ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the first term of office. I asked the Minister to answer the questions put directly, without a more detailed explanation, as we were able to read them in the letter. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'd really like to answer those questions. I actually wanted to do it as follows, namely that I should like to start with the measures and the need to take them. Secondly, I would like to comment on the boosters, third on testing, fourth on the questions that affect care capacity, fifth on the long term and then I have a block with varia, other subjects. Fortunately, Mr Slob is willing to answer all the questions about education, but I do not entirely escape at least one connection, namely the question of "why education?" and whether other measures could not have been taken. This is really about the overall package of measures, and I think I should take them on board. But for the rest, I am going to ask that the questions about education really be left with Mr Slob. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the measures, I cannot ignore the epidemiological picture. You were fully informed this morning by Van Dissel in the technical briefing. The aftertaste of this is right that you are gloomy about it and that you have great concerns about it, which you have just expressed. I'm just gonna go along with that. Just as we started getting delta back a bit under our thumb and we see that all the numbers are falling, in the test streets and fortunately also in the hospitals, we see omikron show up. Potentially, omikron has a large impact in the month of January, February and beyond. That's why we're worried, of course. If we look at what these concerns have to do with, I should like to add something to that, because I can explain better why we are doing what we are doing with regard to the measures taken, but also with regard to the booster. That is especially because you always have to answer a number of things with that new variant. To what extent is the omicron variant more contagious? To what extent does it concern itself with the immunity that has been built up, which we have quite a lot with each other? And to what extent is it also sickening? It is too early to actually answer that last question, but let's not let the first observations comfort us that it is milder. A lot more people who are slightly milder are still putting a lot more pressure on care. So let's not be reassured. Let us be particularly concerned about the much faster spread. It could have something to do with the infection. But it certainly makes so much sense, and actually that is what we see, that it has to do with the extent to which the built-up protection protects sufficiently against this new variant. That is problematic and it has a huge potential impact. What exactly impact do we not know, but at least it means that we need to booster a lot faster. I will explain in this way what we are doing in this area and why we are doing so. I will simply answer all the questions at that point. But it also means that we have no choice but to continue the current package of measures and, in addition, to do what we did not really want to do, namely to ask primary schools if they wanted to close their doors a week earlier. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the questions concerning the measures. First of all, I would like to address Mrs De Vries' question as to why there is no OMT opinion on this omikron variant. The reason is that there really is new information coming every day, of course from southern Africa, but that is not always one-on-one to translate. But what we learn most from is everything that happens in the UK. The UK has relatively few measures, is now reintroducing them, but has so far had relatively few measures. That makes that omicron variant out there much faster. For example, we learn that the Omikron variant duplicates itself every two or three days. For example, what we learn from Denmark, where there are relatively few measures, is no matter how fast it goes there. So it's not just the English situation. The Danish situation is exactly the same, albeit a little later in time. But this one shows the exact same pattern. What we don't know yet is the degree of sickness. You actually need it to do that modulation in a good way. So the concern was expressed, of course, in last Friday's OMT opinion. I think we can all assess what scenarios this worrying development is likely to lead to. To actually advise on what to do now also assumes that you can actually model. More information is really needed for this. Next Friday, the OMT will reconvene. We hope that new research information from the UK will then be available. If that is not the case, I do not think it is out of the question for the OMT to meet again in the middle of next week or at the end of next week. So we're on top of it. The OMT is on top of it. Every day new pieces of information come, which complete the image further. That's just what's gonna happen in the next few weeks. I cannot now name a moment in time when we know enough to outline how the coming months will go. It is really a matter of ten fingers on the wrist every day, tracking all the information and being in contact with the international networks of scientists, to ensure that we have the latest knowledge over and over again. The cabinet could therefore return to your Chamber next week with possible new measures to be taken. We simply have to look at the situation from day to day and, of course, to inform you immediately. The CU asks: will there be rapid and effective research into omikron? Yes, of course. There is a global network under the WTO's flag, but there is also a European network under the ECDC's flag. We look a lot at the UK and a lot at Denmark, but every day of the week we are in contact with all the research networks that are rich in Europe and rich in our world, to involve the latest information in the decision-making process. I can also explain to the booster how quickly that can be done. Then there's the question about the emergency scenarios. I did explain this briefly, because I cannot give any further information on this at the moment. I do think you have a right to know how we are preparing for this. Of course, the latest information relates to the vaccination campaign and the booster campaign. I will also explain the test policy later and the measures we are taking anyway. I also believe that the potential impact of the omikron variant on the potential health burden should be taken into account. So we need to create emergency scenarios for the potential healthcare burden. We've put a club to work to do that, with people from different areas of care, people from Defense and experts. They're going to look at what could possibly be the impact. That is actually a question for RIVM, but if the impact is large, they will mainly consider how you could possibly achieve it. Of course, that's at the beginning, but I also don't want to lose days if we were to get a new advice from the OMT on Friday or next week, reading that the impact is potentially gutter. Then you'd like to have used these days to see what we could do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u3	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u4	I think this is a difficult one. I understand that the Minister does not want to tell us in detail what he intends to do with the emergency scenarios. What I find difficult is that there is talk of emergency scenarios in case there is a very large wave coming. The real emergency scenario I see at the moment is that it is not the wave but the dike that is the problem, namely the boosters, which are being put too slowly. You can wait and see how high the wave is going to be, but the emergency plan should be now: like a madman put as many boosters as possible. That is what I think is the emergency plan that should be put in motion right now. Then it also matters less whether the wave gets a little high or very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u5	Sure, I'm gonna go into that in such detail. I will explain everything we are doing in the field of boostering, and also how we are doing the best we can to speed that up. You are right: the speed of boostering is important, but especially the question of whether everyone shows up. In addition, the question is how we are going to seduce the 11% that still doesn't have the first shot to do so. That combination is the dike. At the same time, it is difficult to say at the moment whether that dike increase and accelerate the building of that dike, or actually the rebuilding of that dike, provides sufficient resistance to the potential wave. That means that you have to do everything at the same time, and in any case boosters at the shortest possible time. Test policy must, of course, be involved in potentially much larger numbers. You will need to take those measures that delay the introduction of the omikron variant and lower the potential wave. And you're gonna have to prepare yourself for what needs to happen when the care capacity is recharged. Of course, we have an upcoming plan that is aligned with the whole area of care. There is also a phase 3: what if the number of patients who need a bed exceeds the number of available beds? So how do we deal with that? But preferably you want to create even more bed capacity if requested. Is there more to be done with maximum creativity just in case? That is why I am reluctant to come up with all sorts of scenarios at this stage because some of them still need to be developed. They were developed in the very first wave last year, but that was in a different situation. These will have to be updated. I want to look again with all the lessons that have been learned from the field of care and with the creativity that there is, at what would be possible by now. That takes time, and that's why I don't want to start just when it's necessary, but I want to start now, not yet knowing if it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u6	You are on the subject of measures, and you are not done with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u7	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u8	I see a number of Members. I will give Mr Hijink an opportunity to ask a question, but perhaps it would be helpful if we could conclude the issue of measures, as you will know if your question has been answered. Otherwise, it's just a shame. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u9	I am afraid that something that we have seen before is going to happen here, namely that there is a very long waiting period, Mrs Kuik made that point quite rightly with milder measures, for example the work that has taken too long at home, for example the package of measures that is now in place, and that we will soon have to shoot back into panic mode because we are not well prepared for what is to come. That's where I care. We are talking about emergency scenarios in case there is a very big wave, while what you can do now and what is always good is not enough. I am, of course, talking about the booster campaign. We are going to talk about this in a moment, but can the Minister promise that this is the emergency scenario we are dealing with, that the boosters are not going fast enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u10	Exactly. This is exactly why you did not hear me say much yesterday about developing those emergency scenarios. That's the homework you have to do anyway. But what's even more important than that is that we do everything we can to prevent that, and that starts with boosters. It has to do with stepping up testing policy, it also has to do with the measures you could take as a precaution in case it comes to that. I'm gonna talk about the care capacity later. I would actually like to go further with the measures that we have to take. Maybe I should go into education briefly first. I have heard the critical sounds, and I would like to put a number of things aside. Let's look back to September and see what developments that virus has been going through, see at what time the epidemiological situation was at issue and what measures we had to take at that time, advised by the OMT, weighted and decided by the Cabinet and endorsed by the Chamber. Then I think at those moments we have taken the measures that were needed at that time, where there was one time that the measures afterwards turned out to be insufficient to actually bring the R back under 1. That was the November 12 package. It took a long time for actual results to become visible. That has brought us, as it turns out, just under one. At the time when we took stock of the question at the end of November, "is this going to be hard enough?', We didn't think it was hard enough. That is why we got past the 24 November package. This has led to a reduction in all figures. In the test streets this is most visible, but fortunately there is also a serious decrease in the number of hospitalisations and even in the occupation. That's the game against delta. We have taken measures in a number of steps when it was necessary. Had it been the case that there was no omikron variant, we would have just been in a decline that would have brought us back below the limit value in the first half of January, as we agreed with each other: the 25 ic intakes per day and 100 hospitalizations per day. Depending on the actual R-value, this would be at the beginning of January or mid-January. That was the cabinet's commitment. In this context, the advice given by the OMT in recent weeks has also been included. It was not until mid November that the Omikron variant was first detected on Dutch soil. In fact, it is only since last week that we are actually beginning to see, perhaps a week earlier, what this will mean in the European context and in the UK. That means that you have to weigh today's figures in a different way. If you didn't know about Omikron, you'd think, "Good, the figures show a decrease, so the measures have an effect. That is exactly what we wanted, because that brings us back below the limit we had set for ourselves." But we do know about omikron. We know of the potential risk of a much faster spread. We don't know so much about the disease-making ability of the virus yet, but we do know about the much faster spread, which has a lot to do with the decreasing vaccine effectiveness. This means that we need to give gas, in particular, to that point. I'm about to explain. However, it also makes it necessary to avoid that there is a catalyst for that new variant somewhere in society. Of course there is also that story about delta and about the very short connection of school week to Christmas dinner. Of course, that has also been an important point of consideration. However, the decisive point in the recital on whether or not schools are closed has been the information that has come to us over the past week and last weekend about the much faster spread. Because every brake you can apply in the introduction of Omikron, slowing down the introduction of Omikron, is probably lowering the wave we're about to face, because it gives us time to actually complete the booster campaign. That is the decisive argument. That also means that I can't go along with the question of whether you should have closed the restaurant two weeks ago, because you wouldn't have to close the schools now. I'm not going along with that, because I don't think you can think about it in that contrast. If we had closed the catering industry two weeks ago, even during the day until 5 p.m., it would not have posed any other problem at the moment with regard to education. By the way, the catering industry is already insanely limited. I think it's one of the most limited sectors during the whole corona crisis. If we had closed the Efteling, non-essential services or all those other places at the moment or in the last few weeks, it would not have allowed us any more room for consideration of education. Those were all decisions with an impact on the delta variant and we are winning that race. It's all going too slowly and the pressure on care is still very high, but we're winning that game. What we need to do is slow down the introduction of the omikron variant. We need to slow that introduction down to lower the wave of later. That is the decisive reason for education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u11	We stopped here for a moment, because there were some interruptions. Mrs Van Esch, Mr Stoffer and Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u12	The Minister says that you cannot weigh one against the other, because that did not have the same effect. But the Minister doesn't know that, because it didn't happen. That's one. Secondly, on 17 November, we said precisely: bring in heavier measures so that you go down faster. In fact, the cabinet had to come back to that later. In the debate after that, around 1 December, we said: take measures faster now, because omikron is coming. It wasn't very clear back then, but we already knew it would get fierce. The cabinet did not choose to do so, while the OMT already advised: close the schools. I am against it, I was against it, but the OMT's advice was already there. So Omikron was already lurking. If you decide to close the schools, then the cabinet should have. In short, we, as well as other parties, have always said: take other measures, because you need to go down faster to reduce the pressure on care and to get back to normal life faster. When Omikron got over it, we all said: now you have to intervene to prevent worse. I just don't agree with this explanation and I hate it, because it happens every time you get back to what didn't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u13	I like to put something wrong with that. I'm going back a few weeks, back to the epidemiological situation a few weeks ago. The decision of 12 November was taken in the context of the moment when action was needed. The Netherlands was then one of the first countries in Europe, except Austria, to take measures to reverse the wave. We have taken measures to do what was necessary to bring the R value back below 1. It took long, too long, before the bend was made. The bend wasn't made sharp enough, so that drop wasn't sharp enough. That meant we put a new package over it two weeks later. Can you say with retroactive effect: then apparently you haven't done enough on the 12th? We didn't really know that when we put the new package on top of it. That's for starters. But still that's the game against delta, and that's the game we're winning. That is the sum of the measures of 12 November and the measures of 24 November. We're definitely winning that game. The R-value is well below 1. The descent has started. If Omikron hadn't made it, we'd be winning the game against delta. The point is, we do have omikron. We do not yet know in what potential that is going to burden our care again and what wave that is going to give us again. What we do see is that about 20% of all infections are currently taking place in primary school age. That's just what we see in the test streets. That means that, if you let this go on, just before this week, this is potentially a catalyst for the introduction of omikron. And that at a stage in which we have indeed boosted the 60-plussers around the turn of the year, but not many other people yet. We know that there is decreasing vaccine effectiveness and we also know that we still have not vaccinated 11% of people. That is why we say: taking the safety of the insecure is now the consideration of closing the schools. The OMT has advised on this a number of times, by the way, in the context of delta. But now, in the context of omikron, the argument for this has only become stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u14	What the cabinet does is rewrite history afterwards. In the first package, we said, and a number of other parties, it is not enough to bring it down quickly. That is also apparent, even with delta, because it takes until January, without omikron, to get enough under the R to get the infections and hospitalizations back to a level that is bearable. That's correct. That is therefore longer than the three weeks originally announced. The cabinet has also partly recognised this by coming up with a heavier package. That was phase two. But then Omikron was born and we also said here in the Chamber: you need to intervene harder, because Omikron is coming. The cabinet did not choose to do so, except for an extension of the package. I didn't make that harder intervention because I like tough measures, but because there were already noises from abroad, from Israel, from the UK, from Danish studies and from experts in the Netherlands who said: if this is the case, you need to intervene harder now to prevent it. The cabinet didn't choose that. Then the OMT advised us to shut down the schools. I was against it. I would have preferred a harder lockdown in other areas, but at least it would have been worth considering. Why am I making such a big deal about this? That's because this has been happening for two years. Afterwards, there is reason why no decision was made at the time, supposedly because you had no choice. No, you didn't have to. Foreign countries showed that, experts in the Netherlands showed that and there are also MPs who have asked for it. That's just been ignored and it's been happening for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u15	Speaking of rewriting history, this is really not right. It's just not the right representation of the facts. Perhaps it is also really good to listen back to those debates and then take a good look at what the input has been at those moments. What matters is the context of that moment. In that context, you are advised by the Outbreak Management Team. Then you have that advice, which has been made from an epidemiological perspective, to weigh in the context of other societal interests. You want to get the virus underneath, but you want to avoid unnecessary measures affecting society, affecting the economy, because people also have a right to proportionate policies. In fact, that's an assignment from the Twm, from the temporary law, the proportionality. So we try to do that as a cabinet and use different perspectives when weighing. That's why you're not just going to take all those measures that you know are slowing down the virus, but also the development of children or the development of the economy. You can't just do that. You always have to do it proportionately, and we answer for it. In the letters, in the debates and in the press conferences, we are accountable. What I maintain is that, in the context of that moment, we have taken decisions that are in line with the advice of the OMT. I can tell all over again from the summer why we did what we did, at that time in the context of that moment, and also why we didn't do things that you would say afterwards: if we did, it might have led to a different outcome. You never make the decisions with the knowledge of afterwards at the time and you still have a balance to make. In short, when it comes to November 12th, we did what the Outbreak Management Team advised us to do. When it comes to November 22, we did what the Outbreak Management Team advised us to do. At that time we did not see the effect of the package of 12 November. In that context, it was illogical to close all the schools then. Would it have helped us now? No doubt. Did we want to? No, because education is incredibly important, and that must be the very last option.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u17	I note that the cabinet still has a lot of trouble looking back, leaving it to learn and to look forward, with all the consequences for the entrepreneurs who have to muddle through until spring and for schools and pupils who are now once again faced with school closures. The number of infections is still irresponsiblely high. Care is still being scaled down everywhere, up to the general practitioner's care and GGZ care. The only thing the cabinet answers is "no, in the context of the models we got then we did the right thing," while experiences and information from abroad and inland said: take it differently. I find that disappointing. I will have to do it with this, because I only have a limited number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u18	A word of response, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yeah, but a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yeah, but still. A strong point is being made here, namely: has the government taken the decisions that were logical in the light of the epidemiological situation at the time, at the time, the various decision-making moments, in recent months, including in the political balance that you always have with regard to what measures have social and economic effects? I insist that we did. I can also see that on the 12th we took a package of measures that made that turn too slowly. Well, Mrs. Kuik says: I have sometimes argued for the closure of the catering industry, even during the day, and I did so on the 22nd. But if we had, wouldn't that have given us a slower introduction of omikron to the schools? That is why I insist that the package of measures we now have is working against delta. We're starting to get delta under our thumb. We don't know if it's enough against omikron. What we do see is a large number of infections. We assess them in the context of wanting to slow down the introduction of omikron. That is why we had to make the decision about education after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u21	I will not do this as a fourth interruption, but as a point of order. I said that a week earlier. I repeated that in the debate that followed and then Omikron was already in play. The first one was about: do it faster, because you have to go down harder to prevent you from muddling until spring. That was debate one. In debate two, Omikron was already in play, and then we said: now you have to step up, or else you will find yourself in a situation that we find undesirable. When it was argued for faster boosters, it was still about delta. Omikron got over that later. But don't confuse those facts either. We have in the first instance really acted on the basis of delta and in the second instance on the basis of omikron. Indeed, the heavier package had already been announced at the second debate we had at that time. We knew this was gonna get really intense back then. We still don't know to what extent. But we knew it was coming, we really knew it was coming in the debate we had then. There were also motions for resolutions on this at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you. I give the floor first to Mr Stoffer and then to Mrs Van Esch, Mrs De Vries and Mrs Westerveld. I would like to ask Members, but also the Minister, not to repeat too much. After all, I hear a number of repeats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u23	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. This morning we talked to Mr Van Dissel about the omikron variant. I also appreciate him very much; that may be said at some point. We spoke in particular about the fact that vaccinations and through infections do not do too much for that omikron variant. In light of that, I also asked a question about the coronapas. I'm not interested in the coronapas an sich. That's what the minister and I are thinking about, but it's about the fact that if you think you're gonna sit somewhere safe with a coronapas, it could be that you're spreading that omikron variant deliciously. Mr Van Dissel indicated that they would come back to that on Friday. My question to the Minister is whether he also sees the urgency of taking measures, perhaps very soon, to prevent us from thinking safe with the corona pass, but in the meantime spreading a lot. I just asked that question, but I haven't gotten an answer yet. So could the minister go into that? I'm on the wrong block, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u24	The Minister was also not ready to answer all the questions surrounding measures. But perhaps the Minister can take this question out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u25	On the contrary. I'm gonna take these out for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u26	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u27	I will come back later on to all possible applications of the corona admission ticket, also in the light of: how do we want to get through winter as open and safe as possible in the second half of this winter? On these corona tickets, I say: we will really have to weigh that again in the light of the reduction in the inhibition of vaccines by lifting on transmission and on infection. So at the moment, the protection of vaccines against infection should be seen as low, at least in the omikron variant. However, that is very much repaired by the booster. In that light, I think we should simply weigh applications of the corona tickets. By the way, I would like to say that at the moment there are placements and 1.5 metres everywhere, including in the sectors where the corona ticket is used. If we were to go back to opening up society much further with the use of the corona tickets, we would have to restore the level of protection provided by vaccines. I am convinced that we need those corona tickets, just to get through the second half of the winter as openly as possible. But Mr Stoffer is quite right: we must first restore adequate levels of protection by vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thanks for the answer. In itself, that was a good response. My image and my experience in the past week or two weeks are that you're just sitting close together with a corona ticket in a restaurant and the like. Sometimes that feels a little uncomfortable, but it all happens. I have the impression that if you're not careful, we'll be spreading very quickly. So my question is: should we not reconsider this in the very short term? Because the Minister does say that with the evidence you have to keep the placement and the 1.5 meter, but that is not happening in practice in many places at the moment. I do not know whether that happens consciously or unconsciously, but that is how I experience it in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u29	The implications of omikron based on the current observations will be weighed again in the OMT opinion on Friday. Then, on that basis, we will look at what we have to do in decision-making. I am merely explaining that at the moment very few sectors could actually do anything with the application of these corona tickets, so coming together in really large groups. You might actually want to do that again in the second half of this winter on the basis of the 2G corona tickets. But before you can actually use it, the protection will have to be restored. For that, of course, we are accelerating the booster campaign. We do this not only for that, but also for protection. I think that's necessary before you can actually re-use the 2G corona pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u30	Yeah, we'll talk about 2G later. It's actually the practice that matters to me. I'm a little freaked out about this. 'Cause what if I had Omikron and I had my corona ticket to dinner every day for the next few days, with Jan and alleman. Then I could infect a lot of people. There's gonna be some advice on Friday. But isn't the suffering already happening if we wait another week or a week and a half before we might take another measure, if it were necessary? My question is therefore: does the Minister understand its urgency? And does he realize that we shouldn't wait too long, please? Because the activities may not be large-scale, but if everyone does a lot of things, I think the number of infections can become booming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u31	No. At the moment, we have incredibly limited the number of contacts. The catering business? Yeah, you get there sometimes, 'cause you've been eating in that restaurant lately. That is also fantastic; on behalf of the catering industry, I would like to thank you very much for that. But I am curious when you will have done so, because the catering industry is closed from 5 p.m. to 5 p.m. So at the moment there are very few activities taking place in the catering industry. And when the people go in there, they have to show a corona pass and they're being replaced. So there's not that much going on in the hospitality business right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u32	To disprove the image: I go not every day, but twice within the time frame of this week, just in the afternoon. Then you're very close with the people you eat with. If we keep doing that for another week and a half, it could go very well. Mr Van Dissel also recognized that this morning. So actually my question is: see the urgency and please act as quickly as possible. Otherwise we think about a week, a week and a half: we would have acted sooner. If the Minister sees it completely differently, fine, but I think, if you're within that 1.5 meters of each other, and that happens, not between 5:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m., but right at those other times... and it's full, you know. Those restaurants are just pretty full. I'll give you those restaurants. It's okay. But I think there's a potential source here for a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u33	On Friday, the weighing up of new measures will be necessary. At present very, very, very restrictive measures are already in place. We have about the strictest regime in Europe right now. I am always prepared to take additional measures if necessary, of course, if the OMT advises us to do so, certainly because of this new variant, but at the moment about the strictest measures are already in place throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u34	I'm gonna try again anyway. Part of the Chamber calls on us to look now at heavier measures that may be needed, because at least a whole part of the Chamber concludes that we have been constantly behind the facts over the last two years. In my view, the signal here is so clear: let us try to avoid this error over the last two years with the omikron variant, where we see that the risks increase. Then I think it's special that we should wait for the OMT opinion and say, "We're going to go on evidence-based." We'll take precautions for schools. I do not understand why, because it can be so dangerous, we are discussing other measures with each other here in the Chamber today at least. I'm curious about that. Why don't we discuss them? Why are we not talking today about the possible closure of hotels or amusement parks? We should really talk about that today, because we are about to see that we have to talk about it again too late next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u35	However, I want to be careful of the picture that we did not take the necessary measures immediately when the new Omikron variant was on Dutch soil. Immediately we took the travel measures, overnight. There was a lot to do in the implementation, but in the heaviness it was the toughest measure of the whole of Europe; immediately. The second is that, on the basis of last week's OMT opinion, but also this week's OMT opinion, we immediately did all the things that the OMT, the experts, said to us: you should really want to do that. At present, in a European perspective, about the toughest package of measures in the Netherlands compared to about all other countries. Austria has put more effort into it, but it had also gotten completely out of hand, but the Netherlands still has heavy measures. A few weeks ago there was still a lot of criticism from the Belgian minister: 'jojo policy' and 'new measures in the Netherlands'. In the meantime, he would have liked him to have taken the same measures we took a few weeks ago. Because that's what makes us turn the numbers down. At the moment, the UK does not even have the measures we have, while they have a much bigger problem than in the Netherlands. In short, I really want to combat the image that no firm measures would have been taken in the Netherlands. Ask the cultural sector and the catering sector, who see how hard these measures are. At the moment you are closed after 5:00 p.m. You're welcome to meet people before 5:00. Anyway, most people work for 5:00. So that means a lot less business. The people who do come must show a CTB, are then replaced and must sit at 1.5 meters. That's what needs to be done. Mr Stoffer has been on occasions where the mayor apparently should have maintained better, but this is something to be desired. So I would like to emphasise that there is a very robust package of measures in the sum total.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u36	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u37	Are we willing to do more? Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u38	I would, however, like to take away the idea that it is not already difficult and that we would all like to take even heavier measures here. In my view, several political parties have mentioned here that it is special that we should close the schools as a precautionary measure, which is clearly indicated because of the omikron variant, when we had agreed to close them again here. We say, as a precaution, we close it. But when we look at other sectors, we see that they are open during the day. That's what we've already reported here. For example, amusement parks, shops and IKEA. We can still go shopping with each other on the upcoming Christmas break, which is gonna take even longer. I do not see why we are closing down schools as a precautionary measure and taking other measures that are also heavy. A school closure is already very heavy, but other sectors say: but we have already taken very strong measures. That is true, but I do not understand why we are not debating these other important precautions today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thank you. That's a clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u40	I have just explained some of this, but let me explain it in a different way. All the measures we have taken so far, we take to win the game against delta. We're winning. If the decline continues in this way, then in the first half of January we will again be below the limit we had said: we must want to stay below it in those stages of recovery. We're winning that game. Why are we closing the schools? That is what we are doing, in particular, and there are several arguments; Minister Slob will be addressing them in this way, so that we have enough time to ensure that the competition against omikron is still in place through boosters. We can see that there is a huge reduction in the protection of vaccines and therefore a huge need to speed up the booster campaign. You just need the time until the second half of January. It's no different. So you have to do that at a stage where omikron doesn't make up such an incredible proportion of the infections. Would you just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u42	I have one last sentence, Mr. Chairman. We need to get this right. Could you, with the closure of cafes during the day, partially prevent the infections we see at the primary schools at the moment? No, of course not, even if we did that two weeks ago. In short, these two games cannot be compared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mrs De Vries of the VVD is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u44	I understand that we cannot foresee everything and that we sometimes think afterwards: if only we had taken measures at some point. I also think it is commendable that the cabinet wants to keep the schools open for as long as possible. The question is: The last time we talked about this, there was an OMT recommendation to extend Christmas holidays. Even then there was already more known about omikron and it was known that that variant would probably be much more contagious. The question is: why was that decision not taken before? Because then there would have been much more preparation time for the parents, the children and the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u45	That's true. On the other hand, it may not have been necessary to win the game against delta. If things aren't necessarily necessary, then you shouldn't do more than you need to, just because you know you're slowing down the virus, just as a precaution. You also know that when you close the schools, you slow down the development of children. This was the last time we could make that decision. Otherwise, there was indeed insufficient opportunity to actually do what we wanted. This was the last time we could make that decision. That is why we have now taken that decision. That's what we argued last time. We didn't want to make that decision until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u46	Nor am I in favour of taking all kinds of measures when we are not sure whether it is necessary. Only, of course, there was an opinion. Then my question to the Minister is: if he had to decide again with the knowledge of today, would he rather take the decision to extend the Christmas holiday?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u47	But you can never do that again. That's more like it in this crisis, isn't it? Last week we didn't have the knowledge of today. This week we do have the knowledge of today. So you couldn't have made that decision last week, with the knowledge of that time, because you knew you'd have to take it a week later. You can't do that, because then you're sure you're always at great risk of taking disproportionate decisions. It is precisely the task of proportionality that means not only taking the right decisions, but also taking the right decisions at the right time. The good time to make a decision about the last week before Christmas is the last moment at which that can be done. And the last time I could do that was Tuesday, not last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u48	The minister's talking about winning the game against delta. He's acting like we're watching a sports game together where we have to face a very erratic opponent. But of course it isn't. We are competing against a virus that has been in this country for 21 months, which is becoming more and more known, whose course of events is being better predicted and against which we are indeed taking action, but always too late. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he agrees with me. Does he recognise that we do have a heavy package, but that might have been avoided if we had taken measures earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u49	No, I don't agree with you. I have told you more often when we have taken what measures since September and why we have taken what measures at any time, including in the context of the advice given at that time. I do not share the view that we have taken measures too late in recent months; quite the contrary. I think we have taken those measures at all times that made sense at the time. There was one moment, the 12th, when it took too long for us to actually make the turn. That is why it was necessary to take additional measures two weeks later, when we had not even been able to see the full effect. Then you can always say afterwards: shouldn't you have taken heavier measures on the 12th? You don't know that until after. We have a duty to take seriously the proportionality which is also enshrined in the law, namely not to unduly restrict all kinds of rights. It's quite a violation of property rights, for example, to just close down the catering industry, so you shouldn't just do that. That's what you have to do when you actually need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u50	But very far-reaching measures can of course be avoided when you act on them in good time. That is perhaps also the dilemma of the advice we receive. They have been asked: the cabinet asks the OMT a number of questions and there comes an answer to that. If we find together here that we are not the best boy in the class, but the worst boy in the class, is it not time to get more unsolicited advice after 21 months? In this way you might be better prepared for the waves that are coming, because of course there is a good chance that there will be another variant after Omikron. Then we do not want all kinds of far-reaching decisions to be taken at the very last minute because we were not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u51	The OMT also advises unsolicited. The OMT definitely doesn't work demand-driven. The OMT is free to give us advice every day, at any time and with any unpleasant content. The OMT is completely independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr. Chairman. The measure for education is, of course, the toughest in the whole package of measures. Mr Slob will discuss this in a moment. With all due respect, I would like to speed up the smaller issues in the package of measures. Then we go to boosters, because that is also a big and important subject. The answer to the question about outdoor sports is no. We have deliberately chosen not to expand that for a moment, however annoying it may be. This package runs until 14 January. We need to see what's possible. We really have to limit all the contact moments with each other as much as possible and it is not appropriate to say: well, let's see a corner there. It's just a clear package, a predictable package and a continuation of the current package, with just a real lockdown from 5:00 to 5:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u54	Kids haven't been to school in a week, so that's very incriminating for the kids because they miss a lot, as well as for parents. In any case, it would be nice if the Minister could explain to everyone why outdoor sports is really not possible, because this affects a lot of people very much and certainly small, young children. So I'm talking about young children in outdoor sports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u55	There can be a lot between 5am and 5pm, and certainly during the Christmas holidays there can be a lot. Then parents and children still have a little more time, even for each other. Children therefore have a bit more time to exercise amongst themselves. So there's a lot going on outside. There can really be anything outside, even in association. But we're not going to torment that nightlockdown, because that means more contacts and more contacts is more potential infections. Right now, we shouldn't. Mrs De Vries asked if the urgent opinion on working at home would be given more attention. The answer is yes, thank God. We can really see that. We see this very strongly in the OV, but we also see that in the behavioral studies. The number of people working at home has increased from 53% to 66.5% over a month, from the end of October to the end of November. We can see that percentage rising even further after that. So people want to keep to all restrictions, no matter how annoying that may be. Then, Mr President, let me look at my answers, because I have already been able to answer a number of questions in between, which I no longer have to answer. I think it's best I go right to the boosters... Oh no, excuse me, I still have a few questions left. Yeah, those are questions about the travel measures. I'm just gonna do that in the block of measures. The Party for Animals asks if the Netherlands is willing to take independent measures regarding travel. Well, prepare, on its own, but it doesn't make any sense. That is why I said that we really need to work together at European level. The internal borders are, of course, as open as what, so if we want to stop the virus, then it really has to be at the external borders. So you really need to do that together. By the way, I say "stop the virus" with a lot of relativization, because it doesn't work. That's what we learned. Travelling and strict travel measures actually stop things to a very limited extent. Then the test obligation upon arrival. I said in the letter that I want to see it. We have a double test obligation on the departure side, so we already have a test obligation, an actual obligation, for very high risk countries with a VOC, a variant or group. That makes us one of the strictest countries in Europe at the moment. Upon arrival, the test will be carried out for research purposes, as there is no additional scope for action. People should be quarantined anyway; there is a quarantine obligation to be maintained. So that test is now more for research purposes, where you're actually looking at how effective the test is on the other side. Well, we still see a number of positive cases, so there are still some slipping through. The question is whether that gives sufficient legitimacy to reach an obligation. Indeed, an invasive test is an infringement of Article 11 of the Constitution. You have to be able to justify that. The question is whether this is sufficiently justified at the moment, because there is no additional perspective for action. That is the legal weighting at the moment. Nevertheless, I am preparing a legislative process in order to explore further the possibilities in the toolbox. At the moment, there are no such possibilities for an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u56	I would like to hear a few more specific deadlines. 'Cause I specifically asked, is there a bit of progress in this case? What's going on in Europe? I know we're not gonna stop the Omikron variant anymore. Our questions were also meant to be more like this: go to Europe and see how you can make a better plan and act faster in future. I feel that things in Europe do not always go as fast, I say in all honesty. This would perhaps be a subject where I want to see progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u57	I understand that very well. I would also like to see this speeded up. That's why I was in Brussels last week. But that has not yet led to the decision-making that I wanted, namely a test obligation for all third-country nationals to Europe. That's what I wanted. I'd rather have a PCR test, too. I have not yet seen a unanimous statement by my colleagues on this issue. That's not done, but it's not done yet. In addition, I think we need to look closely at domestic traffic, where I hope we can continue to do so with a DCC, and then with a DCC that actually says something about protection. It is therefore necessary to tighten the deadlines with regard to the extent to which vaccination actually provides protection. This means that, according to the current European proposal, we should set the deadline for those nine months. But I can't completely escape the impression that the new reality with Omikron also means that perhaps a little tighter will be operated on. That needs to be made clear this week, next week. As soon as we get that clear, I'll let you know. But my commitment is always to work together at European level. The Netherlands alone doesn't stop that virus at the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u58	I just have a question about the progress of the Schiphol Roadmap. Maybe you'll come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u59	Yeah, I'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u60	Okay, I think that question was part of the travel part, too. But then I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u61	I had it assigned to varia myself. I thought that was appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u62	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u63	We don't count that interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u64	I'm going to the boosters. We're accelerating the booster campaign considerably. We do, because we see at omikron that the protection decreases very significantly. In fact, we do not know enough about the protection against hospitalization. But we do see that the protection against infection is declining considerably, in a way that is very worrying. That means that the booster campaign now has a different function than it had. Previously, we had to restore protection against hospitalisations, re-establish the decreased percentage. But here we see that the protection against infection has fallen so much, that it is not enough to stop that wave. Because we can't do that, that booster campaign needs to be done very quickly and scaled up to the maximum. If we do that, we must hope that the protection against infection will be restored to the level that we can withstand that wave. Then what are we most concerned about? This is always about the elderly who, despite vaccination, can still be hospitalized, because protection does not provide adequate effective protection against serious infection or hospitalisation. That's part of it. For the rest, of course, there is the speed with which people who have not been vaccinated are going to get sick. We know that we still have quite a number of hospitalisations to expect from that group. 11% of people have not been vaccinated at the moment. You can say: that is a fantastic achievement; we are at a vaccination rate of 89%. But it's still 11%, of which we're still expecting quite a few hospitalizations in the group 18-plus. So that makes that there is every reason and also a new reason to speed up the booster campaign. So that's what we're doing. That allowed all 60-plussers who had their last shot more than six months ago to make an appointment until yesterday. And of those six months, we wanted to make three months. Six months is optimal from an individual protection, but for the sake of collective interest, three months is really preferable at the moment. We have adjusted the deadline and that means that the next few days will be the people of 60 years and older who are between three and six months old. Then we'll continue with the people under 60. That's so fast that I expect all people aged 45 and over to have the opportunity to make an appointment before Christmas. I am convinced that the majority of people aged 60 and over have been boosted before the turn of the year. That means that we've had the people who have had their shot the longest ago and the people who need the most protection because they also have the most risk of hospitalization before the turn of the year. In my opinion, we will eventually be working until the second half of January to actually complete that booster campaign for all 18-plussers. That means we have to scale up to the maximum. There are 140 locations and more than 1 million pricks per week. That means we really need everyone's commitment to take care of that scaling up. But with that we are ready in the second half of January. That would be a fantastic achievement, but I have every confidence that the GDs are going to do it by working incredibly hard, with a lot of blood, sweat and tears and with the help of a lot of people. I'm sure that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u65	Have you answered all the questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u66	No, definitely not. I've made a start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u67	A start. I give the floor to Mrs Agema, then to Mr Van Houwelingen and then to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u68	Due to the late booster campaign there is a grey veil over sinterklaas, the formula 1-final, Christmas, old and new. I really blame the Minister for that. I keep hearing the minister say when who is invited, but every time I open my inbox, there are dozens of responses from people who say: I call the phone number, but I can't get anyone; I mail, I go to a website, but it doesn't work. When I say to 70 people in my neighborhood "go call, get it for yourself," they say: they're just not reachable. When it comes to the Minister's good intentions, of course, it is also when he has completed the booster campaign for the 60-plussers. Does the Minister have a visual on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u69	I think that gross mode could have been anyone from 60-plus who had his last appointment more than three months ago before the turn of the year. That's the result. I just want to say one thing about the "too late." I do not share Mrs Agema's remarks. I would have liked to have started earlier. I explained that last time. But you can't say that we wouldn't have had to take the measures we need now to stop that wave if we had started that booster campaign earlier. You can't say that way. Why did we start that booster campaign? In order to restore the decreasing immunity against hospitalisation that is visible in the elderly. And then everything else. Where did the urgency come from last time to come up with a booster offensive to speed it up? Because we saw that wave going up much harder than we thought possible a few months ago. Where does the urgency come from in order to achieve an enormous acceleration in that booster campaign? That has everything to do with the omikron variant, which we see has greatly reduced vaccine effectiveness at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u70	The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u71	That's really another reason to go into boosters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mrs Agema also asked a question about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u73	That is indeed a very different reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u74	I just wanted to help you. The accessibility was also a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u75	Yeah, that's a good point. The GGD is doing everything it can to open new locations, to open new puncture lines at those locations, to man those puncture lines so intensively that there is even more production between quotes; an ugly word.... at those vaccination sites can be turned. This means that every time that enlargement has been achieved, the regional GGD's and new prick slots report to the rural center. This means that every day new slot slots are available in regions. Where it could be now that if everyone makes an appointment, it can take a few weeks before your turn, there is every day the opportunity to make new appointments with new lock slots. That continues for a while, because the number of lock slots per week is hugely scaled up. In short, there will always be new lock slots available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u76	What I can very much praise the outgoing minister for is his incessant knowledge of the file. But sometimes some unclear answers come out. Do I understand correctly that the Minister here says that by January 1st, all 60-plussers have had their booster shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u77	I'm sorry for the answer. I can't say yes to that, because some people don't make that appointment because they don't want to be vaccinated at all. That's one. Two. We now see that the 80-plussers have now passed the 80% of the number of people who really want a booster shot. Over the whole group, this is really even lower, between 65% and 70%. I want everyone to get that booster shot. Did all the people get that booster shot? I don't know. Have all the people who are able to come to a puncture site had the opportunity to get the booster shot? Of that I dare say that it must succeed before the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u78	I hear the Minister in the debate very conveniently moving from 'booster campaign' to 'we do that for the omikron variant'. He said I couldn't say he was late for the booster campaign. I don't think the minister can say he was on time either. It was Mr Kuipers who, not with the previous one, but with the previous technical briefing, started on the Israeli investigation which showed that the risk of hospitalization, immediately after the booster vaccination in Israel, was 19 and a half times smaller. He started talking about it then, and he started talking about it again two weeks ago. If that booster campaign had been done in the autumn, we would have heard this again today from Kuipers and Van Dissel.It would have simply led to hundreds less people in the hospital. And then we wouldn't have had such a huge overload on the hospitals. On Monday I heard Mr Gommers at Op1 almost say in tears that he had to call all day for an ic-bed and that it almost didn't work out. I would like to hear a little recognition from the Minister that this is still balancing on the edge of the volcano of code black. And that that really shouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u79	I would like to say a few things about that. The first is that I said last time in the debate in the Chamber, so I am not saying anything new that I would have liked to start the booster campaign earlier. Looking at the scenario in which we have now arrived, it would have been wise to do so earlier. At the same time, I do not agree with the reasoning that the pressure on care would have been substantially different. Most of the people who are now on the ic are still unvaccinated, some 70%. And 50% of the total number of people in hospitals is unvaccinated. You're not helping with a booster campaign. Of the other people, the vaccinees, you can say that it is a lot of elderly people with a lot of comorbidity, of which a large proportion do not respond well to vaccines anyway. The vaccines have little protective effect at all in them. The other part is often extremely weak and fragile due to co-morbidity. In short, it is difficult to say to what extent it had actually led to a reduced pressure on care, but the idea that you could have boosted the delta wave is really an illusion. This can also be seen if you compare the Dutch situation with the situation in countries around us. In countries that had already started the booster campaign a little earlier, Germany and Belgium, you see a very similar situation in healthcare. In all these countries, the pressure on care is very strong. I do not think that you can defend the argument that the pressure on care because of that delta wave would have been substantially different now if you had wanted to do that booster campaign earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u80	It is very unfortunate that I now have to devote a fourth interruption to this. The Minister brings in all sorts of things, but of course it's about the unvaccinated. They haven't been vaccinated. Of the 2,800 people in the hospital, 1,400 are fully vaccinated. This was already the subject of Mr Kuipers' comment in the previous technical briefing. That's what Israel's report was about. That group could have been so much smaller. Of course, the Israeli investigation cannot be transferred one-on-one, but less than 100 people from that group would have been fully vaccinated in the hospital. I dare say that, as Mr Kuipers and Mr Van Dissel say, it would have been hundreds less. If it had been hundreds less, it would have been no less unvaccinated, but there would have been hundreds less who had been fully vaccinated. I would like to see a bit of recognition, including for Israeli scientific research, that it would have given it a different situation and that the booster campaign could have reduced a lot of suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u81	I don't rule out the possibility that you could have avoided recording. I'm just saying that it's hard to tell how many there would be. I'm also saying you couldn't have stopped the wave with that. That is sometimes thought and hoped. If we had started boostering earlier, for example, would we not have to take the measures? No, it's not. If you look at other countries where you started the booster earlier, you see a similar development in hospitals. I don't think you can put it that way. I've asked the Health Council to reflect on the Israeli investigation. And there too, in their defence, of the Health Council: we have been advised and we have followed the advice of the Health Council. In September, from the observation that there has been little or no reduction in vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation, we were advised not to start with the booster. As of mid-October, we asked: "Would you like to look at that again? Because we think we can see that the first percentage is visible in the reduction in vaccine effectiveness." At that time, the advice was given on 2 November to launch the booster campaign. It started on November 18th. You should always be careful with this type of reflection that there is no Hindsight bias. I have looked back on all these debates very carefully and the first time you made a firm plea was on 3 November. I am also grateful for that plea for boosters, because that is certainly an incredibly important plea in the direction of your constituents. I support that, but let us not pretend that here in the Chamber there was a broad feeling that you should have started that booster campaign much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you. Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy, then Mrs Bikker and then Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u83	It's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u84	I'd like to use the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u85	I'd like to record for my colleagues. During the Janssen debate, Mr Paternotte mentioned boosters. That was the famous moment when there was discussion and a motion was tabled. We've come back to it repeatedly since September. So it's actually not true. There was a concrete motion on 3 November, but the discussion started from August. That makes it so difficult in the debate, because every time we say something, the cabinet says: it is not. And then that's the last word. But not everything the cabinet says is consistent with how it actually happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u86	We did indeed talk about boosters in September. The motion tabled at that time by a series of political groups on the left said: do not start with boosters. That was the motion that was tabled at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u87	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u88	The debate on boosters followed the advice of the Health Council. I would just add that the moment when the PVV made a plea for boosters was on 3 November, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mrs. Chicken. You'll get a chance to say something, but you'll get it in the microphone, so everyone can hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u90	I know exactly which parties did and did not do what. I can answer for what I have supported or not supported and what judgment I have given. I would just like to point out that the debate has been going on since August and that a motion was actually tabled in November, also because we knew then that boosters were needed to defeat delta. That's when the cabinet didn't act on it. Three acceleration plans were then submitted to increase the range of action. It would be so, so nice if the cabinet would just stick to the facts and sometimes put their hands into its own bosom. We're gonna do that. I'd really like to answer for that if I stood there. It would be so nice if the cabinet did that once. That that does not happen irritates me to a great extent, because the interests are too great. That certainly applies when we have to talk about Omikron next week. Then we won't be able to use any more egos. Then we're gonna have to talk very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you. I would also like to give Mrs Agema the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u92	It is very difficult indeed. The government rules and the Chamber controls. In this case, the government has not ruled. On November 3rd I was in my controlling role. The Minister could say: you knew that. We've also spent a year and a half on ventilation. That's only now. The government rules and then comes the Chamber. In November, the Chamber asked, "Why don't you do that?" By now, it's the end of December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'd like to make a mistake anyway. I think I started last time by saying that I liked to start with the booster earlier. I think I started my answer by saying: yes, I would have liked to start with that booster earlier. That is the reflection on my part. My reflection on the course of decision-making was last time and is also as follows this time. I can only conclude that both the advice and the policy choices made by the cabinet on the basis of this advice, for which the cabinet is responsible, at the time, at the beginning of the autumn, did not take sufficient account of the scenario in which we have now arrived. I would add one thing to that, which I think also requires some reflection, but more from the Chamber. That is that the discussion has always taken place under a different guise. Just after the summer, this discussion was about whether we should actually do this: is this actually the time, and should we not want to donate much more? That's part of the discussion. It was only later that the discussion came to its conclusion whether it could not be done much faster. The wish to speed up has been discussed here in the Chamber from the beginning of November.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mrs. Westerveld. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u95	I would like to make a point of order. This is always about a motion which I have tabled together with, I believe, Mrs Bikker. That was in the summer. It indicates that vaccination rates in some low-income countries are 1.5%. The World Health Organization would come up with an opinion. In the motion, we are not asking for the whole booster campaign to be suspended. We ask for the advice of the World Health Organisation to wait before we embark on a major booster campaign, because people in a very large part of the world have not yet been vaccinated. Those advices were supposed to come a few weeks later. That was the motion. So it did not ask for any boosters at all, or for the booster campaign to be completely suspended. Besides, this was last summer. At that time, very little was known about the fact that the effectiveness of vaccines would decrease. The motion didn't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u96	That motion didn't make it. I still think the motion brought another operative on the mat. That's one. Two. The WTO's call at that time was not to start boostering, with even very strong qualifications. Boostering would be immoral, and that kind of lyrics. That was the discourse at the time. This isn't a reproach. On the contrary. It is only the observation that as time passes the discourse can change, because the context in which you enter the discussion changes. That is also true on the cabinet side. That's what I'm saying. In my reflection, I say that the opinions, but also the policy choices made on the basis of those opinions, did not take sufficient account of the scenario in which we are now. But I would also like to outline how the debate in the Chamber took place last autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you. You made your point of order. Mr Van Houwelingen has been standing here for a while. He'd like to say something, too. It is my impression that the Minister sometimes sounds a little reproachful. I do not know whether this is the intention of the Minister, but every time it calls for a reaction to be referred to motions that have been tabled before, or to something that Mrs Agema said in November. Let's watch out for that. Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u98	The Minister is fully committed to the booster campaign. I think he has a lot of support for that here in the Chamber. More and more is known about the side effects associated with vaccinations. For example, Mr Ronald Master of the Vrije Universiteit recently completed a study showing that there is a risk of direct mortality, especially in elderly people between 65 and 80 years old. This week in the podcast De Nieuwe Wereld, Theo Schetters.................................................................................................................................................. So there's a 1 in 3,000 chance of dying, even as an elderly person, after the injection. The Minister is now fully committed to the booster campaign. So my question to the Minister is: is there any mention of these side effects in the context of informed consent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u99	Of course, attention is paid to side effects. But still, with your quotes too, I have listened carefully to your input just now, I think... Look, we need vaccines incredibly. We are currently under a great deal of pressure from people who have not been vaccinated. That's what we know and what we see every day in hospitals. We are on the eve of an omikron wave, which can potentially be very harmful and has a huge burden of care. We can only turn it back, or we can only prevent it, if we speed up that booster campaign very much. But in doing so, we depend on the willingness of people to be pricked. I'm worried about two groups. One group is the 11% that has not yet been vaccinated and that we have to convince in the next few days or weeks. The other group is formed by the people who think: I got the first two shots; that should be enough. So that group doesn't get a booster shot. That group is really not sufficiently protected. What I find so sad, especially after almost two years of crisis, is that we have to work incredibly hard to overcome all these doubts. I have the idea that what Forum for Democracy does, time and time again, is organising a crosswind, organizing a headwind, to get those people out of their doubts. All the disinformation you disseminate, sometimes even here in the Chamber, is simply cause for doubt for some people. That doubt just leads to hospitalizations. That's just what we see. That's really what you need to care about. That is why I would like to ask you to stop doing so. That is not your job as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u100	This is a pity, because I cannot get a clear answer to my question. By the way, I just gave a quote from an immunologist. Apparently, you think that's disinformation, too. The question is very simple. That is what I was talking about. I also referred to Japan as an example. What does the Minister do to inform people properly? It's very concrete. Do they get those risks on paper when they get a booster? What is the Minister doing in the context of informed consent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u101	I think all the side effects are really very well known everywhere. All information can be found on coronavaccination.nl. We have Lareb, the institution whose job is to keep track of all side effects. It is extremely transparent in that regard. We have the EEA, which will examine everything before admission. If clinical trials need to be conducted in a row, the EEA will investigate them. The EEA Decision also makes it clear what the potential side effects may be. If a new side effect is discovered, then there is transparency about it. So we're perfectly transparent about what side effects are. I think it would be very important for you to acknowledge that too. You have already asked these questions about a hundred times, I think, and from now on really will help to reduce the pressure on care. I think that's your job, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u102	It may be a waste of my interruptions, but I would like to ask the Minister the following. Wouldn't he think it a good idea, given the serious side effects that are getting more and more out of it, to show people who are picking up a booster it is of course their own decision to do or not show a form that they prefer to sign, on which that information is given on the spot? You are right: those side effects are undoubtedly somewhere to be found, if you are going to look up all the scientific studies. You can say you can find that information somewhere, but that's not an informed consent. Then you have to go all the way looking for information and people don't. You know that, too. That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u103	In my opinion, it is really sufficiently clear in all places what the effect is and what the side effects are. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u104	Firstly, from my group, I would like to correct something about boosters and the reflections in August. The bitter reality at that time was........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That poses a permanent risk of virus mutations. That was also the reason we said at the time: listen carefully to the WTO if it encourages them to make these vaccines, especially in these countries, available. At that time, there was also much less known about the decreasing vaccine effectiveness. Looking back at that moment, that was a perfectly logical motion, precisely because we now see what virus mutations give us again. If we now look at the concern we have about people who have been vaccinated and where vaccine effectiveness is decreasing, then it is very important that gas was given when it became clear, also by the cabinet. We are going to talk about this again later, and also about what is a logical time to booster. I wanted to give this reflection, because my name was mentioned about this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u105	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u106	At the moment, I am concerned about the omikron variant and what it does in terms of reducing vaccine effectiveness, especially for people over 60, who have consciously chosen to protect the vaccine and which we are all happy with. They are already making or have already made agreements, but I am not quite clear in the Minister's statements whether it is important that they be pricked as soon as possible or that the agreement is in any case in place. I know from a very large group who made an appointment, and who just nicely looked at the three options on the website and clicked on it, that it's due at the end of the year, beginning next year. Do you have to go faster? Or is that clear in the course of this week? Could that mean another shift? How will the Minister communicate about that? I would be very sorry if we could get some noise in that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u107	If you have the opportunity to make an appointment, it is a motto to make that appointment through the site. That's the fastest way to make an appointment. In fact, three available options are always offered, taking into account the distance and calendar date closest to it. What I have just explained to Mrs Agema is that during the scaling-up phase, new slots will be available on a daily basis. These slots are offered by a local GGD to the national GGD, so that they can find out about the appointment system. If the hospitals could indeed meet our request to create a number of vaccination sites, they would also find out about the meeting portal. This means that every day there are new and more opportunities to make agreements. Suppose you're dissatisfied because your appointment is a few weeks too far in time, then try to reschedule it. That is possible, but rather not all, because then we get the back and forth on that site all the time, which also gives a lot of fuss and fuss. But every day new appointment slots are offered. That goes as far as it can and the real possibilities allow it. In fact, I had just received a question from Mrs De Vries which is in line with this. The slots for the next week are filled. There are now more than 200,000 appointments a day and they are added. The last week, until last Sunday, more than 1.1 million booster shots were placed, including 630,000 at the GD vaccination sites. 500,000 appointments are scheduled for the next week. There's a few more hundred thousand on top of that. The GGD's schedule is to put over 1 million there next week. In short, there are new appointment slots all the time. These days it is for people aged 60 and over who are between three and six months. When it was still six months, they couldn't make an appointment, but now they can make an appointment three months after the last prick date. They'll be their turn in the next few days. Then the years go down. Next Friday or Christmas I hope to be with the 45-plussers at least. They can make an appointment as soon as possible. That will be very short-term at times, because new lock locks were just known in the neighborhood, and sometimes that will wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mrs Bikker, then Mrs Van den Berg and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u109	Thank you to the Minister for the technical explanation on how more and more places are added. Good news! But then again exactly: I have a question about the 60-plus group, the decreasing vaccine effectiveness and the uncertainty surrounding the omikron variant. Many people have booked an appointment in the belief that there had to be at least six months between the first shot and the second shot. It is only since yesterday that the directive has been drawn up in those three to six months. It is precisely for them that I am very curious to know exactly what the Minister's message is to them. Is that "wait, because you have your appointment" or "in view of current events, it is wise that we have just boosted this group first"? If the Minister would like to study this for a while, because this is too much exercise, I would understand that. But I think it is really important for this group that we have that clarity, because I fear that they will be hospitalized, even in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u110	Until Tuesday, you couldn't make an appointment until you were six months past. You couldn't make an appointment ahead of schedule. There was a lot of criticism of that, but that was precisely because we would be flexible enough if there were to be a change. So we are, 'cause you couldn't actually make an appointment until those six months were over, so after your last infection, after your last shot. Now that we've gone from six to three, it's possible to make that appointment for the 60-plussers. It is now their turn to make an appointment if they have had their last vaccination or their last positive test result at least three months ago. Until yesterday, they couldn't make an appointment. So now they're just going to be very quick. They can just schedule it very quickly now. You don't understand me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u111	Let me give you another chance to put the question a little more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u112	Maybe I'm not explaining it properly. I am concerned about vaccine effectiveness for this group, especially when people have it further away in the future. I understand the technique and how cool it is that they can go sooner. I think that's wonderful, but I'm just asking what the Minister's advice or RIVM's advice is for this group. Should these people try to get a shot as soon as possible? Should they or should they not try to move an appointment if it is in January or late December? That's where I care. That is actually true, I think, especially for the group of AstraZeneca people, who were delivered in the technical briefing this morning by the pictures that Professor Van Dissel showed us all. I think the Minister should be able to give this clear signal, but I can also imagine that he should think about it for a while. But that's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u113	Your question is: should they be vaccinated as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u114	I'm going to try to answer the question as clearly as possible. Van Dissel did indeed say something this morning about the decreasing vaccine effectiveness. The first thing I would like to say about this is that it is about vaccine effectiveness against infection. Therefore, it is not about vaccine effectiveness against a serious infection or hospitalisation. It's about vaccine effectiveness against infection, because that's what we know now. The assumption is indeed that it has quite decreased. This does not mean that this is a similar reduction in vaccine effectiveness against severe infection or hospitalisation. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dus ik zou ...]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u115	But I'm gonna stop you right now. I think the question was: should the 60-plussers get a booster as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u116	Still, it starts with the care following AstraZeneca.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u117	...and if that appointment is in January, does that appointment have to be brought forward? That's the question. If you cannot give a clear answer, you can come back to it later. But that is the specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u118	It was also about an observation of this morning's technical briefing. I would like to underline this, because I see that there is a lot of unrest about this. There are people who call their GP in a couple and jump. That doesn't work, and you shouldn't. What you have to do is just make your booster appointment. That's what you have to do. The decreasing vaccine effectiveness, which Van Dissel mentioned this morning, was therefore about infection and not necessarily about hospitalization. Do you need to get that booster? Oh, yeah. Do you have to do that as soon as possible? Oh, yeah. Until yesterday, you had a chance to make that appointment if you had your last shot six months ago. And as of today, you've had that opportunity from three months. So you can just make your booster appointment sooner, even if it's only been a few months since you got your last shot, which is only three months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u119	The answer is yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u120	If you have your appointment in two weeks, do you have to bring it forward now? Well, I don't think that's necessary. But just make your prick appointment as soon as you can. Could it be that you'd already made an appointment for deep in January? No, because you haven't had that opportunity so far. There is therefore no such possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u121	I'm gonna take over the last one, because I'm a concrete set with my husband myself. I was just outside those six months. So it didn't work out and that's why I got zero on the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u122	We seem to have been talking about the Van den Berg case all this time!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u123	I recognize Mrs Bikker's question very much. So my husband could have made an appointment for January 7th. Thanks to the fact that the Minister mentioned "three months" last night, we were able to make an appointment for me this morning for next week. So my husband wants to see if he can advance his appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u124	'Cause he wants to have a good time together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u125	Apart from that, wherever we need to be in the country, we'll go there. But the point is that this can't be done via the website; apparently you have to call for it and that line is overcrowded. That was briefly the point. So I understand from all sides the question of whether you should try to advance that appointment and, if so, whether it can be digitally, so that that line doesn't get overloaded. My second point is that I get emails...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u126	Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to start with the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u127	I am thinking of my interruptions, Mr President, and I would therefore like to ask one long question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u128	I understand, but we want a clear answer from the Minister to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u129	I get it. Don't start calling everyone, because the lines are already overcrowded because everyone calls all the time. So make your appointment through the site. Can you move your appointment through the site? I don't think so, honestly. Can you make a new appointment? I thought so, but I am going to look at it very precisely and come back to it in the second term, with a behavioral instruction for Mrs Van den Berg and for all the other 60-plussers who are suffering from this same problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u130	Thank you. Then ask 1b.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u131	Yes, question 1b. I get emails from people who are 70-plus, who are less digitally skilled and therefore want to make an appointment. You must have received an invitation first. So there are 70-plus people who now see that all those 60-plussers are making an appointment, while they have not yet received an invitation. That's question 1b. Question 1c concerns the category of people who took priority in the spring and were pricked with Astra because they were in a vulnerable group. There's 45-mints in there, too. They ask when they are next and are also concerned because they have a chronic disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u132	We'll send out the invitations, because if you have to wait for your invitation, it's gonna take way too long. So we invite by social media and we make sure that the website is easy to find. In the meantime, people can make an appointment from the moment they are 60 years old and their last shot is three months ago. The letters are still sent and then actually apply as a friendly reminder to make that appointment. So it is added as extra service. Then the flu prick group. It was not in the prioritized group for the booster, because the Health Council said: we really give the booster in order of age, because the risk is really determined by age. But the flu prick group said, "But what about us? Because it's been quite a long time with us." We are now going so fast that we expect to be in the situation at the end of next week that the majority of the flu puncture group has been in place. The people from the flu puncture group who, due to their age, have not yet been able to make an appointment in the second half of last week, will be invited by text message as well as possible to get stuck. Why do I say "as good as possible"? A number of queries need to be run to get this group out very precisely. In fact, it is a group that last year was ahead of their age, because of their increased medical risk. That was the case for the primo vaccinations, not necessarily for the booster vaccinations. So it's really been a little longer with them. The point is that, of course, we have done the same with the care workers. So we have to select this group in a good way. We need to do this as well as possible and then they get an invitation by SMS with the possibility of getting a booster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u133	May I conclude from the answer to question 1b that the 70-plus people should receive that written invitation in the very short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u134	Yeah, I'm assuming that. A huge batch is sent every day to invite the people. But the announcements by social media and on the website are more flexible and that's why we use them, then they don't have to wait for the post.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u136	I would like to offer a little help to Mr Van Houwelingen. We're here with 150 MPs and we have a controlling task. We do not all share the same opinion, but we all serve the interests of the Netherlands. We do that with the best of intentions. I often ask questions about data I look at. I don't do that to spread fake news; that's what I do to get an answer or to move the cabinet ship in a different direction. It's okay to disagree. You may have a difference of opinion about ventilation. I have just asked a question about ionization, I hope it is still being answered, or about vaccinating young people. We are opposed to this, but we can differ on this and there are also doctors who disagree on this. So it's not like the cabinet has a patent on it. I would ask the Minister to have a little respect for the controlling task. In that light, I asked a question about excess mortality, not to spread fake news, but because I read a study from the University of London. They say that the registration went wrong because people who were vaccinated were initially registered as unvaccinated in the first two weeks. I'm just asking that question, certainly not to spread fake news, but to make sure that the mortality peaks after the first and second vaccinations are properly looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u137	Thank you. I see the Minister looking for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u138	I was frantically leafing, but let me do it out of my head. Last time, Omtzigt asked a question about this. I explained at that time: in the Netherlands the analysis of excess mortality is done by the CBS. The analysis of excess mortality therefore always takes some time, because you can never do that per week or so. This is done on a quarterly basis and always after that quarter. There's a certain amount of time in it. I understand that this is unsatisfactory, but it is. I think we should do it with that. Otzigt has asked that this be analysed in a good way by statisticians, by the people who know it. Chicken underlined that question in her contribution. I indicated in the letter that we did indeed request that we investigate this further. We'll just share that with the room. So there's no will not to analyze those figures. There is, however, a great reluctance to indicate those figures at the moment and also politically. I said last time that analysis of excess mortality rates is really a subject of particular interest. You really should leave that to the statisticians.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u139	Of course, I understand that very well. I supported that motion, too. It is very nice that research is being carried out, but it has been going on for almost two years now that these data point to certain aspects and that both statisticians and medical practitioners disagree. That wasn't exactly my point. I'm just waiting for the results of that investigation. My point was that we should be able to ask questions like that without being accused of fake news immediately. I would appreciate it if the Minister would acknowledge that you should have a certain respect for the questions, even though they may not be entirely in line with cabinet policy. They are well-intentioned, they are in the interests of the Netherlands. And if the investigation proves otherwise, fine, then so be it. But that investigation must take place and the questions must be put here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u140	Sure. It is not about asking the question, but about the insinuation that sometimes lies in the question. If questions are really meant to cast doubt in the tone, in the content, then it is my job as Minister of Health to say that the worst contribution you could make in this crisis is to cast doubt on the severity of the virus or to cast doubt on the importance of vaccination, and to undermine the confidence that people can place in all checks and balances that have been set up by the government, the Dutch government and the European government to ensure the safety and effectiveness of vaccines. I really think it's my job to protect public health. That's why I've been appointed. If questions, in the way they are asked, in the content with which they are asked, undermine confidence in vaccination, it is my job to say something about that. Sure. I'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u141	Finally. It is our job to inform the Cabinet that a curfew has not worked anywhere. That a lockdown costs more killing than it costs. That vaccination of children should be seen in a different light, because it is probably better to give these boosters to the elderly than to children who do not end up in hospital or on ice at all. That's our job. I understand the role of the Minister, but there must also be respect for the supervisory role of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u142	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u143	Thank you. The Minister responded to that. Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u144	The Minister states that 1 million shots have been made so far. That's great, even though we would have liked to have seen it sooner. Next week, one million pricks a week, very nice that that's gonna happen. But if I look at mid-January, I think the Minister should end up at 2.5 million shots a week. I wonder how the Minister is going to do this in concrete terms. I understand the army is being deployed. We have made the proposal ourselves a few times, just like D66: let pharmacists stick with it. Especially in a thinner populated area, for example, this might be an option. How is the Minister going to realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u145	You're right, it's over a million shots a week where you have to go. For this, the GGD is up to the level of scaling up, at the level of the number of locations, at the level of the number of needle lines at a location and at the level of the number of people you need for that. The GGD is supported by the Red Cross, Defense and hospitals, for example. In this way, we want to maximize the total capacity of the GGD. Tens of thousands of people are being deployed for this. Some of them still have to be trained to get to work afterwards. That's how it's gonna work, and I'm confident it's gonna work. Whether you are ready in the second half of January depends very much on the turnout. The turnout is now estimated at about 80%, where I actually hope it's just 100% of the people who got their previous shots. We'll work hard on that. It may take a little longer, but in that second half of January we really need to be done with the booster campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mrs. De Vries...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u147	Then we'll need all the outside help we can get. It was still about the pharmacists. All outside help is needed, but it must be aid that is actually helping in capacity. What we see is that sometimes very fragmented help is offered with very few hours. The GGD can't do very much with that. What we also see is that help is being offered from, for example, the pharmacists. Of course, we did a pilot with that at your request. That was a request from Mr Paternotte, I believe. It was a request from both, even. Can you check it out? It has not quite become the success we had hoped for, because it simply does not really contribute enough in numbers. That's why that's not what's really gonna help us right now. Pharmacists can still help a lot, namely in making people go to the GGD street to get pricked there, but connecting pharmacists to the prick locations is actually not very much of added value at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u148	However, I think that perhaps the Minister should look at this again, because I think that certainly in the more thinly populated regions the distances to the central sites are quite large and that it can help to go perhaps from that 80% to that 100%. But my question is actually about the one million. If the Minister says that that is the maximum capacity that is going to be reached by the GGD per week, I am afraid that in mid-January we will be at a maximum of 6 million booster shots. I do not think that is enough, especially if 80% is to be achieved. I'd really like to go to that 100%. I wonder if that is enough per week, even though I have a great deal of admiration for the GGD if it could do that. I think we're gonna have to raise the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u149	I'm gonna take the sum out of my head, and then I'm gonna do it all over the world. It's about six to the second half of January. We have a total of about 10.5 million 18-plussers. One million of them have already been and one million cannot yet be because they are within their three months. That's how you get about $8.5 million. If the turnout is about 80%, you arrive between 6.5 million and 7 million pricks. So we have to put a little over a million shots a week to get there. I'm not saying it should be a million a week. In fact, it would be great if you could go a lot further, because then you can go much faster. There is therefore no brake in the commissioning of the GGD. You have to be somewhat real in what is actually to be achieved, but there is no brake in the assignment. We didn't say maximize it to a million. We asked: what could you do to the maximum in gear? That's how you come up with the sum that I just made global.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u150	I think the Minister will be returning to the pharmacies separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u151	Yes. I think it's still in the set.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u152	Then I'll go on with that later. The minister just said about the GGD: they're going to employ a lot of people, but sometimes those people still need training. At that point. I call on people, reservists, to report to the G.D.D. My mailbox will be filled with retired doctors and nurses. A group member of our group who says "I do want to help," is told "fantastic, then you can start a three-week course in a week or three and then we'll have a lot of help afterwards." There are also nurses who say: "I really wanted to help. I work four days a week and I wanted to prick for two days, but then the GGD says: it must be at least three days." Really set aside all these rules to ensure that we can use the people who can prick, who can objectively simply prick clearly. That would help a lot. In Belgium they have walk-in locations where volunteers are deployed. You can just walk in there. I would like that to happen here, too, but for that I think it is necessary that we give people who want to help that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u153	Anything we can take away at that point, we will. But you have to want people to know a little bit about what they're doing when they're on a prick's street. It's really responsible work. I also read the groaning from a single GP in the newspaper: "Well, I'm offering to do medical supervision at a location. I've been a doctor for a long time, haven't I?'. But, yes, you have to want to know how such a location works. It's not so crazy that we're asking people to take some training for that, is it? It's only very short. I can see it from close range, too. Very often it's just e-learning courses that you can do in the evening, when it comes to pricking yourself. So it's really only very short, but it does cost something of training before you get to work. I don't think that's too much to ask. Look, the point is, it has to be done as soon as possible. What I think we should have a little faith in is that the GGD can do this. The GGD has shown that they can scale up incredibly fast, can run an incredible amount of production in a week. That's what the G.D.D. can do incredibly well. So let's have a little faith that they're getting that well organized. It is very nice that there is a lot of help, but I also understand that they say: it really works the easiest to fill those schedules if you get a slightly larger offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u154	Of course, it is stuck with those telephone lines now: people, 60-plussers, who will indeed be scheduled again in January. It's real that we have that now. You could take away a lot of those kind of points if you could just walk in many places. That is the approach of Austria, Germany, France and Brussels. Then, of course, it would help if you could easily deploy people. I can understand why you'd like to revisit someone who's retired for 20 years. But a dentist reporting for duty, a nurse reporting for duty, is basically authorized to do so immediately. Then it is said 'if you only want to do that two days a week, we think that is too little'. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can at least talk to the GGD to make it clear that everyone's help is now welcome. This could really make a huge difference. We'd like to have those walk-in locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u155	What we do is, where there are really bureaucratic thresholds, remove them. A minimum level of training is really necessary. I think Mr Paternotte shares that. I'm not very excited about walk-in locations myself. The GGD Midden-Holland tried that out in a number of locations. The traffic jams were really huge. Then you can say, you see, that means that people really like it. I understand that, but it's gonna be such a mess. So what I think we should do is prick as many people as possible. We'll do it by age and by the line of agreements. What is added to it in the coming time is appointments via text message to assign a time lock to which you can then go. That's actually a form of free walk-in, but then controlled free walk-in. We're working on that. Technically, we can do that from next Thursday. That is what we are going to use, anyway, for the flu-pricking group, but we are also trying to use it for other groups to use as much space as possible. So if there's a blank lock somewhere and we know people don't have an appointment for a while, we'll lead them there by text message. That's a regulated walk-in, you might say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you. Mrs Van der Plas, BBB, and then Mr Hijink. With regard to time, I would like to ask the Minister to respond a little more succinctly, because we also have another minister on an important subject, namely the schools. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u157	The interruptions have already covered a lot of things that I had on my list. With me, there's really only one question left to the Minister. I'm really bugged by the downplay of problems that people have to reach someone to make an appointment for boosters. It is said: just go to that website, then you don't have to wait for the mail. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands, still, who don't know how to deal with computers. They don't know how to do that or they're low-lettered. I think there's a bit of fun in the Minister's answers. So one question to the Minister: does he want to leave that out and respect the people who have trouble making an appointment, for whatever reason? Those people too have their concerns and their problems, and they are as valuable as someone who is good with computers and can do it very quickly. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u158	Absolutely. That's why we do everything we can to help people. It's the fastest and easiest way to make an appointment on the computer. There's also a call to be made. Only, we see that there is such an incredible mass call, that there is no call center to be organized against. The call center has 10,000 employees or something. There's just no way to organize against it. That's why we say, please make a digital appointment and let them help you. Of course, you can help your neighbors make an appointment or let someone else help you out. Some people find it very annoying to have to ask, so that's why it's really good when people offer to help someone make that appointment. Through libraries, we have a whole network of easily accessible help to make this type of agreement. If you have a problem with your CTB, you can also go there. In short, we are helping in every possible way, because I very much agree with that. Not everyone is equally digitally skilled. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u159	I think the problem is that it is made intensely complicated for a lot of people to get a shot quickly. I think that's the problem. Mrs van den Berg's example is clear. I myself just got messages from people who are in the late 60s and are now scheduled for 7 or 8 January. Then the Minister says: there might be new slots, so if you call again tomorrow, you might be able to get there sooner. That's no way to work, is it? So I would like to make that point once again about free entry. The minister says that it happened at one location and there were heavy traffic jams. Of course. If you do that in one location in the Netherlands, people come from far and wide. The point is, of course, that you would do that in all the municipalities. Then without phone calls, without overloaded lines and without the bureaucracy of the websites that a lot of elderly people can easily understand, just walk or ride a bike with your passport, go in somewhere, get a shot and go out again. I just don't understand why we couldn't do something like that in a normally tightly regulated country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u160	It's not like it couldn't be. That is really the assessment of the professionals who have not organized their first vaccination campaign, but have done so many times for a long time. This is, by the way, the most massive of course. It is their assessment that that is simply an unwise way of working in terms of logistics. Working with appointments makes it possible to use the locations much more efficiently and thus much more massively booster. What we want from our GGD is that we'll just be ready in the second half of January. Then it is best to make the most and most efficient use of the capacity that can be made available in such a short time. If that's what you want, working with appointments is a much more efficient way. What we are adding to that, by the way, is that I think that Mr Hijink is partly in favour of the possibility of going to walk-in slots by text message. Then you get a time lock that is wider than the time lock that you normally have through an appointment, so you get a sort of controlled walk-in for a part of the group. This also contributes to the maximum use of capacity. But I'm really not up for walk-in. I really don't think that's gonna work in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u161	So the minister thinks it's gonna be easier, more effective if we're gonna text people. Then we're gonna call and we're gonna have the website, and then we're gonna text. Maybe it'll help. I honestly wonder. Quite apart from the whole discussion about when you start boosters, I would have hoped that almost two years after the start of the crisis there would be a roadmap, even when it comes to the use of volunteers and retired doctors and nurses. 'Cause we're getting messages from them, too. I had hoped that a plan would be prepared for this, so that if it is needed, it could be launched very quickly on a large scale at the push of a button. I just think it's a huge missed chance that maybe we're gonna get that omikron wave later and we're just too late boostering these groups. I would like to ask the Minister what is to be done about that now. If he doesn't want those walk-in locations, what can we do now to get the most important groups vaccinated in time? Because when I hear people are scheduled for January 8, I just don't see it happening that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u162	You ask a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u163	Yes, I am asking a lot of questions, because the concerns are also very great and I simply have too little confidence that with the approach that is now in place we will be in time to turn that wave around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u164	And there was also the question of whether that playbook is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u165	Look how fast the GGD's scaling up now. You can only do that if you take all the lessons you've learned over the past year. So we don't work with all kinds of small groups, but very massive. So we're just working with those meeting slots. So we work with large locations, where a lot of people can be poked at the same time. We're gonna run a prick volume of over a million a week. It's insane that the G.D.D. can do that. They can only do this because they use exactly what Mr Hijink says, namely those schematics, which have been improved, of course, on the basis of the lessons of recent times and on the basis of a lot of help from others, from Defence, from the Red Cross, from people from hospitals and from general practitioners. There's an incredible amount of help from others. I would like to say to Mr Hijink: shall we have a little confidence that the GGD will get this organized? They can do that very well. They have also really just proved that they can very well organize large campaigns. That's one. Two is: I very much agree with Mr Hijink that we need to prick vulnerable people as quickly as possible. That is why everything is aimed at doing all 60-plussers as quickly as possible. If I had to make an assessment now of whether it will be possible to have done all the 60-plussers who would like to have that booster before the turn of the year, I would think: yes, that should be broadly possible, perhaps except for the non-mobile home residents. There, with GGD's and general practitioners, the acceleration is fully used to prick them as quickly as possible. That's just very labour-intensive. But we'll do that as soon as we can. So if the care is "is everything really put on everything?', Then the answer is simply: everything is put on everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u166	Thank you. I think we're going to test now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u167	No, Mr. Chairman, I still have a lot of vaccination questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u168	Is that part of the theme booster?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u169	Yeah, those are questions about the booster and other vaccination questions. Yes, excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I think it's okay to answer those questions anyway. But I'll do it as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u171	I come to the booster policy for the young people who have been pricked with Janssen. We have deliberately asked the Health Council whether an acceleration should be applied or something. The GGD says that the performance is just the fastest if you choose mass and select by age, and says: please don't make separate groups again. I thought I'd do it on the last date, but then we were still six months after the last date. At that time, I thought that might lead to an acceleration, but now that we have turned those six months into three months, that is not really the issue anymore. By selecting on the basis of age, it's just the fastest. So it's just the people who are the most vulnerable and also the most vulnerable to infection. It is now going so fast that the young people who were pricked with Janssen around the summer will also have been ordinary in the second half of January. Then the question about when you can register for the booster abroad. So last week we started to speed up the booster campaign. Let me skip the introductions: no, it is not yet possible to register the foreign vaccination in the Netherlands in CIMS. Currently, RIVM explores whether and how foreign registrations of vaccinations can still be registered in the Netherlands in CIMS, and then become visible on MijnRIVM. Furthermore, the Member State that vaccinates under the EU regulation on the digital covid certificate, the DCC, is also responsible for issuing the DCC. That really complicates being able to issue a DCC in the Netherlands after boostering. Anyway, it is an issue that, of course, does not only play in the Netherlands. He also plays European. We will have to come up with a solution to this, but that is technically insanely complicated. That's just the downside of booster tourism. I think we've taken care of the questions about the walk-in locations. When have all the vulnerable and 60-plussers been vaccinated? I've already dealt with that question. It should work before the turn of the year. Mrs Van Esch asked why it is not possible to booster those 60-plussers before the turn of the year. Well, I guess I can. How is the minister going to convince the people to get that booster, and is the behavior unit invited to the Catshuis? Yes, the behavioral unit was at the Catshuis. Through the studies of the behavioral unit, we know that about 80% of people are now willing to get that booster. Please, let's do everything we can to make that 100%. In all our expressions and on all the stages we have, we call on people to be vaccinated, and to be boosterd. That booster is not a nice to have, but a need to have against the omikron variant. So we really want to get as close to that 100% as possible. Maybe I should answer that January question right now. Because that question had to wait until the second term, I had already turned it off very secretly. Of all the people who have been allowed to make an appointment to date, 1.2 million people have planned an appointment for the booster. By opening new lock slots in stages, we currently have a small 70,000 standing before the beginning of January. By phone, you can reschedule an appointment, only that phone line is pretty overcrowded. So the GGD is now looking at whether these people can be contacted by text message as soon as new stick slots are released, to reschedule the appointment. So that happens proactively from the GGD. It would now be too slow to adapt the portal for that. So that's not going to happen. But inviting people by text message to reschedule is done. So every day a lot of new slots are added, so for a new appointment people might want to wait a day. If you see that the appointment you make, runs until January, is actually the advice to wait a day, or two days, with making an appointment. Definitely new slots have been opened for which you can make an appointment. That is also an answer to Mrs Den Haan's question. I think I've come up with a whole end with the block on boosters. Then I'll go to the questions that really are going to be about the vaccination itself. Mrs De Vries said that the first and second shots are still important, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u172	Before you continue, there is another question from Mrs Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u173	I can remember that I started a number of debates about it a few days ago when some 120,000 slots per week were filled by especially young people, for their first shot. There were even teenagers who were afraid they wouldn't be able to shop when we got 2G. My question to the Minister is what is the composition of the total number of shots per week. What is the focus on now? Is it on the elderly and the boosters? That's what I think it should be like. And if teenagers are still scheduled to stop shopping with 2G, wouldn't it be better to give those slots to the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u174	I think we should both do it. This booster is incredibly important, but primo vaccination is of course also incredibly important. Still 11% of the 18-plussers haven't been pricked. That's roughly 15% of the 12-plussers. And we really need to prick it as soon as possible, because all the stings help to slow down the transmission and to be resistant to infections and thus to serious infections. So we all have to keep doing that. I was just going to say, in reply to Mrs De Vries, with regard to filling the slots, that last Monday around 9 000 first and second shots were made throughout the country. That's the primo vaccination. The forecast for this week is 30,000 appointments at the GGD for first and second vaccination. In the last week it was a little more second than first vaccination. I try to update every week. Over the past week, it's only grown one tenth. They're very few first and second stings, so it wouldn't actually help us in the booster campaign in acceleration. And that primo vaccination is very important. By the way, 15,000 people have entered through the walk-in. For first and second shots, we do free walk-in. Fortunately we see that the vaccination rate is still rising, but it is very hard to toiling and it is going very slowly. There are two ways to look at that. You can think: against the 90% is insane, especially with all the counterwind due to disinformation. But you can also think: it's actually just too little when you look at the protection we actually need, also against that new variant. To further increase the vaccination rate, we continue to use the low-threshold vaccine. We do this through that approach in those 30 municipalities, we do so with the Doubling Phone, for example, which is used very much. It's fantastic. We also do it with a new website that addresses all the disinformation that has led to doubt in people's minds: overvaccineren.nl. I think it's a very accessible way to give all the answers to questions that people might have. I am really convinced that about half of that 11% would still be convincing. Let's say that half of them are truly ideological or religiously very convinced opponents of vaccination. It's possible. But that other half has to be convincing, you'd think. I heard someone mention the number of those 95%. It is not that the RVP always ticks 95% with all other vaccinations. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Heel vaak is het 93%, 92%.]] For HPV it is much lower. But for most vaccinations, it's 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%. I do not know whether 95% will actually be feasible in this case. I would love it incredibly. Let's at least agree that we're going to do everything we can to get there. Mrs De Vries asks if everything is ready in time for vaccination of the children. Yeah, the good news is that it's confirmed that the first batch of child vaccines is being delivered today. There's something in the 40,000, so we can do the medical risk group of the 5- to 11-year-olds. They'll be pricked from December 20th. In the second half of January the other children will be pricked. Only then will the vaccines be in sufficient stock in those quantities to be able to do the rest. In fact, it is also convenient in relation to the booster campaign. It's not like it's gonna be all in order. It will be partly simultaneous, but in the second half of January we want to start with other children. Then the pharmacists. I would just like to comment a little more precisely on that question. It was neatly worked out. Close collaborations are being established in several regions, including between the GGD and the GP, such as a pilot in Friesland. In that pilot the pharmacist vaccinated under the supervision of the general practitioner and registered the GGD on the spot. That's how the partnership was. The evaluation showed that the pilot did not result in additional vaccination capacity by the use of pharmacists, because in the agreed form of cooperation someone from the GGD had to be present continuously for registration. That wasn't entirely proportionate to the turnout. The pilot has led to useful insights for other regions and cooperation. Together with the KNMP, the GGD investigates what other forms of cooperation between the GGD and pharmacists could be effective. The KNMP indicated that it would ask pharmacists to at least contribute to the provision of information. And that is very valuable, because the pharmacy is often a very accessible facility in the district, also in neighbourhoods where people live where the vaccination rate is still very low. The pharmacists provide information material, flyers, posters, etc. They put the information online and in addition they answer questions and refer people to the nearest location. That's very valuable. So we haven't quite finished looking at what else might be possible, but that pilot didn't immediately increase capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u175	I understand that at the moment when you have to put in both a pharmacist and a GP and someone from the GGD. The question is whether all this is necessary and whether that is not a bit overorganised. Couldn't that be a little less elaborate? For example, can the pharmacist put it into the system itself? I am actually more looking for that kind of opportunity, where we do not have all the red tape around it, but we do have additional people who can put those boosters and vaccinations in a simple way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u176	I'd love to. We should be willing to do medical surveillance, sure. I would be in favour if the registration could be simpler. It's not unwillingness on my part. The question has come from your side. I'm thinking partly on the basis of an offer from the KNMP. I think we should seriously examine every offer. In this case, it has led to a pilot, which has not immediately led to the increase in capacity, but has nevertheless led to the willingness of pharmacists to contribute. That is a very important contribution to the provision of information and the reference. Let's see what we can do and how it can be simpler. I'm in favour of it, but it really has to contribute. That's always the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u177	That pilot didn't lead to large numbers. It's also a nice thing if you do a pilot in a number of small municipalities, because then it doesn't lead to large numbers. It can be quite a lot. In a village with 9,000 inhabitants with a fairly high vaccination rate, for example, 125 more shots have been put by the pharmacist. They've probably been for very vulnerable people, who already came to the pharmacist for medication, so those are double points in preventing hospitalizations. So that can make a difference. In Belgium, they recently decided that pharmacists should be allowed to prick, but also in Germany, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Norway, Poland, the United Kingdom and Switzerland pharmacists put the corona pricks. Why wouldn't we make that possible here, too? The law will have to be amended for a while, but then it could be done at the large health centres where the pharmacists are already in place. But it can also make a difference in villages, because people have to travel far there to vaccination centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u178	Just changing the law, yeah, fine, too. If the question is, "Would you like to look at that?', is my answer: I want to look at anything that might help. So you shouldn't read my reaction as unwillingness. Do I believe that will actually contribute a lot? I think it's an overestimate of what it could produce. If you ask me if I would like to look into what might be possible and what appears to be in the way of more efficient regulation, I am, of course, prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u179	Well, at least that's something. Mrs De Vries has already said that there should be medical supervision, I do not think that is necessary, but that is what we are going to talk about, and that there should be a health care professional to register. In the spring there was also no GGD at the GPs to register which shots they put. The hospitals are gonna put up a lot of shots now, too. Will there always be G.D.D.s? Or can we actually agree that they enter it into the system themselves? Then you can do a lot more stings. I think the Minister has quite rightly pointed out the urgency. He's now reading a further answer for me on his phone. I hope this is a better answer too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u180	The biggest problem right now isn't the pickers. Administration, location, managers, etc. are the biggest problem. I have promised you that I will look at what would be an obstacle to making more use of this at the moment. I just want to say something else. What we need to do right now is to booster as many people as possible as quickly as possible. This means that all energy must be in the mass to reach everyone as quickly as possible. I do not believe that adding a lot of small locations at the moment is a significant contribution to the acceleration of the booster campaign. This is without prejudice to the fact that you need to look for all the places where and all the opportunities in which people will be willing to be persuaded and let their doubts be removed. That pharmacist could play a role in that. The question then is whether it is also necessary for the pharmacist to prick himself. Or is it also fantastic that the pharmacist is available to engage in conversation with people to be convinced and then refer them to the nearest puncture site? Isn't that a much more efficient way of using pharmacists? That was the result of that pilot. I can follow that. You say: do you still want to see if by removing thresholds you can't get that pharmacist himself to prick? That is the question you are asking. Of that, I say: okay, if you do not see that as an obligation to achieve results, but if you look at the thresholds that are still there, I will look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u181	Thank you. I would ask the Minister to end his speech by 6.30 p.m. at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u182	Yes, please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u183	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u184	Then I'd like to ask you to quote the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u185	There are a lot of them, but briefly and succinctly. I think we've had a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u186	There was a question from Mrs van der Plas about not applying coercion in the vaccination of children. I understand. I do think that children under the age of 12 should be careful about that. It really has to be about informing you very well. That is a different type of consideration than that you make with 12-plussers, for example, who themselves have a bigger voice in it. With 12-minners, it's really the parents that are the move. There must be informed consent. The Health Council has weighed all these ethical dilemmas in a very good way and outlined them very clearly. It starts with the question of why children should be vaccinated. I have to say: when asking why they should be given the opportunity to be vaccinated. It starts with the individual interest of children themselves, the individual health interest. Most children have a very mild infection, but some of the children get more seriously ill, sometimes so serious that hospitalization is involved. In a small proportion of the children, the serious complication MIS-C occurs, that inflammatory syndrome. That is a reason as such to say that the health damage caused by a corona infection is indeed such that you should want to make that offer. In addition, the long-term covid complaints in children are fortunately much less, but can be prevented. It also adds that there is an indirect health interest. Children suffer most when their school closes or the class is sent home. All kinds of other restrictive rules may be the most important thing for children. There is therefore a great importance to vaccinate children from their own individual interests. I heard another member of your Chamber say: we are vaccinate the children because of the protection we are building in the population as a whole, in the collective interest. But it really isn't. In fact, the Health Council is quite aware that that is a side effect. It's not the reason to want to vaccinate. The reason for wanting to vaccinate is based on the individual interest of children. Next, the Health Council also says: precisely because it is about children, you have to make the information very accessible at the level of children themselves, at the level where parents can consciously engage with their child. Any form of compulsion or urge or anything else should be avoided, especially because of not being able to participate in activities, for example a reference to the corona access pass. Those corona tickets only apply in the Netherlands from 12. These do not apply to children from 5 to 11, very consciously for this reason as a background. I therefore share Mrs van der Plas's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u187	If the Minister shares my point of view, then I wonder why the Minister in the media says: it is very sensible, because that is how you prevent school closures and restrictive measures. That's a form of urge, isn't it? The Health Council explicitly states that there should be no negative consequences for the vaccination of children. UNICEF sounds the alarm that it's going a bit that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u188	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Health Council has reason to offer vaccines to children in that age group precisely because of the individual interest of children. The cabinet has fully taken up that argument. This reasoning starts with the direct health effects and then continues with the indirect health effects. If restrictive measures are to be imposed in the light of the state of the economy, children will suffer the most. It really is built from the individual interest. It's not my place to be neutral and say, "Oh, man, I don't care what you do; look. No, because it's definitely wise to do this. I, as Minister of Health, may be expected to bring that to light, and also why it is sensible. It is sensible because of the direct health effects and the indirect health effects. I've brought both forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u189	Well, no, the Minister didn't. If, after an opinion from the Health Council, the Minister says that he stands as Minister of Health for everyone's health, and that he thinks it wise for people to do so, then there are no consequences. Then, by saying that you are also preventing school lockdown or other restrictive measures, the Minister imposes a kind of moral urge on parents of children. They think: I don't want to be; I don't want to be the parent who gets our school shut down. My question is why the Minister says that, because the Health Council explicitly says that there should not be such an urge. The Minister can leave it at that: I think it is wise to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u190	I also have to tell you what that is wise to do. It is wise to protect one's own health. The Health Council has added, I think, a very justified observation: it is also important because of the indirect health effects on children. Luckily, most kids go through the infection very mildly. Children may suffer more from the measures taken against the virus. They, of course, also have an indirect health effect. The Health Council points out this importance, and so I also point out that interest. It's my job to outline the balance that people make. I think it is my job, from these two assignments, namely indirect and direct health considerations, to say to parents: it is really wise to have your child vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u191	Firstly, only a small proportion of the people in the Netherlands are infected with covid. We heard Mr Van Dissel say that again this morning in a technical briefing. Most of the people have mild complaints about it. We also see in the OMT figures that there are hardly any infections in the 5 to 11-year-old age group that we are talking about. Of course, it can make a child very sick, but that can also be from a RS virus or a flu. It's possible. It's possible. I think no one blames the Minister for pointing out the importance of public health. You can agree with some things and you can't agree with some things. It is indeed the responsibility of the Minister for Health to stress the importance of public health. I think the Minister's got a bit of a clue. I am referring to the addition that otherwise schools will close or other restrictive measures will be introduced. I see that as some kind of moral blackmail towards parents and maybe even children who hear that. They think, "Oh, my God, it's me." My question is: why does the Minister do that? Why doesn't he just stick to the story of the general health interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u192	I do not really have so much to add to what I have already said. Driven from children's health, there are two reasons that are important when it comes to vaccination of children. Firstly, that is the direct health effect. You are right: in most children the infection is fortunately very mild, but in some children it is also very serious. That alone is enough reason enough to want to offer the vaccine, says the Health Council: own choice of parents, but offer them. The second reason is the indirect health effect. Restrictive measures affect children. We talked about closing down education. If we know that vaccinating helps, isn't it my job to bring that up? We can't be neutral in that, can we? I can't play Switzerland when it comes to this type of thing. It is important to highlight the importance of public health, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u193	They say sometimes: men are Mars and women of Venus. In this case, I believe that Mrs Van der Plas is from Venus and the Minister is from Mars. We're talking all over each other. I get this point. I've said that a number of times. I am merely saying that adding 'otherwise the school will close' or 'other measures will come', I say it again, to the point that it can be understood as an urge. My question is: why does the addition have to be added? I'm just gonna get away from the public health issue. We know that; I've heard that and to some extent I'm quite comfortable with that. But why say that? Well, then you're talking about urge. You're just talking about urge, when the Health Council says there should be no urge. I think this is an urge. Or should people say: I do not think that, I think it is legitimate to say that. That's an answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u194	I don't think so. I think that's legitimate to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u195	Well, this was said ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u196	See, that's how easy it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u197	Okay, that's an answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u198	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u199	You don't have to be satisfied with it, but that's also an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u200	I have to outline the consequences of choices, especially if it affects public health. This is just the consequence of a choice. You see it as an urge. I don't see it as an urge. I see it as my job to outline the consequences of choices. That's very legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u201	A little along the lines of Mrs van der Plas' question. Yesterday, at the press conference, you said that you had the right to say no to vaccination: I do not accept that. What did you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u202	That's what I meant. I think that, in the way in which we socialists speak, but also politically, I honestly say that we are talking about vaccination rather quickly on the safe side that everyone must of course know it for themselves. Of course, everyone needs to know for themselves. That is true, because we do not have a vaccination obligation in the Netherlands. But I think that in that debate we are going around the uncomfortable fact that this freedom of choice, that freedom of choice not to choose vaccination, is in a great way restricting the freedoms of others, for example in access to care. I would also like to mention the enormous restrictions that must be imposed in the meantime in order to get that virus under some control, which means, for example, that we are in a great way restricting the right of ownership of the catering industry. The scope for the cultural sector is also being greatly reduced. None of this, or to a very lesser extent, would have been necessary if everyone were to complete the freedom they have with that responsibility, and to make the solidarity and responsible choice of vaccination. This indeed means that I can't just accept the fact that someone says: yes, but I'm definitely allowed to know for myself? Of course, it's about a free choice, but it's about a responsible choice that you have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u203	I can ask a lot of follow-up questions about this, but I'll be brief. Article 11 of the Constitution, the integrity of the body, is therefore not under discussion as far as you are concerned? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u204	Certainly not, but the Constitution always has a sideline of fundamental rights. So in addition to Article 11, we also have Article 14, which describes the right of ownership. We also have Article 22, which mandates the government to protect public health. In short, there are conflicting fundamental rights. In these conflicting fundamental rights, politics must make the choice. Where the freedom of one so evidently restricts the freedoms of others, politics must choose. That is why I say that we are not going to be neutral in the discussion here. I'm not the secretary of "Joh, look what you're doing." I'm the health minister. I'm not gonna sit down and play Switzerland, I'm not gonna be neutral in a discussion that is obviously not neutral. The right of many people is restricted by exercising the right not to have you vaccinated. We have to face that with each other, and I think that we are far too easy to get around in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u205	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u206	Yes, Mr President, I have actually had a lot of questions. There is one more question about Valneva. There are signals from people who would like to be vaccinated with Valneva, says Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I'm aware of that. Some people like that protein vaccine, that's Novavax. And some people would like that classic vaccine, that inactivated virus, Valneva. The point is that this has yet to be approved by EEA. I'm not gonna freestyle with that. We never do that. EMA really needs to approve it. And it's just not that far. It's still going on, and it's gonna take months. I hear a lot: those people would be willing to be vaccinated with Valneva or Novavax. I say to those people, please don't wait until it's there, because it could take months. By then, the virus will have really gotten to you. So please get vaccinated with what's going on right now, because that's just great stuff. I think I've passed through the vaccination questions, Mr President. I'm gonna go check on the test questions now. Luckily, there's only a few of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u207	Before you proceed, Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21 has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u208	I would like to ask another supplementary question. I would also advise everyone, especially given the current circumstances: have you vaccinated as soon as possible. But there is a group of people who, for any conscience concerns, do not want the current available vaccines. They're willing to wait for Valneva, whether we think it's medically sound or not. Knowing that there is a call, would the Minister at least say that we are going to buy those vaccines when the approval is received? Are we negotiating yet? What's in that area? I know about Novavax, but Valneva's a little under-exposed. I would like a little more information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u209	The work we can do now, we've done. I've arranged for 840,000 vaccines of Novavax and 10,000 vaccines of Valneva. I think Novavax will come a little sooner than Valneva, but they both have to go through the gate of the EEA. But it's settled by contract. In addition, I have the behavioral unit of the RIVM research done in order to be able to answer exactly that question. How many people are sitting quietly waiting for Valneva to arrive? I haven't gotten that result yet. At least I have those 10,000 vaccines now and it is very easy to order more of them. But it's gonna have to crawl through that gate first. I would like to add that every time: please use the other vaccines, otherwise there is a real chance that you will run into the virus before there is a vaccine for you. Those were the questions about vaccination. Then I'm gonna go check on the test questions. Mrs Westerveld asked what we are going to do to increase test readiness consistently and consistently. That's a fair question. We were really worried about that, because the test readiness was greatly reduced. That was also the main reason to make self-tests part of the total test palette. We can see that this has helped to increase the willingness to do something. In the seventeenth round of the RIVM behavior study, we see a large increase in the percentage of participants tested in complaints: from 29% in the previous round of measurements to 45% now. In addition, 32% also performed a self-test. So, added up, 77% of the respondents test for complaints. I can't really remember the percentage being so high. We also see this in the figures of the GGD and the Stichting Open Nederland: there is more testing than ever. We have now come quite close to the own-initiative paper you submitted last year. Last week, a small 7 million tests were conducted. These are the tests carried out at the GGD's and the Stichting Open Nederland, adding what has been provided through the shelves of drugstores and supermarkets and what has been done through education. So there is currently an enormous intensity test. The millions fly around your ears, both in terms of testing and in terms of spending, says colleague Hoekstra. So we see that the testing has increased enormously, but we continue with that. Another thing the behavioral unit has said is that you really have to tell the story of testing complaints, almost every day, very consistently, because it is a new group that gets complaints over and over again. You may think "I told you last week anyway," but the message doesn't arrive until people have complaints. In addition, the provision of tests through the schools, via the Poverty Fund, through these 30 municipalities is as easy as possible. In all possible ways, therefore, we ensure that the test readiness is strengthened and the number of tests increased. Then the free provision of a test for Christmas. That was Mrs Westerveld's idea, but it was actually Bikker's idea. Generic for the whole of the Netherlands I'm not going to be able to do that organizationally at all. By the way, providing the tests we have is going to be so fast that we don't have the tests before Christmas to do it again. Around the summer we have some experience with what that logistics requires and we know that it takes weeks to set up such a journey in a good way. Around the summer it was also a one-off action to get people more acquainted with the phenomenon of self-testing, but fortunately it is quite common in many households. People know how to get to the supermarket, the drugstore and the pharmacist. In the meantime, between 2 and 3 million are sold per week at the pharmacist, the drugstore and the supermarket. And there's also a $2 million riding through education. "More" I hear. So it's going really hard. There are also the tests provided through municipalities, the food banks and the poverty funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u210	I have often talked to the Minister about all these benefits in kind. I'm glad that happens. My idea was a little more generous and also a little more cognisant with the Minister in the possibilities he has, namely: what could be a good time after the holidays? I can also imagine: "That with the post was very complicated. You can pick them up in a number of places." We're just making it a national test day. How much fun is that? We have to do exactly that to prevent the virus from spinning again after all the bubbles that have met. If the minister said, "I say no now, but if I sleep on it one night, I might look at it more positively," that's fine. Then I'd rather not get an answer. But try to take that chance, Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u211	So we provide tests everywhere to people who can't easily get those tests themselves. For you and me, I think it's very easy. That's just a matter of walking to the super. Then you have a test or a whole stack of tests. But for people with a small scholarship, that can work differently. And so we do these benefits through the Poverty Fund, through the food banks, through the Red Cross, through the Salvation Army and through all the municipalities. Municipalities often do it at the counters they already have. It is therefore possible to obtain a test anywhere. In addition, we do it through primary, secondary, MBO and higher education. I'd almost think: try to think of a window where you can't get tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u212	But the Minister misses my idea of a national test day or a test day after the holidays. In Portugal, for example, it is perfectly normal for them to say: so around the holidays... Look, we're trying to stop vulnerable people from sitting together. Test yourself in advance and so forth. That's what we have to keep in mind. Please! But we know people are gonna meet around Christmas and old and new. That is precisely why we are going to encourage everyone to test themselves at an appropriate time afterwards. This is also quite easy to establish in terms of public communication. We do that to prevent us from infecting each other when we go back to work and after we meet in all kinds of places in the country. So it's really such an example of thinking along. I would ask the Minister to take a flexible approach to this rather than mention what is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u213	But there's such a lot happening. I'm so happy to be able to tell you all that. Let me address Mrs Bikker's invitation. We do indeed a lot for Christmas and for old and new, and anyway when you meet 70-plussers or put together as a club. We do say: if you meet in a larger group, make sure you test yourself. By the way, if you go on home visit: never more than four! I'm gonna see if I can do more and make Mrs Bikker happy. Of course, that is one of the goals of my life! Does the Cabinet see anything in population testing? Well, we're not very excited about that, because that requires enormous organizational power and the proceeds are very thin, as we've seen in all international research. Serology. Do I find anything different from what I thought last week and the week before that? No, I say in the direction of Mrs Verweij. But that means that we are just working on it, because there is the promise to find out what is happening in Switzerland. Did they organize it there in a way that we could also apply in the Netherlands? The answer is, maybe. But there are still a lot of questions about the elaboration and implementation. So I'm working on it and I'll get back to you when I'm in more hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u214	Can the Minister make a more concrete commitment on this? Is he going to inform the Chamber by letter or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u215	Yeah, anyway. It's just a project we're dealing with. We're watching what Switzerland is doing. You know that one of the intricacies that is cut-off value. Can you now use the cut-off value of each antibody titre to say "that still has enough neutralising effect"? How long may such an infection have been suffered? Of course, you don't see that from such a serological test. In addition, there are a number of implementing issues, because blood collection is really a reserved operation, which requires nurses. But you don't have it to a very large extent. You might be able to work with an extended construction, where you let people work under the direction of a nurse. But that's not all that simple. So we are looking at what is possible, and once I have thought of something, I will return to Mrs Pouw-Verweij, if only because the debate intensity is so high and she asks this question again in every debate. So I have to. Then there's the question about customized BCO. That's very important. We have about 8,000 people who can do that BCO. That's a lot. But with the huge contagion rates, it's never enough to give everyone the same attention. That's why we have to have BCO customized, because when a type of variant like the omikron variant shows up, you want to be able to do that BCO. BCO customised is a different BCO, which is more suited to the setting of a high vaccination rate in the Netherlands. BCO customised now looks like this. The core of a custom BCO is that the GGD makes a risk assessment and thus determines what is useful and necessary. This gives the GGD the room to focus on situations where there is a risk of spread. The criteria for an extensive BCO are in any case that the index, i.e. the one that has a positive test result, has a proven infection or has been at risk of a variant or interest or a variant or group with limited distribution in the Netherlands; that the index belongs to a hard-to-reach group, for example because of a language barrier or because it is a migrant worker; that the index is located in a low vaccination environment; that the index is part of a known cluster or a known outbreak; or that the index itself cannot carry out contact studies for various reasons. The latter is very often the case with older people, for example. This is the selection currently made by the GGD to customize BCO. For the rest, the BCO is of course just very much scaled down in its intensity and it is actually an instruction how people can do it themselves. This is also digitized with the GGD Contact app. That's one that we're going to need very much anyway to get people working themselves much faster by warning the people they've met. Mr. Chairman. This makes me feel like I've had the test questions. Then I'd like to look at the questions about care capacity. A number of groups asked about the article in the Volkskrant on healthcare capacity. I must say that I do not recognize the image that emerged from that article, if there had been some kind of offer that the department rejected, whereas if we had not, but had embraced it, there would have been a lot more beds now. What I do recognize, of course, is that we have always been in conversation with the concern about how to scale up. In any case, let me say that it is really disturbing for the people in the care to hear each time that there has not been scaled up. The people in care have scaled up in an incredible way in recent times: 83.000 clinic recordings, 16,000 ic recordings in recent months, over 800,000 nursing days; these are the numbers that fit. That's insane. We can count on the people in the care every day. It's also learned how to scale that up all the time. Those experiences are shared in the country. Mr Kuipers mentioned this morning examples of all the measures taken, the improvements that have been made in scaling up. He has mentioned good examples of how even more patients can be helped. I think we should only talk about this with great appreciation. Then the second thing I want to say about the scaling-up. It's quite often driven from the misunderstanding that if you had more beds, you wouldn't have to take any measures. Of course, beds have never been a means of combating an epidemic. An epidemic that grows exponentially means that you will always have to take measures, at most a few days or a week later if you have more beds. But preventing measures because you have lots of beds is impossible with such a fast exponentially growing epidemic. It's a misunderstanding that you hear a lot, and I'm committed to trying to disprove it. What happened to the extra beds that people from abroad would have needed? The Chamber knows this, because I have described this in detail to the Chamber. In the autumn, just after the summer, I asked the LNAZ, so to the hospitals, to evaluate and update the rampage plan that existed since the summer of the year before, to see how we could re-use it towards the autumn, if we need it. That is what has been done. The first reaction was: we're not gonna get that 1,700 anymore. That was the first reaction. That has led me to say: okay, I understand that for all the reasons I mentioned earlier, but we may need it to get to the 1,350; we may need that step in the upcoming plan. I asked: if you want to do so, look at what additional concentration in the region could be applied at the same time to concentration of care. How could you organize that? This has, of course, been mentioned a number of times. Somewhere, in one of those conversations, the idea came up in a few bullets: what we could do is focus and we could hire nurses from outside, for example. I didn't say you shouldn't. That's what I said: well, work it out. Then the response to that request was: we choose not to concentrate on covid care. I have always felt that this is a pity, not so much because I think that concentration would suddenly have no problem in taking action or anything. I don't believe at all that capacity is going to help you in not having to take measures. But I do think that after another winter, when we say to each other that we should learn to live with the virus, we should be prepared for an annual covid care wave that comes into hospitals. That means that we should want to accommodate that by being able to scale up flexibly, so that we do not have to scale down the other care all the time. You yourself have often pointed out the health damage caused by scaling up around the covid care, and that is just the case. You would actually want to scale that up as much as possible without very clearly scaling down all the other concerns. That's never gonna be possible, but we're gonna have to try that. That is why we are now looking again at how we could organise this scaling-up in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u216	That was a very nice and extensive exhibition. Actually, I was just asking about the following. There was a plan for it, and it was somehow rejected. Of course, everyone understands that care has done an incredible amount of work to do everything. Of course, there have been other plans and everyone has done their utmost. That is obvious; that is not the point at all. This is a plan that was presented on 17 September for 100 extra ic-beds in a somewhat unorthodox way, very creative. That's been presented and it's been rejected. Now the Minister says: yes, but it doesn't matter so much, because then you might be able to lock down a week later at most. First of all, this is already huge profits, because then you have a situation where the economy can go crazy for a week longer. But you also have another situation. What if you go into lockdown at the same time? Then you have less planned care that you need to scale down. It just saves people's lives, even with 100 unorthodox beds. Then why did that plan leave the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u217	It wasn't rejected. I'm really attached to that. That is wrong. I don't recognize myself at all in the presentation in De Volkskrant. That's not what happened. What happened? A letter was sent to the LNAZ on 11 October with the task of developing a concentration. This was partly due to the discussions that we had before on the actualisation and evaluation of the plan. In that letter on 11 October it was said: go ahead with the updating of the plan and take the concentration very strongly into account. There has been no plan in this House that we have said no to. In a first reconnaissance a few bullets have stood: you could also do this. Good, we said, go work that out. The response to this mission has come back: we have looked closely at it and it does not appear to be a viable solution. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u218	Yeah, what do you say? In any case, we agree that 100 extra ic-beds, put in a little creative way in a plan, are an advantage for public health. I think we can agree on that. But I asked this same question to Ernst Kuipers this morning and he just says: no, no, VWS rejected it. According to Ernst Kuipers, the article by de Volkskrant was true. Now I'm a little surprised, because the Minister is denying it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u219	It's pretty simple. You have the letter from me to the LNAZ. You have it. It was sent as one of the annexes to previous letters. You have the letter of 11 October to the LNAZ with 'want to develop further concentration'. You have the reaction, too. That is the reaction of the LNAZ to us, with: that is not a viable solution direction. You have one, too. You've already been able to read it, but I understand that all the stacks of paper are a lot. You can just check how that went. I didn't say no to the use of people from abroad. I have made a number of comments, namely that part of the quality of care is that you can communicate with each other, for example, that you can communicate with family. It's not that convenient if you don't speak Dutch. That's not allowed either, by the way. It doesn't relate to the law. So you're gonna have to teach people Dutch. There have been many projects with the involvement of foreign people and there is a lot to be said about many projects. I myself recently started another one myself. At least, I initiated one after my contact with my Indonesian colleague who said: we have quite a lot of nurses. Then I said: well, let's see if we can train them in the Netherlands and see if we can put them to work in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u221	Organising extra ic-capacity with people from abroad is an incredibly complicated job. We really shouldn't think about that too easily. If one could organize it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u222	Yes. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u223	Finally, Mr President. I think that people prefer to live and be helped in English rather than die because the minister assumes that they prefer to be helped in Dutch and that there is a huge problem in teaching those people Dutch. Well, I'd like to give that to the Minister for the next time he makes this assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u224	Yes. Then Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u225	We do hear two different stories. I asked you again in my term of office, and I ask you again if we can get the underlying documents, not just the formal letters that have been sent, but just the documents that have to do with this decision-making. I'd like to receive that. I understand you can't do that today. You can do that next week, but I'd like to do it in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u226	You have them. You have the department's assignment to the LNAZ and you also have the LNAZ's response to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u227	It concerns the underlying policy statement of the Ministry, in response to that. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u228	Then I need to see what's under there at all. Things are also exchanged in conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u229	Can the Minister come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u230	Yeah, I can see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u231	You'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u232	Than what's more important. This is actually more a reflection of the conversations, which have been very intensive and in which the department's enthusiasm for concentration has always been somewhat greater than that of the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u233	What question do you answer now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u234	To the question of how we're gonna scale up that care capacity further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u235	Okay. Mrs Westerveld's question is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u236	Sure. And from Mr Van Haga and others: how are we going to scale up that healthcare capacity further? What we will have to do for the long term -- that long term starts in the very short term -- is to learn lessons and use all the good examples we already see at the moment in any region that we could learn from in any other region in order to scale up that care in the best way possible, and we need to scale down as little regular care as possible. We want to do this by choosing, as part of our long-term approach, an expert team working with the field on how we could learn those lessons, how we could move towards a more flexible scaling-up where you actually come to concentrated care, at least that is one of the solutions in the region. At least we want to be better placed for the coming winter. What we could make use of in the second half of this winter, we must above all do. We want to set up an expert team in the long-term approach that we have started. The first report I hope to be able to steer towards you at the end of January. The fact that we need to move towards more flexible scaling-up of care where less other care needs to be scaled down is one thing that is certain if you know that there could be a new wave of patients in the next winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u237	Thank you. Now I want you to go to the long-term theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u238	Yes. This was the bridge to that theme, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u239	I keep trying, but Mr Hijink of the SP still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u240	Yes, because it's about the capacity in care. Of course, the capacity in care has fallen over the last year and a half, as many caregivers leave the profession. We have always said that salaries in health care should be raised. We are also terrified by the new coalition agreement that no extra euro will be released for healthcare salaries. Nothing. In fact, there will be a structural shift towards the EUR 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u241	There will be a debate tomorrow on the coalition agreement. There's a minister here from a missionary cabinet. So I'm just gonna look into your question in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u242	That's the question I wanted to ask you, Mr. Chairman. It is about whether this minister, who I think is also important for caregivers to be appreciated, can explain why in the coming years there will be no additional money for the salaries in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u243	I really don't want to comment on a coalition agreement. You may have just been able to read that, but I was working. So I couldn't read it. So I can't comment on it right now. What I would like to say in general terms is that, of course, we do have a budget for the salaries in the care sector. In recent years this has been the case: 6 billion structuralally, 3 billion incidentally. For next year too, that is the budget that I myself discussed in your Chamber. You are also familiar with the system, which is that every year there is room for wage and price development, and therefore also for salaries. So that will also be the case for the coming years. Perhaps this is also the time to answer Mrs Agema's questions about the zero line in hospital care. That question was also asked to Mrs De Vries, who very handy steered him my way, giving me the opportunity perhaps to explain. The starting point when it comes to covid care and also the implications that corona has on the fiscal frameworks for care, is in all healthcare laws and all sectors in the care that there should be no financial obstacles to delivering corona care and all necessary catching-up care. In several ways, additional budget has already been made available for providing covid care. I'll give you some examples in the Zvw. For ic-care, a subsidy scheme to enable all this scaling-up that we already see is available at around 450 million in 2022. Moreover, for the first phase of the restructuring plan, up to 1,150 beds, 35 million has been added to the MSZ framework for 2022. The Paramedic Recovery Scheme has been extended. This extension amounts to an estimated amount of 9 million. Those are just a few examples of the Zvw. In the Zvw it is primarily up to the health insurance companies to agree, in consultation with the healthcare providers, on the provision of necessary covid care and catching-up care and to make financial agreements on this. Health insurance companies, of course, pay these expenses by means of premiums. In addition, it is relevant to note that these premiums actually increased only slightly in 2022: €44, of which €13 due to additional salary increases. In addition, we have decided that health insurance companies will be compensated in 2022 if total Zvw expenditure exceeds the budgetary framework. This compensation is then 70% and is paid from the Health Insurance Fund. Thus, we reduce the risk and the Health Insurance Fund is partly filled by the income-dependent contribution, which is therefore income-dependent, through taxes and partly through the premium. Also, the macro framework MSZ is not a restriction. If expenditure is higher and exceeds the macro framework due to covid, VWS takes this into account when deciding on a possible overrun. In short, the results of the HLA, the results of the main agreement, the results of all the agreements made under the main agreement, are really separate from all covid care and thus from catching up. I should like to add that to reassure Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u244	I'll take a look at Mr. Hijink. Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u245	No one can tie a rope to what the minister says. I just have to think of those health care professionals who are following this debate, who I do not know how long they have had to wait until they get even €1 in salary increases after they have worked their ass off for almost two years, and now, today, they have been told that there is nothing extra in the barrel for the coming years, nothing extra to catch up on the huge backlog they have on other wages in society. That's the point I want to make here. You may cut me off, Mr. Chairman, but I would also like to tell this Minister. It's his responsibility, too. He could have started earlier. I think it is an embarrassment and a huge mistake that we now read again that there is nothing extra for the caregivers, apart from the normal indexing they get every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u246	Mr. Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u247	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am not responding to the statements about the new coalition agreement, but to what is or is not added. In recent years, serious money has simply been added: 6 billion in structural terms and 3 billion occasionally through bonuses. That's extra. For next year, too, this is an additional contribution, even on top of the system you know. Every year there is a salary allocation available to reach collective agreements in line with market developments. Mr Hijink knows that. That's why I don't think it's fair to say that caregivers wouldn't get anything. Because that's just not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u248	I have an addition to my colleague's question. We are getting signals that an emergency situation has more or less arisen, especially on the ic. The minister just came up with a general story. With the president's permission, I might be able to read a few sentences from an ICU nurse. He just apprehended us. She works in a hospital in the Eindhoven region and states that it has been decided in the hospital that they should work with one nurse every five or six patients. I quote now: "This means that as a nurse, I will soon be able to get five or six people under me. The quality of care then runs backwards. Suppose I'm running or changing, intubating, resuscitating or calling it all, and patient 5 has an emergency. Then patient 5 is just unlucky, 'cause I can't leave another patient. It's gonna be your family." And so on. She says we're being thrown all the way into the deep end. Now my question is the following. I haven't understood this in a year and a half. There is mainly on the ic, but perhaps also wider in hospitals, an emergency around the covid care. We acknowledge that, too. Then why aren't you bet on that? Why, for example, didn't you have a long time ago because you know that outflow is a major problem, and that the salaries of ic nurses are doubled or substantially increased and directed towards it? I haven't seen anything like that come by for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u249	Then you have read very little or understood very little of the letters I have sent about them. Much more important is this. You say that we are getting signals that there is a need on the ICUs. Do you know why that is? That's because there are people on the ventilator who haven't been vaccinated. That's because they've been questioned by disinformation. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u250	This is really outrageous. For starters, you're gonna have to deliver those hospital records I've been after for weeks. I just didn't get them from RIVM either. Then let's see what that division is like, 'cause I don't believe a lot of it. That's what it starts with. You are once again driving that wedge between vaccinees and unvaccinated people in our society. I ask you a very specific question. What, for example, have you done to reduce the outflow? What have you done about it? Did you raise the salaries? Have you launched a campaign to bring in ICU nurses? Have you done anything, for example, with the offer we made last year of some kind of boat with extra nurses? Nothing, nothing, nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u251	So what have you done to make the profession of ic nurse more attractive?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u252	Unbelievable. We have all discussed this very extensively and very often. The question is what Mr Van Houwelingen has done to help people overcome their doubts in order to be vaccinated. What has Mr Van Houwelingen done to counter disinformation? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u253	You have said this a few times, but now Mr Van Houwelingen is simply asking you a question about what you have done for the ic nurses. You're referring to a number of letters. I must say that there have been a number of letters that have paid attention to this. Anyway, I'm gonna give the Minister a chance to give him another shot at answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u254	Really a lot of natural, also in the salaring. There is simply room for good collective agreement agreements. For that, even extra space has been created. We have also had very wide-ranging debates on this issue. A lot has been done to recruit new people and to train a lot of people. A lot has been done incredibly. Nevertheless, it is incredibly busy in the care. There's a tremendous pressure on the care. That makes people have to make a lot of hours and just feel overloaded. That's true. The rack is out in the care; that's right. That has a reason, namely that too many unvaccinated patients enter the hospital. I like to keep saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u255	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. There are still a few themes, but we can now suspend for a dinner break. Why don't we just do that? I think it's a nice...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u256	I have a few more varia questions and I have a few things to say about the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u257	If you can do that quickly, we'll wrap it up. I would also ask colleagues to be a little more understanding and to be more sparing with the interruptions. Then we can finish the minister's part and suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u258	Yes. The long term. Mr Stoffer asks: Corona remains among us longer; to what extent are civil society organisations invited to consider this longer-term approach? I outlined to you last time what I am thinking of in this long-term approach. We will do so in a number of steps. At the end of January, I want to come up with a long-term approach that is really about the second half of this winter. This is an approach to a number of themes, namely the intervention system, so when you take measures, what measures are these, the scaling-up of care, so increasing care capacity, decision-making systems and organising more rest in them, and communication. We're not going to do that in splendid isolation; that's exactly what we're doing with all those people who could help us see how we can recalibrate that approach for the second half of this winter, and actually for the next winter. With the story for the next winter I want to come in February. In addition, it's not just the covid pandemic; you also want to learn lessons for next pandemics. We've talked about that before. That's what I want to come up with in March. For example, we want to conduct the long-term discussion in a good, structured way with each other. In doing so, we will enter into the conversation with a social sounding board group. The task of this social sounding board group is to keep the mirror on that approach from the point of view of society. There are, of course, a lot of ideas from many different sectors. That's not so much the point. It's mostly about how we're actually going to reinvent ourselves a little, because we know that corona isn't gone for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u259	Very briefly. This is exactly the point where I miss the Prime Minister. He made a commitment last time about the local Cathouse sessions led by mayors. That's what the Home Secretary would pick up. That's what I was specifically concerned with. Thank you for this answer, which fits very well, but in fact my specific question is whether the Deputy Prime Minister would like to urge the Prime Minister to comply with his commitment quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u260	He does. 'Cause I checked it out. We will see if the possible holding of Catshuis-like sessions with local partners, in addition to that social sounding board group, is a good way to have that conversation over the longer term with each other. The lead for these local sessions is best placed with local authority. Also, because of the source of the questioner, I don't expect this to be an invitation to work even more on Sundays, do I? So those local Cathouse sessions don't have to take place on Sundays either. That was the deal, wasn't it? Exactly. I can totally imagine that. What does the long-term review mean for the decision-making process? One of the elements is very consciously the decision-making process, I say in the direction of Mrs Westerveld. In decision-making, the way we come to decisions, more calm and more predictability must be organised, however difficult it is with a virus that really rarely adheres to the rhythms we had invented. The search is whether we could come to that decision with more order, peace and regularity, for example with a four-week cycle or a six-week cycle. We'll explore that with each other in the next few weeks. So that also means that we have to have the Corona debates with each other in a different way. We will also look carefully at what that means for the OMT opinion. That point has been made more often by you and how it relates to the decision-making process. But I think that, especially at a stage where there really is a new cabinet and in which many other issues about care will also have to be dealt with, there will really be more peace and space between the different corona debates. So I also think we should come back together with a proposal on how we conduct the debates. There is one thing I have to say about the CTB, because it also affects those long-term measures. Various questions have been asked about this, including by the SGP, the Animal Party and Mr Paternotte. What exactly is the implication of that omikron variant for using the CTB? That is at least that you are not going to use it in the very short term, but that was the case anyway, because we are going to continue the current measures and work with an evening lockdown. As regards the implications of the Omikron variant for vaccine effectiveness, I think that we should take into account the new assumptions regarding vaccine effectiveness against the Omikron variant before and after boosters in the research currently being conducted at TU Delft. It's gonna take a little more time. I would therefore suggest that we send the letter that we would send on 23 December in the first week after the recess. That is why it is also wise to answer all the questions raised in a further report in the note on the basis of the report, on the occasion of that letter. That also helps us to just include the latest information. That means that I would actually like to make the proposal to do so later, where I believe we are now calling for all the questions to be submitted at the end of this week. Then, in the first week after the recess, we send the answers, and we can take the latest knowledge and the latest research data with us. But maybe we should take this outside the broadcast...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u261	Just through the procedure meeting, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u262	We need to ensure that this is done through the procedure, but I did not want to leave it unmentioned, because it is just right to ask questions about the omikron variant and its impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u263	Then there's a cube of varia. I'm gonna see how many more questions that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u264	That's not so bad. I think it's about six, seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u265	Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u266	If the omicron variant shows us something, it's that we shouldn't bet on one horse. We see that a lot. I also noticed now that the Minister in his reply spoke a great deal about vaccination. That is also extremely important, but my question is what we are going to do to make sure that we can actually deal with this Omikron variant in the future, except for vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u267	I think we should actually focus on four elements. The most important thing is really vaccinating and boostering.... that I have just explained completely.... precisely because we see that the vaccines are only effective again after a booster. So it's gonna be real: all the balls on the booster. In addition, I think we should prepare for a different type of test policy. I have just explained that, following your own initiative paper, we have been able to make more intensive self-tests into daily practice. We are now overwhelmed by the 70% willingness to test for complaints. That's not 100% yet, so let's work on getting it up further. So that's the second horse we have to bet on: much more intensive testing. The third horse, which unfortunately is also just needed to keep betting on, is the anti-contact measures. But we prefer to use them as little as possible and as soon as it can we add the corona tickets, which will make the most open society possible again if it is safe. So we will really need those in the toolbox, and also the 2G-corona tickets and actually on top of that also the 1G+2G corona tickets, because they might add an additional safety valve to the application of corona tickets if it is exciting. But at least our instruments must also be in order. Finally, what you would rather never use, but which you should always prepare for, are the emergency scenarios that I also explained in the direction of Mr Hijink. We'll bet on those four horses at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u268	I would ask the Minister to really keep his eyes open and to be open to a much better testing infrastructure. As we have now arranged, more attention has been paid to this in the debate. Last summer might have been the idea: we need it this summer and then it's over. But we can see from these increasingly contagious variants, at least they seem more and more contagious, that it is very likely that we will have to test much more next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u269	In the coming month, in the next two months, we will recalibrate the trajectory. In addition, we need to look again at everything. We need to update everything and keep it under review, including the test infrastructure. How do we increase the willingness to test, especially in case of complaints? It makes sense that that will be part of that review. Then there's the Van den Berg motion. You know him about air cleaners. How's that going? When will the results of the study be known? Just in this winter air cleaners might come in handy. I've been following all the reports about that with great interest, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u270	Please answer the questions in concrete terms, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u271	Yes. Ventilation is the most important thing to do. That was also confirmed in the report of the RIVM, which was sent to the Chamber yesterday. It is still unknown at the moment whether these kind of air cleaners have any added value at all. But there is also a need for further research. RIVM started that investigation. There are also several international investigations into air cleaning. RIVM's bringing them in. I do not have a specific date when that investigation can be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u272	Last June, I mentioned the HEPA filters on aircraft. They also cleanse the air. Maybe they can be used in restaurants, too. Then I was laughed at; let me leave it at that. I tabled this motion in March. Then we received the message 6 July: RIVM cannot do the research itself, but must formulate an assignment. We've moved on for six months now. I just want to know who this research assignment was sent to and when will the results be obtained? I've got a lot of companies on the line. There will certainly be chaff under the choir. That's not what it's about at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u273	What's the status?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u274	It can really help us to know more about the effect of that air cleaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u275	There's really a strong hesitation whether it can actually help. RIVM says ventilation is always more important than air cleaning. Air cleaning really can't replace ventilation. The question of whether it can help has been investigated. You are now asking all kinds of questions that I really need to answer in writing. I really don't have it ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u276	I see that Mrs van den Berg agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u277	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u278	I would once again like to thank the Minister for the judgment of the Chamber he gave on the motion. It led to the report issued by RIVM yesterday. The conclusions are very important. The calculation shows that more ventilation leads to a less chance of getting COOVID-19 via aerogenic transmission. The report also shows that in a nightclub or a bar by getting ventilation to level, the number of infections could decrease by up to 70%. I regret that we do not have this until December 2021. A lot of valuable time has been lost. I would like to have said here that Mr. De Dog was miserable in the media last April. He was here early. The report's recommendations state that ventilation requirements are required for catering establishments as well as practical research. Will the Minister support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u279	Can I think about that for a moment and come back to it in the second term? It'll be a reaction to your motion. Shall we do it like this? Good. Why were DSM's mouth masks bought in, while the mouth masks were already unnecessary when they were purchased? That is a question from Mrs Van den Berg. In the spring of 2021 VWS added...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u280	Mrs van den Berg shakes her head of 'no' and I cannot quite place the question. I would also like to look at the Chamber to see if anyone else has asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u281	Maybe I've been misinformed. We discussed this with Minister Van Ark on 5 July. It was an initiative of the social employment services in Sittard. Minister Van Ark said "we're gonna take a closer look at that." I have tabled written questions on this matter. In fact, you notice that every time, last year in particular, we have to be self-sufficient in the mouth cap, and that now this initiative and also DSM's initiative, which both do it at the same price, is dying silently. We're gonna be shy again and Leiden's in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u282	There are a lot of initiatives for own production. And it is absolutely true: the commitment must really be self-sufficiency. Leading shouldn't be a burden anymore. It is therefore very good that all kinds of different companies have started to see a market in the production of mouth masks. As soon as it was possible again, hospitals have again bought personal protective equipment from their regular providers and probably also increased their stocks. It is not up to us to continue to enter that market if this is no longer really necessary. We see that security of supply has been significantly strengthened in the field of personal protective equipment. In any case, you are aware of the policy intentions with regard to iron stocks. We cannot continue to subsidise everyone who started an initiative for years. I can't. Then the provision of masks to the disabled. I always have a positive basic attitude when it comes to making personal protective equipment available, and at all, I say in the direction of Mrs Westerveld. If disability care could not do so itself, they could call on the LCH. If there's a specific donation request, we'll talk about it. It is tailor-made, and it must be about a social initiative. Then there is a question from Mrs Gündoğan on the OMT opinion on the usefulness and necessity of the widespread use of FFP2 medical masks among healthcare staff. I answered that question in the letter. In my view, it was your question whether I should ask the OMT again whether the current directive should be strengthened. I think that was Mrs Simons' question last time. I said we're gonna do that. The response of the OMT is that there is currently no reason to change policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u283	I continue to care about this, despite the advice of the OMT. I want to illustrate this with an example: you are a home care worker, you do not get a FFP2 mask, but you do get that 80-year-old within the distance of 1.5 meters to help with, for example, the support stockings and are not protected. It is expected that in two to three days' time omikron will show that there will be increases. I think we need to do everything we can to see with the social partners how we can improve this and do it more in line with the rest of Europe, so that we can improve the safety of our healthcare staff across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u284	When it comes to medical guidelines, it's not my move. That's what the specialists should do, because that's not our expertise. When I ask the question to those specialists it is not about availability, because they can have everything they say: there is sufficient protective effect through the medical mouth masks. They are also much more pleasant to wear than the FFP2 masks. Try running up stairs with one of those FFP2 masks. You'll be out of breath before you know it. These FFP2 masks are intended for aerosol-forming operations. This is particularly the case in hospitals, for example in the case of intubation. Those are the settings where you want to use them. Out there, the experts say, there's really no need. I am always willing to ask them again and again, but I think that when it comes to medical directives, we should really put specialists to work and not think for them what is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u285	In that basic attitude of the Minister, I can't tell you how sorry I am. But I hope that the Minister will also agree with me a little bit, namely that it is strange that a large part of Europe does and that, especially with the high lack of care staff throughout the chain and also with a variant that might be a doom scenario, a little more urgency and a little more precautionary principle would be in place. Winter is still a long time, so I would like to ask you once again to take a serious look at why there is a deviation from other European countries, because they also have excellent health advisory bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u286	And yet that is difficult, because that means that I have to compare the directives of the Netherlands with those of other countries. We should then set up a huge situation for that. In my opinion, the issue is never availability or money, or any other reason that doesn't matter. It's just supposed to be about safety. What is safe in a certain situation? We really should leave that to specialists. I'm willing to facilitate anything that comes out of it, anything. Only, it's really up to them to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u287	Finally, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u288	Finally. I understand what the Minister is saying, but I hope the Minister understands what I am saying and that the Minister, with Omikron and probably with increases in the number of infections in a few days, would like to see again what more we can pull out of the closet or use creativity to be better armed for this long, ominous winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u289	Always is, of course. That's always the case. If I get the slightest signal, from whatever angle, that there would be something to add to safety via the line of protective equipment, I am always prepared to work with it. Let me promise you that. Mrs. Van Esch asks where the playbook is. I wholeheartedly agree that it is good to evaluate the event on 26 November, and specifically the reception and testing of the people of South Africa. That conversation has already taken place with the Safety Region Kennemerland, the municipality of Haarlemmermeer, KLM and Schiphol. In that conversation it was agreed to have an external party do the evaluation. The preparations are under way. I expect this evaluation to be completed in January. Following this, new appointments will be made, which could then be included in an update of the roadmap. I have already said quite a lot about the use of disinformation. We do quite a lot of work on that. Perhaps it would be a good idea if, in another letter, I could inform you again about our approach to disinformation. Overvaccineren.nl is in any case a very nice website, which deals with all the stories that go around in the context of disinformation and have caused people to doubt. It is a good idea to pay as much attention to this as possible. I am trying to do that myself, but you are also very welcome to do so. Then the limitation of the validity of a DCC. Mrs. Van Esch asked in relation to the temporality of the CTB. We talk a little too much in abbreviations, sorry. DCC is the digital covid certificate you could travel with. The European Commission has said that we should actually limit this to nine months. At first, the Netherlands thought it could be 12 months, but I said: I think it is important that the whole of Europe does the same, so let's just say nine months. In the meantime, after Omikron, the question is whether it stays at nine months. There is a lot of dispute between Member States and that means that no hammer has been dropped over the nine months. I expect that in the short term and I will keep you informed of how the hammer will fall. In any case, I think that the CTB in the Netherlands, the corona access card, should relate a little bit to the debate in Europe, otherwise you will have to explain different deadlines everywhere. In the Dutch situation, there is a huge amount of implementation stuff behind it. I want to get a good look at that before I tell you exactly how we'll handle the corona tickets. In any case, if you want to work with corona admissions, the protection you assume should really be in order. To this end, all provisions relating to the corona access tickets must be related. I'd like to come back to exactly how that's gonna be. But the more European, the better, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u290	Thanks for the answer. My questions were actually a little broader about the development of such a European digital identity card. We now see the contours of that. It is also indicated that the Netherlands is involved in making it. In all honesty, I say that this is probably involving officials from the Ministry of the Interior. I can therefore imagine that this minister does not know exactly which officials they are. I will perhaps want some more information on this in writing at a later stage, because I think this is a worrying development. This goes way beyond the DCC that's in place right now. We see reports that the Netherlands would be involved as one of the leading players in Europe. My questions were specifically about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u291	I'd appreciate it if you could ask written questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u292	Yes. If the minister knows more about that, I'd be happy to. It couldn't be, I'll say in full coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u293	This is a little outside my scope. I have seen a story on this from the President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen. This is not a daily topic for the VWS ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u294	I propose that Mrs Van Esch ask written questions about this, as she offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u295	I would like this Minister to be involved at least, as this is largely about the health care and privacy of Dutch citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u296	A call. Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u297	I hear the Minister say something about the reliability of the corona ticket in a European context. That raises the question of how this is done in the national context. If, at European level, we cannot guarantee that the corona access pass has accurate information on infectiousness, immunity and whether you are protected, then that is true nationally, of course. I think we've had a regular conversation about that. So I'm just confused, I'd like to say, about how reliable this corona access pass is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u298	I think I have just answered that in the direction of Mr Stoffer. Then I did so in the direction of Mrs Van Esch, or Mr Paternotte, in two ways. One. At present, the corona access tickets are only used in conjunction with other measures. This means that I am not currently concerned about the current application of corona tickets. Two. Especially the Omikron variant and even the need for boosters do not immediately make sense to use corona access tickets in a 2G setting, so in a high risk setting. That is also because we should not have such activities at all, because the pressure on care is still far too high. In addition, I indicated more about the process that, in order to be able to conduct the debate on the legislation before us properly, I would ask for the letter to be sent at a later date. This means that we can also include the modelling of the new variant in the research currently being developed at TU Delft. In the next few days and weeks more figures will be available. We really want to involve them in that right away. That is why I would like to be able to send the letter I promised before 23 December in January, the first week after the recess. In this way, we can have this discussion in a very well-founded way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u299	The latter has not much to do with the question I asked, but I am glad that the Minister reiterates here that attention is paid to it. Back to the circumstances in which we deploy the corona pass, or the QR code. The Minister says that we are doing so at the moment in conjunction with other measures. Can I conclude from that that would not be the case at the moment when we have confidence in the accuracy of that pass in a European context? On the one hand, the Minister says that we are doing so now in conjunction with other measures and that we think that is safe enough. On the other hand, he says that we don't find a 2G situation safe enough to say that the QR code is accurate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u300	Maybe I should just say it more clearly. We have the CTBs to get back together in groups in a safer way. There's never a hundred percent guarantee, but it can be done in a safer way. At a very high infection pressure that is not safe enough anyway, so you also have to take at least other measures to do so safely. If you look at how we use the corona pass, you can see that this is always in combination with other measures. That's one. Two. We can see that there has been a decline in vaccine effectiveness over time. That's why we're boostering. The debate has arisen at European level: shouldn't you want to make this booster part of the corona pass when travelling? That's what I'm saying: yes, it has to be. And I also say: then you should actually do the same for the Netherlands, in some way and at some point. I would like to join what is agreed in Europe as much as possible. What exactly that will look like, I will have to work out in the next few weeks. I'll send it to your room. Can 2G still be used? Because that will be the follow-up discussion. My impression is yes, but not immediately, and only after the protection has been restored.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u301	Following Mrs van den Berg's example, I will try to make it smaller with a personal example. I hope the Minister can answer in a way my mother understands. I was double vaccinated seven months ago. I got a QR code. I'm far from in the race for a booster shot, but I'm still welcome anywhere with my QR code. So the fact that the Minister is describing the decline in the effectiveness of the vaccine is now also valid? I understand, because he is going to say that the QR code is being used in conjunction with other measures, but there is a contradiction here, as if the only option is: in combination with 2G, or otherwise not. I don't understand. Different circumstances are outlined each time, depending on the decision-making process. I just want to understand why, in a European context, we cannot appoint/accept/guard the reliability of the corona pass, but we can in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u302	I really think it's different. In the Netherlands, we are indeed using the corona ticket in conjunction with other measures. That is very relevant, because we are not just relying on the corona tickets at the moment. It can't be because of the infection pressure or because of the decreasing immunity. That's one. Two. You will be eligible for the booster in the very short term. In Europe, it has been said that you really want to make that booster part of determining the length of validity of the vaccination certificate, as a background for getting a travel certificate, in order to be able to issue such a DCC. Of that, I say: I think that is a very logical discussion. The nine-month deadline has currently been chosen in Europe, but that has not yet been definitively decided. I would actually find and want us in the Netherlands to make the booster part of the validity of vaccination certificates to issue a corona admission certificate. And I think it makes sense to go along with the European deadline. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no discussion as to whether the booster should become part of the corona access card, but there is a discussion about the time limit. I believe that this discussion will be settled first in Europe. Then, as far as I am concerned, we in the Netherlands are just following what is decided in Europe. In the meantime, there is no 2G. We will have to decide on this first. And when would we be able to use that? If the infection pressure is much lower. But then I would really like to use it, because it will enable us to do things again and open things up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u303	This raises the question of how there was one or two corona debates ago when I suggested that the corona pass should be adapted to the actual status of someone who was seen as impossible. After all, we could not intervene in the information contained in the QR code. That's what I was told by this minister. But if I understand correctly now, we can and are going to do so, in connection with people who want to use that pass or not. So a few weeks ago, it was impossible to interfere with the validity of that pass. That would be a huge problem. But now I'm hearing this and I'm just curious what happened in the meantime that it can and that that's even the Minister's wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u304	That was another question. That was the question: could you link a positive test result to going in with a corona pass somewhere or not? No, we can't, because that would be a huge privacy violation and that would assume that we have a direct link between a database of positive test results and a database containing people's vaccination status, and that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u305	That wasn't the question, but that was the answer I got. That's exactly the same thing. We now know that the immunity of people who were fully vaccinated seven to nine months ago has been reduced. We know that they are contagious, but certainly more receptive when immunity drops. We then know what their contagious status is or their admissibility status. We're gonna change it when they've had a booster. Whatever the reason, the fact remains that we can modify the QR code information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u306	What you can do is make that booster part of issuing the QR code. Of course you can. Also the length of the length of the recovery certificates, for example, we have adapted ourselves in the Netherlands to 365 days. I don't think it's sustainable either, if you see what omikron's doing right now. So we will have to learn over and over again how the effect is, how new variants relate to immunity that has been built up and what that says about the applicability of corona access cards. For an important part this is technique, but for an important part it is epidemiology and what is and is not wise to do in it. I am committed to following research and science. We are being advised by the OMT on this issue on an epidemiological level. On a technical level, we have to look at how we can adapt the use of the corona tickets to the latest insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u307	The last question, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u308	My last question. I had hoped that the strategy would be taken into account in the 'long-term' or'measures' block. Maybe it comes to the "varia" block, but okay, I'm standing here already. As I said in my contribution, they dance around it skillfully. The long term does not appear to be such a long term for the cabinet: it is about expert groups in the coming months. But I'm still very curious about the strategy. Which one's that? Because we are constantly being told a different strategy. Are we happy with the strategy chosen? Is the chosen strategy sometimes being evaluated here and there, for example in connection with KPMG reports, Nieuwsuur broadcasts and the like? CBS numbers speak of probably about 40,000 deaths. At what point is this cabinet going to consider the consequences of the strategy, the dead, the long-term sick and everything we don't know about long covid, now also in children, also out of respect for all those who currently suffer the consequences of the chosen strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u309	Choices in the approach, in relation to the scenario in which we are in, we will keep in mind when reviewing the approach. That's what we're gonna do for the next month. It is therefore about the intervention system: on the basis of which indicators do you send? I think that is very much in response to the questions that Mrs Simons has asked here several times. That's one. The strategy has not really changed, not even in the last 20 months. Nor do I expect it to change in the short term. That strategy has always been aimed at protecting vulnerable people, protecting care against overload, keeping an eye on the virus, and at the same time taking action. That is the fourth goal that we have added over time to prevent unnecessary economic and social damage. I do not expect that strategy to be changed. When it comes to learning how to live with the virus in the near future, you want to keep the measures in that strategy under review over and over again. That is why we have come up with a proposal for corona tickets based on 2G. That is a new way of dealing with the situation. I hope there will be many new ways. I also hope that with vaccination, boostering, but also with an adapted vaccine in the short term, we will be able to offer more protection through vaccination. Because that's part of learning to live with the virus, and that's not really a changed strategy. But that you keep your approach against the light every time within the strategy, do you do the right things and do things right? I don't think that's more than logical. Mr. Chairman. By the way, I expect Mrs Simons to be invited to the booster next week. You said, Mrs Simons, in a nutshell, that I am far from my turn. I've been googling for a while, and your age is on the Internet. That's public information. I expect you to get an invitation next week because you're so young! But of course it's just because that campaign is going so fast. Let me stress that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u310	I do not want to be interrupting, but I asked a question about technical preparation of the possibility of 2G-plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u311	That's part of the job. Anyway, it's definitely part of the app's customization. 2G plus 1G should be one of the possibilities. By the way, it is very difficult to implement this very widely. But as an option, as an application mode, you'd like it. So there too, we are looking at how we should shape that. We're not waiting for anything in terms of technical development, certainly not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u312	However, I would like to make it quite explicit: I mentioned the last point that the Minister wrote in his letter that he wants to stick to each time the temporary law is extended. As a CDA, we have already indicated that we really want a structural law. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it cannot be said that we have dealt with this letter today and that is why it is over and that is why that point is gone. I would like to make that quite explicit. I also hope that the Minister will take that with him. And I feel like I'm not the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u313	I've indicated that it's likely you'll need a few more extensions. You have often indicated that in the long run you do want to get rid of that temporaryity and that therefore you should actually adapt the Wpg, the Public Health Act, not to be in that temporaryity and the prolongation of that temporaryity all the time. I said about this in the letter: if you change the Wpg, the Public Health Act, you'd actually want to adjust it equally according to the lessons you've learned about the employability of the current Public Health Act in this crisis. The question is when are we going to do that? My assumption would be that you should actually want to do that, after you have actually taken those lessons, for example when all the evaluations of the OVV have been completed. I don't expect that to happen in a couple of days. In addition, such a genuine change in the system in the Wpg involves a legislative process that you have not completed overnight. That really is a long legislative process. We've gotten used to laws we deal with in a couple of weeks, but you're not gonna do that with such a big amending law for the Wpg. I am also in favour of eventually changing the Wpg, but I do not think that we should start tomorrow, because then we have not learned all the lessons. I think we'll just have to extend the current Twm in between until we get to that moment. That would be my assumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u314	Thank you. Mrs De Vries for her last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u315	I think I just missed an answer. Anyway, I'd like to join Mrs Van den Berg. I don't know if we should wait that long. But I have also asked a question about enforcement and I do not think the Minister has answered it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u316	We don't count them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u317	What has been the result of stricter enforcement? For the exact figures, please refer to the letter from the Minister of Justice and Security, which was sent yesterday. We do see that there has been more administrative action by mayors than in the weeks before. You can see that by the number of closures and the number of charges under penalty payment. The number of far-reaching measures is simply considerably higher than before. At the same time, we also see that the biggest profit we can still make is in the control of QR codes by entrepreneurs. That is why we have discussed extensively with the sector and the umbrella organisations what we could do to improve that control. In the same letter we go into more detail. But the main line consists of two parts...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u318	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u319	The Minister is still speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u320	Also to save time. I read the letter, of course. I have a specific question, namely whether the extra money that the cabinet wants to make available can also be used for enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u321	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u322	I am asking because a specific problem was mentioned in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u323	That's what we make $34.5 million a month for. That can indeed be used for enforcement. Just one second, okay? Yes, these temporary resources can also be used for additional capacity for control, such as security guards and inspectors. Yeah, that's exactly why we're making that 34.5 million available. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u324	Thank you. This, I believe, brings us to the end of the first term of the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.15 p.m. and then we shall proceed with the colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u325	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is nice to have the floor and to be able to say something in response to the questions that have been asked about the schools and very specifically about the decision taken by the cabinet to close the primary schools one week before Christmas holidays. When we talk about primary education, we talk about primary schools, schools for special primary education and special education. Mrs Aukje de Vries called this closure a bitter pill. I can honestly say that this is only the beginning of the reflection of my own feelings, not to mention those of the children, the teachers, the school leaders, the support staff and the parents. We didn't want this. We have always had the very clear commitment that we wanted to prevent generic school closures where possible and justified. The latter has always been the package leaflet, throughout the corona time. We've seen the moments when we couldn't. We know that when it comes to the number of weeks and months in which this was the case, there was a difference between secondary education and primary education. We have seen that the lockdowns and school closures have had a lot of negative effects and have caused damage when it comes to learning disadvantages. I recently sent the first monitor in the spring, right after the turn of the year, there is a second monitor coming up, which has indicated that there have been really large learning delays, but also that the mental well-being of children suffers from school closures. We have had this commitment, supported by the Chamber but also by the educational field itself, to put it that way. Over the past few weeks, we have been constantly watching how the virus developed, and we have been working to maintain that goal and this commitment. In the last few weeks, I'm actually talking about the end of November...The OMT asked the cabinet to consider the Christmas holiday extended on the front. We talked to your room about that. You know that we considered that at the time, but we did not draw any conclusions on that at the time. We also didn't say we weren't going to do it; we said we really wanted to take a moment to see how the virus was doing. We were talking about the delta variant. Of course, we also wanted to see the effects of the package of measures agreed, the package of 12 November and the package of 24 November, the second supplementary package. My colleague has just said that. Madam President. In addition, we did not sit on our hands and did not say: let's see how it develops. We have also discussed this with your Chamber, and we have expressed it in our letters. Because at that time, of course, we saw the contamination rates of the delta variant rise. At the time when we were not vaccinated, we saw a lot of infections in secondary education, and now we saw it happening in primary education. Especially in the older groups we saw really high contamination rates. So we didn't sit on our hands, in the vein of: we're just going to see how it develops and there will come a time when we're going to make a decision. No, we have agreed, in good consultation with the sector itself, with all its representatives, up to and including the parents, on a number of additional protective measures in the school. This is in order to maintain the goal that we felt so important to each other, namely that education could remain open and the children could continue to go to school, and to ensure that this could happen in a responsible way. That's what we've worked very hard for. Very recently we have for the first time taken measures in primary education that have never been taken, for example the introduction of self-tests. My colleague said just now when he said that millions were scattered. Indeed, last week, 2.4 million tests went to about 6,700 primary schools. To our information, everything has been delivered, perhaps except for a single school where the door has not been open at some point. Mr Hijink asked for that. He's not here right now, but he'll know. At the schools that closed the doors and where they could not be delivered, new attempts are being made. It must have been a handful, because last week the overwhelming, over-, over-, over-, over- of the schools received the tests at the front door from Monday to Friday. External persons need to be kept out of the door, so they were allowed to drag them in themselves. But they went there and spread to the students through the teachers and school leaders. As I have just said, we have considered what the OMT asked of us when it came to an extended Christmas holiday at the front. But we have also followed the developments of the virus. Why? If your goal is to keep the schools open, of course you're not going to make that decision two or three weeks in advance if you're still waiting: what are those packages doing? Are they really going to push down the spread of the virus? That's what we were hoping, of course. It's worked so hard. Is that what we're going to see in the contagion rates? That's what we wanted to see. At the time when we made a decision, we also wanted to include the last OMT opinion in it, so that if it was really necessary, we could do that well-founded and not just say out of the loose wrist: well, let's close the school; it doesn't benefit, it doesn't harm. That's the bet we've had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u327	Perhaps I could ask the Minister to finish his speech first. That's what the Minister asked for. Then there's room for the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u328	Sure, that'd be nice. Mr. Chairman. I'm also looking at last week's figures. We saw that the plateau had been reached and that there was a decline in it. We were happy about that. I say this also in my responsibility for education. At that moment I thought: I hope that is going to offer us enough opportunities and space to continue the goal that we consider so important. There was a very exciting, also from the public health point of view. My colleague here asked and, of course, calls for a great deal of attention to be paid to this. The OMT had also put the finger on the fact that the last day of school and the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ, as Mr Paternotte so beautifully described it, at once collapsed. Friday is the last day of school and Saturday is the first day of Christmas, indeed with the risks, just to put it in a way, that you, so to speak, walk at once to the Christmas table and sit there 70-plussers and vulnerable. We knew the kids could get infected. This has been emphasized by the OMT time and time again, and we saw that in the figures. Of course, much more was tested, but we saw it in the numbers. They mainly pass it on to each other, but they can also pass it on to the elderly. Then you just know that it's a risk when the contacts become more intense and you literally sit next to each other at the Christmas table, so to speak. That was an exciting one, but that was what we finally came to consider. Mr. Chairman. During that period, of course, everything was known about omikron. What we knew, of course, you got that also on paper from the OMT was that there was still a lot unknown, but that there was something going on around a new mutation, a new variant. In the advice the OMT gave us last week, I say by heart, December 6... I think that was the 132nd OMT recommendation. In the 132nd OMT opinion we read: these are all sporadic cases in the Netherlands, but there is a lot of uncertainty; we have to follow that closely. The OMT also made it very clear that, pending new information, we should be alert on omikron in the coming weeks. That is a literal quote from the opinion of 6 December. When we received new information from the OMT in the run-up to the Catshuissession last Sunday, it turned out that there was now much more information. That is not so strange either, because of course everything happened in the United Kingdom, also in the last week, and also in Denmark. As a result, the OMT was even more firm and clear about the fact that something was happening here that we had to be very alert about and that it was important that we face that. There was still a lot of confusion. You were able to read what was ultimately the conclusion in the 133rd OMT opinion, which came a week after the 132nd. Although there was a lot of uncertainty and we didn't know a few things, for example how sickening it is, and the OMT will also be using the next few days, in the coming week, to take even more information, it was expected that this Omikron variant would be in brackets within the foreseeable future: in January it would become dominant in the Netherlands and thus it would take over from the delta variant. And that, Madam President, so I say through you to the Chamber of Deputies, suddenly put an enormous strain on the decision that we did not want to take and which we hoped we would not have to take, even with the declining delta figures and the flow of the packages. We had to face again whether it would be justified to allow that last week, which is so important, not only because of the learning disadvantages, but also because of the mental well-being, think of the Christmas celebrations, etc., etc., etc. We've talked so intensely about that. In these 21 or 22 months of the covid pandemic, I have had a lot of conversations and a lot of discussions on very difficult subjects. I really thought this was one of the toughest ones, because we just didn't want this, but the signal from omikron, that penetrating signal that the OMT issued in that 133rd OMT advice, was there too. After the ink was dry, new information came in. In my view, Mr Van Dissel referred to this today: the United Kingdom data with all these figures. Mrs Westerveld mentioned the WHO opinion or the reporting and alert that came after this weekend. In the end, we had to take account of that in the decision we had to make. That was discussed very intensively on Sunday. We discussed this very intensively on Monday and Tuesday morning. Eventually, we had to make the decision in the MCC, taking into account everything, and I would like to make it quite clear: with pain in the heart, it was inevitable, that we had to do so on the basis of the many new information that had been added. We didn't have a choice. We could have said: let's wait a little while, because the OMT will continue to investigate and they will come at the end of the week. But we were late. Especially in the eyes of the Chamber, who would have liked to have seen that before. A motion has even been adopted, in which we indicated that we wanted to wait for that OMT opinion. We couldn't wait. If we had waited and had to do it next week, it would of course not have been possible in terms of implementation. That was the huge split we were in. In the end, we made this choice, which we communicated in your direction. The feasibility is, of course, still complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u329	Mrs Kuik finds this a natural moment to interrupt and I actually agree with her. Is that okay with you? Yeah? I call Mrs Kuiken of the PvdA for her final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u330	Mr. Chairman. I have two comments to make. Firstly, I find it disturbing that Minister Slob is pretending to be some sort of outsider in this policy, while he is part of the decisions that are being made. That's one. Secondly, the OMT has been advising on "do it or don't do it" for a number of weeks, and that is not just related to Omikron. So my simple question is whether you have said at an earlier stage: take other measures, which are heavier, to avoid precisely this scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u331	Two things. I have no idea why Mrs. Chicken thinks I'm acting like an outsider here. I give you, even with some emotion in my voice, for this really affects me, also what has happened here and why we had to take this decision. This is a reflection of what has happened here in the past week and also in the last few days, leading up to a decision that I myself have been completely part of. That's one. The second is: indeed, the OMT has given us consideration at the end of November to extend the Christmas holiday forward. I have also just indicated that we have been through this consideration, but that we have come to the conclusion that we are there at that time, and I am talking about the end of November; I thought that it was 26 November that we did not want to take a decision, because we also wanted to see the passage of the packages, which had just entered into force, in particular the second package. We sincerely hoped with each other I think there was no one missing in the line of the people who wanted to do that again would have the effect that the infections caused by the delta variant would have fallen because omikron was not in the picture at that time; it was a bit later that it had set foot in the Netherlands for the first time and that we should not take that most far-reaching decision, because that is how I really see it, of closing schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u332	Last question, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u333	I just didn't get an answer to my question. I asked: have you actively advocated other measures to prevent this? Second. How can it be that we still do not have an active plan to keep schools open safely? Ventilation out of order. Boosters for teachers out of order. Teacher's mouth caps aren't in order. Other measures are not in order. Yes! I do hold the Minister of Education responsible for this choice if he acts as a passive spectator in this decision-making rather than as an active part of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u334	I will come back to the measures and the toolbox, which is now very well-stocked for education when it comes to ensuring that you can provide education in a safe way. The moment the packages had the effect we hoped for, it wouldn't have been necessary to close the schools. Even though we were still faced with one very pregnant question, because the end of the school and the beginning of the Christmas holidays collapsed. But we said we're gonna follow it. We're gonna follow what it does. At the moment, once again, that the operation of the packages is such that the infections are going to become less, then you don't have to make such a far-reaching decision. That was our primary objective. I think it would have been very strange, perhaps we would have had the support of Mrs Kuik, I don't know; I didn't hear her argue for it in the last few weeks, by the way, if we had said three or four weeks ago, before we knew anything about the package, 'and yet we're going to close the schools'. No. Well, we've made the point. We have asked the OMT once more to provide further evidence of what they had in mind. You have seen this in the second opinion they have given. At our request, they explained this in more detail. We have also said to your Chamber: we have now taken additional measures. That was a lot, also some new ones we had not done before in primary education. We have all added them to the toolbox to achieve the goal we had. Omikron was already reflected in the opinions, but I would ask Mrs Kuik to put the 132nd and 133rd OMT opinions, when it comes to omikron, side by side. Then there's one week in between! In just one week, when it comes to omikron and when it comes to information that has come to us through the OMT, a lot has moved. Even after the OMT advice was finished, the ink was dry, new information came in. That's what's going on now. This will also result in an opinion coming to us next Friday. If your goal is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u335	I can't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u336	Mrs. Kuiken's question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u337	I asked: did you actively call for other measures to prevent this scenario, because it has been advocated since mid-November?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u338	Yeah, that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u339	I have the impression that the answer given by my colleague may not be the answer you would like to hear. But he's indicated exactly what's going on here. This is not about whether we are doing enough in the school to be able to provide education in a safe way. That's always a very important question. This is a different weighting. The OMT still says about this target group with regard to infectious disease that it does not make them so sick and especially infect each other, but that they can also infect adults. With the information we now have from the last few days, we know that the omikron variant can go around two to three times faster. If that variant is to be given space by this target group, which is therefore not vaccinated and is therefore more vulnerable, it also has consequences for the distribution of the omikron variant. That is a different reason than when you try to stay below 1 with generic packages and try to make sure that some very essential things can still go on. That is now the difference in the situation we are in, including in the weighting we need to make now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u340	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u341	Mr. Chairman. That's what we were in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u342	There's one more question. That is Mrs Westerveld's last question from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u343	I have a question that ties in with what I have asked Minister De Jonge. We know that the virus will probably stay with us for the next few years, maybe even longer. Then, of course, we cannot have to close the schools every winter because it is not safe enough. I would like to ask the Minister what else is happening. I know what's been done in terms of ventilation, but there's a lot more that can happen. So what are the plans now to ensure that teachers can really teach safely? Because there are still teachers in primary education, but also in secondary education, who have to teach with a window open, to name but one example, when we have been in this crisis for more than 21 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u344	Do you mind if I take that question with me later, because it is a very fair question about the block on the measures we have taken and what else might be needed? I would just like to say a few words about this far-reaching decision and the preparations that the schools need to implement in the end. Questions have been asked about this too. We know that schools would prefer simply to have a full working week for the introduction of these measures. That's five days. In the end, we were able to give four working days. There's also a weekend in between. So, if that is necessary, perhaps even next Monday there will be room for implementation of the final decision that the schools will then have to be closed. I say 'close', but there is an explicit exception to that, and that is that emergency care needs to be arranged. That is what we are now asking the schools to do, and they must prepare for it. This also applies to extracurricular care, for which, as you know, Mr Wiersma is responsible. The same measure has been proposed for this purpose. Emergency care is primarily intended for parents who have crucial professions, as we call it. If either of them works there, they can be called upon to do so. On national government.nl you can find that list. Secondly, there is room for the shelter of what we call "vulnerable children." The assessment of what is "vulnerable" is also really left to the schools. There are the professionals who can judge well for which children it is really better that they go to school next week as well. The OMT has actually only advised this for vulnerable children from special education. We have made this broader, as we have done with the other lockdowns. Also in regular education are vulnerable children, where it is not good when they are at home for so long. Sometimes they don't even have a very safe home situation. Of course, it's pretty intense to realize that. Sometimes there are very different reasons. So there's room for schools to let these kids go to school. I was gonna say "just let go to school," but it's an unusual situation. Very specific questions have been asked about special education. I know from the two lockdowns we've had that there are schools where most students still go to school, and that there are schools where that number is more limited. That won't be much different now. But it is the professionals in the schools who can determine that in the end. I think they can do that in a very good way. Yesterday, of course, I also had a very extensive administrative consultation with all the representatives of education, including those representing these schools. It's called the Specialized Education Sector Council these days. Nor have they made that request to me. Of course, they were pleased with the possibilities of making decisions in view of their own apprenticeship population. They've gotten that space full. In addition, the OMT has said: then proceed to the provision of online education. We have not, at the end of the day, imposed this obligation on the schools, taking into account everything, but also listening carefully to the unions, the teachers' representatives. Teachers, of course, walk on their gums. They've also done so much and hard work. So we have not imposed that obligation anymore. That also helps, of course, because that also means much less preparation time. We therefore believe that it should be possible to deal with the days we have given now. Of course it remains a very annoying and not nice job, but it is unfortunately one that has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u345	There is an interruption by Mr Stoffer. He was just a little early, Mr. Paternotte, but you can go first, I see. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u346	Let's talk about the last one. I very much agree that distance learning should not be compulsory for one week. With regard to special education, we have seen the concerns of different schools. Those schools said: we have quite a lot of vulnerable students and we want to be able to continue to receive them, even next week. I hear the Minister say that there is room for that too, and that this is exactly the same protocol as the previous lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u347	Sure. Yes. Unshortened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u348	Thank you. Your last interruption, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u349	The Minister points out a number of things which at least clarify the situation and also ease it a little. I was just thinking about the other side. I have one more daughter in elementary school. He'll be home next week and if I'm being honest, I'm actually thinking: quite fun! Because I'm also largely free, so I'll be fine. But of course there are a lot of parents who are just stuck. They think: oh, we don't have any days off and we both have to work. Yeah, you'll be stuck next week. You hear people say those kids can go to Grandma and Grandpa, but sometimes they can't, and then what? How does the Minister view this? And if parents can't go anywhere, have no days off, no more crucial professions, and no more vulnerable children, will the minister be careful? What's it gonna be? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u350	We know, of course, that was the case in the previous situations too, that such measures require a great deal, including the resilience of people, and the ingenuity to come up with solutions, one of which has indeed now fallen away, namely those of babysitting grandparents aged 70 and over. We have made it very clear that it is as good if the 0- to 12 year olds do not get there, precisely because we want to avoid that, and because this target group still has some vulnerability in it. From the previous lockdowns, we know that employers and employees have always tried, and often successfully, to make good agreements with each other. There are a lot of modalities in that. Sometimes there is also calamity leave. That is one of the most far-reaching regulations, by the way. So we also hope for that ingenuity, however difficult it may be. I know it's easy for me to talk here when you have to take care of it in your own place and still have to adjust a sleeve to this. But that could certainly not be a reason for us not to take this decision, because there really were very compelling reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u351	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u352	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the package of measures. In the past more than twenty months we have experienced, almost everything that could be used is also tried at different times. There is also a lot of experience built up in what to do. We have also seen, even in recent weeks, that most schools were able to move to a somewhat higher level of protection fairly well and sometimes quickly. Remember what we had to say in November. Then we said that there should be running lines in the school again, that there should be spread breaks and that externals should stay outside the door. All that needed to be organized for a while. That was sometimes easier said than done, but they did. And even a number of additional measures have been introduced in primary education. That's good. Education is the only sector in which we have taken very intensively the ventilation, more than a year ago. That is something that has rightly been and is being called for, and it has been taken up in the sphere of making a considerable amount of money available. Through the Home Affairs Regulations, because municipalities must also be involved, these funds have been made available to schools. I have already informed the Chamber that a great deal of use has been made of it. The first, the first tranche, is completely exhausted. There was even over-signed on it. That means that some 630 school buildings where that was not yet in order were given the means to put it in order with them. Those who had over-signed were 185 of them we could all provide from the resources of the second tranche. That second tranche of the subsidy scheme is still running until the end of January. It will also remain open, even in the coming weeks, when it's Christmas holidays. That is what I am saying to Mr Stoffer, who would also like to see thought being given to in those weeks. The schools can also continue to appeal to it. I already know that some 135 applications have already been accepted. So we are already in the 900 school buildings that have been able to work on ventilation with public funds in this way. And there's still money. There is even 160 million available in addition to the second tranche, which is therefore not yet exhausted. During the budget debate, the Chamber adopted a motion by Mr Bisschop, Mr Stoffer's colleague, to see whether this money could be made available more flexibly. The cabinet still has to respond to this, but there is also an ibo going to educational accommodation, which will also receive a cabinet response. That is, by the way, ahead of the Council of Ministers next Friday. Then, of course, there will also be an answer to the motion on this subject, which has been adopted. In addition, the schools are of course also at their own initiative. They also receive housing through the lumpsum. I know that these are always generic amounts, so it can vary from school to school, but they can also use resources from their reserves to make such provisions. Reserves in primary education have been very high over the past year. Then I'm talking about excessive reserves. We did something about that. So it's been pushed down. But there is still a lot of money in the sphere of excessive reserves in education. That can all be used for this. Such a CO-meter, for example, can be purchased. There is a very specific subsidy scheme in Belgium. But if we put the situations of housing in the Netherlands and Belgium against each other, I think we should get rid of them. There everything works through subsidies: this is what they have done. I think we have used our scheme much more widely and offer far more opportunities for schools than just hanging a CO meter in a local area, which you should also be able to pay from your school budget. We have updated the hand-outs, which have been known to the schools for a long time, every time that was needed through the Space-OK Knowledge Centre. The schools know exactly what to do and what to do in addition, especially if the situation in their own buildings is not optimal. Sometimes that has to do with the old age of the building. Sometimes something more and something else is needed than just putting all kinds of equipment in it. Staphorst. That always stays special, for several reasons. There has indeed been a very inventive firm, which was particularly involved in the air change. I think my colleague has already said something about it. Air change isn't the same as ventilation. It is of course quite nice to see that this works, but it can never replace ventilation. It is being investigated, to look at it anyway: is there also a relationship with the fact that there are suddenly fewer infections in Staphorst? The GGD says that there may also be an immunity because everyone is already infected, which makes it a bit quieter at the moment in terms of the number of infections. That's being sorted out right now. But anything that can contribute, and you can see in a time of crisis, that there is always a lot of innovation, even in this area, of course, is beautiful. Through the knowledge centre, we try to collect all this information and to spread it further to the schools and school boards, so that they can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u353	Thank you. Mrs Van den Berg, CDA, also for the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u354	The Minister just pointed out that a motion had been tabled asking to see if the money available could be used even more widely. I understand that until now it could only be used to physically adapt those buildings. I would like to ask the Minister the following. He himself mentioned air cleaning, besides CO-meters. Is he prepared to consider whether equipment that can lead to the same results but is less burdensome to organise can be taken and whether the money can be used for that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u355	First of all, of course, we need to know what the functioning of such innovations is. Why don't you take that Staphorst story? With all due respect and appreciation for what's happening there, I think it's a little too quick to think: if everyone puts such an air change device in their room, you don't have to adjust the ventilation anymore, so to speak, and everything's gonna be okay. No, I wish life were so clear. But that is without prejudice to the fact that it is interesting to further investigate what is happening there and whether it can contribute. That's what we do. I call Knowledge Center Space-OK. Until last year, I don't think anyone had heard of it, but now a lot of people know that this really is a very nice institution, where the knowledge is collected and where it is looked at how it can be spread in a manageable way, in this case among the schools. That follows very closely these kinds of developments. There are many more than this example. Here's one that made it to the national media. It's important to stay focused on that. If it would be necessary and it could help if financial support were provided, that would of course be something that should also be considered. A large amount of money has been made available. But just as businesslike: if you look at the amount of schools and how much this type of investment costs, of course, much more is needed. That is what this cabinet has said: we are doing this now. It is now up to the next cabinet to look further at this and, if necessary, to make funds available for it. I haven't had time to look at all the papers today, so I don't know if it's in there. In any case, it is a task that will come back again. Mr. Chairman. In any case, it is very important for me and my colleague, too, to look ahead again and knowing that the virus is there, to use us to the maximum again for the purpose that I set at the beginning. As long as it is possible and justified, we want education to be able to continue. That was our commitment and that remains our commitment. We sincerely hope that after Christmas the schools will indeed be able to open up again. I must always give the package leaflet 'if it is justified and possible' and that will be seen in the current state of affairs. As far as we are concerned, that is what we are aiming for. We will have to relate each time to the virus and the form it has assumed. That's what we're learning right now. We thought that with the measures taken, making school education safe could continue. We have made the most of it and in that sense the goal has been achieved, but now we are in a completely different film. It is no longer a question of whether it is safe enough in the school or whether we are getting the R below 1 with all kinds of generic measures outside the school, so that the school can remain open. It's different now. Because this group has not yet been vaccinated, the virus is going around at a much higher rate and so unvaccinated children can become infected more quickly. We sincerely hope that the other answer to this situation, the 'boosting, boostering, boosters', as Mr Van Dissel said this morning in this way in your direction, will once again help to get a picture of the goal that children can go to school and receive the education that we consider so important to them. Mr Van Haga asked a question about the exams. I refer him to last week's oral Question Time, in which I indicated very comprehensively in the direction of Mr Van Meenen of D66 the state of play regarding the preparations for the exam. I can report to the Chamber that the board meeting this week could go on. Because I had to be present at the votes last week, it had been postponed. If it works out, and we've had good discussions with each other, I'll try to bring out what our thoughts are about completing the exams next Friday. The Chamber is aware of this, because I informed the Chamber this week that Members will have until the first week of February to give their opinion. To save a little paper, I think you don't need a motion at all right now. You are very welcome to attend the meetings to follow what is being discussed with the Chamber on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Then I have answered the questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u356	There is another question from Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u357	I asked a question about CO meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u358	I just said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u359	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u360	Then I guess the answer is we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u361	No, CO-meters are fully in the recommendation we made to the schools, that it is very wise to ensure that a CO-meter is present in the premises. In addition, it is, of course, also important to take all the other measures for which we make the funds available. When the funds are used, they can also be bought for them. I have also indicated that there are other forms of funding available as schools, such as housing in the lump sum, and that there are also reserves available. Every school can buy CO meters and I also see in a lot of schools that that happened. It's a little late for you to start thinking about that now. In all the handouts and advice given, this was a part, also through the Space-OK Knowledge Centre, which I was just talking about. In Belgium, very specific subsidies have been given for this. I have indicated that if we compare our policy on ventilation and what we put in resources there with Belgium, we will be able to do very well. Again, the CO-meters are just part of the advice we have given schools on what good measures they can take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u362	I would like to thank the Minister for his contribution. We will start immediately with the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that the booster campaign is accelerated. We hope that every effort will be made to do so as soon as possible. We also hope that at the beginning of 2022 there will be a plan of action to further shape the boosters of 2022 and possibly further. Then shortening the validity of the corona pass. We assume that this will also take into account the progress made with the booster campaign. Both ministers indicated that it is a bitter pill that Christmas holidays for schools start a week early. I was hoping for a little more self-reflection. I think it would have been wise if we had taken that decision earlier, because at that time it was already clear that omikron was a worrying development. I have to tell you, I'm looking at Friday with a little bit of tension when there's an OMT advice coming up. I would also urge the Minister to speed up the longer term, when it comes to this and the coming winters. The letter indicates that money can be used for control and compliance. My question was specifically whether it could also be used for enforcement. I think that's a little different. Finally, Mr President. I do not know if this is the last debate we have with this minister as Minister of the United States of America. There's something I want to say. I think we play too much on the person here sometimes. We have seen a few examples of this today. I do not think that is a good thing. As far as I am concerned, you can and may be very different from each other, but I would like to express my respect for the Minister and my appreciation of his commitment and perseverance. This often happens in a raw environment, which often attacks people personally. I would like to express my appreciation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u364	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u365	Mr President, thank you to both ministers and to all the people of VWS and OCW who have participated in this debate. I hope that, after this debate, they will be able to get back to work on boosters, boosters, boosters and the further roll-out of this campaign as soon as possible. Just a few more points. Thank you for the commitment to list the pros and cons of being able to include in the BIG register that pharmacists can also prick, as happens in most countries in Western Europe or has just been introduced because of corona. When can we get it back? I hope we can have it in January. I think it's good to be able to do that, especially if we have to pick up the fine-meshed vaccination further. Thank you also for the commitment to stay in dialogue with the GGD and the pharmacists. The GGD was positive about the pilot shots at the pharmacies. I hope they continue. Thank you also for the commitment to technical preparation of 2G-plus. Let me ask you a question about the corona tickets. Many have asked how these vaccines work exactly with omikron. Mr Van Dissel and many studies have recently shown that many infections are re-infections. There are countries that are now abandoning the recovery certificate, such as Sweden. Is that also considered critical when we look at serology? If the recontaminations are standard, what good is a recovery certificate as part of the corona pass? I think that we should also ask that question honestly. Thank you once again to both ministers. Above all, I hope that there will be a lot of speed with the boosters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u366	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the latter in the direction of Mr Paternotte: a positive test does not mean that you have corona. Sometimes it can happen that it's found in the nose and that someone doesn't get corona until later. Then it is considered a re-infection, while it may also be the first infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u368	I was relying on the signals from the South African RIVM, which indicates that a lot of people who go there in hospitals have re-infections. Mrs Agema may think differently, but I would like to mention what I read about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u369	I don't think we think differently, but I'd like to tell you that a positive test doesn't necessarily have to be an infection. So you can be tested positive twice and only have real corona the second time. We don't have anything better than the PCR test, but medically, that's a bit of a complicated situation. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to adopt the recommendations of the RIVM study Effect of different ventilation quantities on aerogenic transmission of SARS-CoV-2, on ventilation guidelines for the catering industry and on conducting practical research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1639]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u370	Besides, there's something else that's bothering me. We have said before: if the schools close earlier, it could be that Grandpa and Grandma will come to pick up the children. That could be another risk. I think it's a bit of a shame that children seem to be a problem. I'd be very sorry if that image was created. We read in Dutch research by Patricia Bruijning that two out of three children have had corona. The complaints they have are very, very mild. When it comes to contamination, the elderly must also think of a clover coat day as in Sappemeer. Even a death came from that. Or the outing of former roommates, where more than half of the people are infected. I would be very sorry if children were made a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u371	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say a few words, especially towards Minister De Jonge. We can have a difference of opinion. We, as CDA, even have that with the minister of our own party. I do like that we continue to speak with respect. I had a bit of a problem with that today. I've never played football myself, but I've always learned that you play the ball and not the man. That's what I wanted to say. Many thanks for the answers and also for the Minister's commitment to assess the state of affairs regarding the investigation of air cleaners. It is also good that we have medium and long-term plans. I sincerely hope that innovation can be an important part of this, and also that it can be easier to deal with people who are willing to help or to volunteer. Mr. Hijink will come back to that later, but I'm sure I'll give you one example I got: "As a retired GP I wanted to do something in the booster campaign and I signed up. Now I'm in a job application procedure, complete with resume, employment and vog, while I just wanted to volunteer. How hard can we make it?" That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u373	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I agree with everyone who says: with the attack on the person we are not making much progress. We should not do that, and that does not make the debate any better. My experience is right: the less rude you play on the person, the harder you can be in your political criticism of the cabinet or of a minister. So I think we should keep playing it through that band. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. One is indeed about what Mrs Van den Berg just mentioned. That is the way the booster campaign is now being carried out. It is sometimes unnecessarily bureaucratic. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of completing the booster campaign as soon as possible;]] [[noting that not all people who could assist in this are currently employed, due to complex procedures;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that volunteers and healthcare providers can be deployed more quickly and easily in the booster campaign,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1640]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u375	Then there's the second motion. It's about education. I would like to present it with Mr Paternot. No, Fathernotte. That's to make sure that we're going to do everything we can in the new year to get the education started right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the closure of primary education in the very short term poses many challenges for children, teachers and parents;]] [[points out that the closure of primary education must be a very last resort and that it will only be used in the new year if all other means are exhausted or if the virus poses a direct threat to the health of children themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1641]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u376	Thanks for that. I very much agree with this call. That's why my name's underneath. But Mr Hijink said that everything must be done to keep education open. In my view, this could also be the case, for example, for us to use corona tickets more widely, for example in the retail sector. My question would be: does Mr. Hijink, like me, mean to "put everything on top of everything"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u377	I'd be happy to get your name back underneath, if you'd prefer. We're going to have another debate about 2G later. In fact, the schools will open if it is well before we have had the entire legal treatment of 2G. I think it's pretty clear what we're talking about here. I am talking in particular about all the contacts that may still exist, for example during the day, in the catering industry, in the shops and in other economic sectors. We need to look at that before we grab the means of school closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u378	Agreed. I'm for 2G, but I didn't mention 2G. I was talking, for example, about the application of a law that is already there, concerning the corona tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u379	I get that. But you know how we feel about corona tickets. They're not in this motion for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u380	Maybe just to understand the motion. I am already getting some indication, I think, but we want to be able to judge the motion properly in order to determine our voting behaviour. Does this motion mean that first the catering industry should be closed, first all the culture should be closed and all kinds of other things and sectors should be closed down, and then that school closure can only be discussed, even if, for example, all the infections take place in primary schools? That makes a lot of difference to me for the assessment of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u381	Yes, I understand. In due course, I assume, we will get a new opinion from the OMT on where the infections occur and what measures can be taken to ensure that we keep the virus under control. That's how we have to look at it. We want to say: do not take too quickly the measure that is so hard to deal with the lives of children, teachers and parents. The closure of schools, as the cabinet has actually said all along, must be a last resort, if there is no other way. Then you must look first at other sectors and other measures, which may not yet be implemented. What these measures are, then, will ultimately be another subject of the political debate here, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u382	I think that everyone agrees that this should be one of the last things and that we should ensure that we can keep the schools open as long as possible. But I do hear a bit that in this situation the catering industry should be completely closed down when it has already had quite a blow that the whole culture should be closed down and that we should take all kinds of other drastic measures. If that's the way it's supposed to be, then I find this motion difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u383	Let me give you an example: I remember that we had the discussion about curfew. That was the beginning of this year, I think I've completely lost it. Yeah, it was in February. Then we also had the discussion: are we going to take children's right to education, or are we going to ask adults not to go anywhere at night? I think these kinds of considerations need to be made. I'm not saying I'm pleading for curfew. I say: if a package of measures is proposed, then at the very bottom of the list should be the closing of schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u384	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u385	Mr. Chairman. There is a good chance that next week we will be talking again, because Omikron still brings the necessary uncertainty. At the same time, we have been in this crisis for two years now and always feel like we are chasing the competition, without having an immediate picture of how we are going to prevent it in the future, when it comes to schools, when it comes to entrepreneurs and when it comes to care. That's why we're gonna have to move on to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the signs of the infectivity of the omicron variant are very worrying and the effectiveness of vaccinations against this variant appears to be limited;]] [[considers that the cabinet has failed to act sufficiently quickly and decisively;]] [[Whereas this lack of effectiveness has led to serious situations in care with large and life-threatening situations for patients;]] [[considers that the precautionary principle should be guiding and that additional measures are now needed;]] [[believes that keeping schools open should be the first priority;]] [[calls on the Government to take as soon as possible measures to reduce the number of infections, including closure of non-essential sectors and the catering industry, and to maintain these measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van Esch and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1642]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this is a pretty rough week, too. We've been in this situation for over 21 months. But instead of learning to live well with the virus, we are in the situation that the schools are closing unexpectedly and we are going to have a Christmas and an old and new one where it is still very uncertain what will happen next, among other things because there is a more contagious variant in our direction. We're not ready for that. That is also one of the reasons why I am under Mrs Kuik's motion, which calls for everything to be done and for education to be given priority. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 55% of the positive corona tests at the GGD are a confirmation test of a self-test;]] [[noting that FFP2 covers provide very good protection and prevent contamination;]] [[noting that both FFP2 masks and self-tests contribute to the containment of the coronavirus and this is of great importance given the rapid advance of the omikron variant;]] [[Whereas the OMT recommends the use of self-testing during the holidays in order to prevent contamination;]] [[calls on the government to make available to every Dutchman a covid Christmas voucher, so that everyone can collect an FFP2 cover and self-test free of charge from drugstores and pharmacies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1643]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u387	Mr President, one last comment. This is perhaps the last debate with both heads of government. Minister De Jonge looks surprised, but it might be his last time. I want to thank them both. Of course, there have been differences of opinion, but I know that both directors have a tremendous heart for the matter and have worked very hard over the past few years. I would like to thank them very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u388	There is a question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u389	It's Christmas in nine days. Do I understand that, while there must be a massive scaling-up of the booster campaign, the Ministry must develop a voucher and send it to all Dutch people and ensure that all the drugstores contain FFP2 mouthpieces and self-tests that can be collected with that voucher?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u390	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u391	Is there an example of where that has happened in the world at that rate, when you actually have to do something with enormous urgency, partly at the insistence of the RIVM, which says: boosters, boosters, boosters? I don't see it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u392	Of course, there are more things that help to control infection rates, including the use of self-tests and good mouth caps. What we propose is that every Dutchman can make use of it. There is no doubt that 17 million Dutch people are going to do that. But we do want to propose that, precisely to ensure that we get through Christmas and old and new, somewhat safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u393	I have the same problem. I think it is a very sympathetic proposal, but it seems to me quite impossible to ensure within a week that in all the drugstores there is a nice package for every Dutchman with both a test and a mouth cap. I just don't think that's possible. That's kind of my problem. I would like to vote for it, just because I like it, but we should not fool people either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u394	We have an e-mail from the chairman of the industry association of drugstores, which indicates that this should be possible. We have made this motion on this basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u395	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first of all like to endorse the words of thanks that Mrs Westerveld has already expressed towards this VWS Minister. I would have liked to have been here before Christmas to talk to this minister about the plan to deal with zoonoses. That's a favorite subject of mine to talk to this minister about. Unfortunately, the plan is not there yet and so we cannot yet reflect on it. However, I can briefly reflect on tonight's debate. I can particularly endorse the words of the Labour Party and GroenLinks tonight. After 21 months, it still feels like we're constantly chasing the facts and we're bumping from measure to even heavier measure. We too are very concerned about the rise of the omikron variant. We fear that perhaps next week we will be back here to discuss even more stringent measures that are needed. That is why we believe that it is absolutely essential to co-sign the motion of the Labour Party. As far as we are concerned, closing schools is really the final stage and other measures are needed in the first instance. We therefore do not see sufficient reason for this at the moment, and we therefore wholeheartedly support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u397	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u398	Thank you, Mr President. With other colleagues I distance myself from the remarks to the Minister. I thought it was inappropriate and I hope that we will continue to debate the substance. I've got two motions. The first one actually looks at a phrase from the minister in which he really tried to think about how precisely those tests can be helpful in the omikron time, which we unfortunately enter into. He even talked about making the Christian Union happy. Well, you don't necessarily have to, but this motion might be a very good idea. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas self-testing after the holidays helps to detect corona infections and makes the start after the Christmas holidays safer;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a national test day after the holidays,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bikker, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1644]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u399	I would like to point out that this is a voluntary self-test day and not all kinds of investments that the government should be making. But she's got to do that promotion! Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas last winter the government offered a package of support to municipalities to strengthen initiatives for the well-being of young people and vulnerable groups, and for healthy lifestyles;]] [[Whereas the current lockdown measures are extended until at least mid-January;]] [[calls on the Council to review the results of the social and mental well-being and lifestyle support package, to evaluate the approach and results and to inform the Court thereof;]] [[calls on the Court to examine the desirability and possibility of a new support package of social and mental well-being and lifestyle, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Stoffer, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1645]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court had previously indicated that it should not rule out a vaccination obligation;]] [[Whereas it is important for people who do not want to be vaccinated to know where they stand;]] [[calls on the government to indicate what unvaccinated people can expect in concrete terms with a possible vaccination obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1646]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u401	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the coronapas has been introduced to serve public health and is of a temporary nature;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the corona pass will not be used for any form of digital identification in any way;]] [[noting that this is already happening elsewhere in the world;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the temporary corona pass, serving public health, is not extended to cover other personal data or personal characteristics,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1647]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u402	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court does not rule out a vaccination obligation;]] [[Considering that in the press conference of 14 December 2021, Demissionary Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, Hugo de Jonge, stated: "And do you attach so horribly to your right, your freedom to say no to vaccination? I'm not gonna accept that. For that right, that freedom, can never be more important than the other's right not to get sick."]] [[Whereas, in Austria, penalties and prison sentences shall be imposed on unvaccinated persons as from 1 February 2022;]] [[points out that unvaccinated people should never be fined and/or imprisoned for their choice not to be vaccinated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1648]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u403	About the first and the last motion. We are not in favour of a vaccination obligation, but the tricky thing about such motions is that we have not had the debate here in the Chamber. We do not yet know what the possible considerations are and such a motion always says 'the Chamber, heard the debate'. We haven't had that debate yet. That is why I would ask Mr Van Houwelingen not to table such motions. I find it very complicated to vote in favour of this type of motion or against this type of motion, because that discussion has not yet been held here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u404	Thank you for your question. I'm so glad you asked me that question! I noticed that you had asked a question about this earlier on Twitter. You call this 'wapper moves', but the point is, of course, that is how we see that at least we see that more and more freedoms are being progressively restricted. Some of what you call "wapper emotions" even come out shortly afterwards. Take, for example, that 2G motion. Your colleague Bikker then walked forward and said: how can you file this? But two days later, the OMT came up with that advice. I think it is important for the Chamber, for us politically, for the art of foresight to strike a few pickposts from time to time. I don't think that's an unusual practice. That's all we're trying to do with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u405	I understand what Mr Van Houwelingen is saying here. Of course it's politically forward-looking. But politics is also a fundamental debate. And that is precisely the tricky thing with such a complicated subject as the corona virus, where there are sometimes measures taken here that I really didn't think possible a year and a half ago, because there's a high-risk virus coming this way, which we're all not waiting for. But I find the difficult part of this motion that no one here in this Chamber has proposed that there should be a vaccination obligation. There is no concrete proposal from the cabinet. I have not yet heard a single parliamentary group say: we must do this; I am going to put on the table a proposal to ensure that there is such a duty. Yet we are forced to vote in favour of this kind of motion. I find that complicated. Let's have that discussion, if it ever comes, here and then vote these kinds of motions, as far as I'm concerned,... I mean we'll vote the idea out, but we will vote it out after a discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u406	I understand you're finding it difficult. I believe that these vaccination requirements have also been introduced before. We're not the first to do this. Then it is also interesting to see that the Chamber has apparently changed its mind. Or do you see this differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u407	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u408	I don't blame you... It is true, there have been many motions in the vein of: we should never do this. And that's what's getting more and more. And we have said to each other quite a few times in the Chamber: there are so many motions that sometimes the value of motions is almost lost. I think this is precisely the reason why we keep making motions, sometimes motions on fines, Mr Kuzu has sometimes tabled such a motion or motions on no vaccination obligation. I believe that this is the fourth or fifth motion on this issue. That's what makes it complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u409	Thank you, again. I understand what you're saying. I also sympathise with you, because Mr Van der Staaij has already said once that we must stop diarrhea in motions. But these are, at least for us, very important matters for our party, very fundamental. That's why we're filing these motions. I wouldn't do that with every wipe, of course. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u410	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. By the way, I think it would be a good idea to look again at the possibilities of appreciation of motions, because I do have a feeling that it is difficult if we have not debated a motion. But I shall come back to that once more to the Chamber, because I see this discussion more often. Mrs. Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that several colleagues have already said that we should play on the ball here and not on the man. I am happy to endorse that, because I think that we should have a strong disagreement here, but that we should try to leave the people whole. From here on, I would also like to thank the Minister. I know that the Minister has gotten a lot over him, up to and including making his address public. That's definitely not the way it's supposed to be. That seems to me to be a very difficult time for you and your family, while, I think, you have done what you thought you had to do in your honor and conscience. We do not always agree, but thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. Then I would still like to table one motion on disinformation. I think there can be a little more creativity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that disinformation plays a major role in preventing people from being vaccinated;]] [[noting that disinformation in general is dangerous, but from the pandemic it is literally dangerous because of the threats towards politicians, scientists and doctors among others;]] [[noting that social media are acting little or no proactively in this regard;]] [[calls on the government to increase its creativity, as has also been done by Australia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Chicken and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1649]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u412	Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the longer term closure of physical education is detrimental to the development of children and leads to additional delays;]] [[calls on the government to reopen all physical education after the extended three-week Christmas holiday and to use the holiday period to intensively support schools in further reducing infections, for example by providing additional financial support for ventilation and air cleaners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1650]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u413	Then the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pupils in special primary and special education are in a vulnerable position;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt special primary and special education from the ban on the provision of physical education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1651]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u414	Mr. Chairman. A lot of heartfelt words have been spoken by colleagues, including towards the people in trade union K. I'd like to join that. We have been given a gift as parliament over the last few days, the power of tranquility of Mrs Mirjam van der Vegt. I don't know if the minister got the book, too. I assumed that all the parliamentarians got it. If not, at least I can recommend it. But I certainly give Minister De Jonge the power of rest in the coming days. It's up to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u415	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u416	Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the evening lockdown has a serious impact on the sporting activity of Dutch citizens;]] [[noting that half of the Dutch have started to exercise less as a result of the corona pandemic;]] [[whereas the evening lockdown measure, although theoretically, allows for daytime sports between 5 p.m. and 5 p.m., is in practice unfeasible for millions of Dutch people;]] [[Whereas sports and exercise have a positive effect on the immune system and general health is part of the solution in the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the government to include sport as an essential sector and to keep it open until 8 p.m.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that physical inactivity was the fourth largest cause of death in the world as early as 2012;]] [[noting that, as a result of the corona crisis, the sporting activity has only deteriorated and even decreased by half in 2020;]] [[Whereas this has cost as many as 46,000 healthy years of life;]] [[noting that according to the NOC*NSF, the current evening lockdown has led to another quarter of the people less sport or even completely stopped sports;]] [[Whereas a decrease in sporting activity also has a negative effect on resistance and therefore on susceptibility to the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to establish an incentive policy for sport as part of the Corona policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1652]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1653]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the outflow of ic nurses is high;]] [[Whereas it is important to improve career prospects and mental and physical health in order to prevent outflow;]] [[Whereas one way of achieving this is to allow nurses to rotate between different parts of the acute axis within the hospital, so that nurses can alternate heavy work on the ic with work in departments where the load is less heavy;]] [[Whereas, in this way, 350 to 450 additional PACU beds can be created in the short and medium term, provided that there is a rate for this;]] [[invites the government, together with the Dutch Association of Anesthesiology, to explore how the acute axis can be organized differently to prevent outflow and create additional PACU beds to help more patients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research published in The Lancet shows that heterologist boosters and in particular vector vaccine following a mRNA vaccine or vice versa are the most effective;]] [[calls on the government to consider whether this can be used as part of the booster campaign,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that GPs are used to booster non-mobile home residents and residents of healthcare institutions without medical service;]] [[Whereas general practitioners have indicated that the priority for them is to continue the care;]] [[Whereas the non-mobile home residents were also in line at the back of the first vaccination campaign;]] [[calls on the government to monitor the progress of the general practitioners and to intervene in time and to scale up with other pricks, so that these people will be given a booster before the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1654]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1655]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1656]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u418	I would also like to address myself specifically to the Minister for Health and join my colleagues. You don't always have to agree functionally with each other to personally have extraordinary respect and appreciation for the commitment and hard work under very difficult and sometimes dangerous conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u419	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u420	Thank you, Mr President. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the decision to close schools was taken very late by the cabinet;]] [[Whereas this causes a great deal of unrest, both among children, parents and the schools themselves;]] [[invites the Cabinet to make a decision on the re-opening of schools after the Christmas holidays by 1 January 2022 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is closing down schools;]] [[whereas UNICEF believes that school closure has a huge impact on children;]] [[whereas children now have no voice;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to involve minors in the long-term policy on issues directly affecting children and children's development from 2022 onwards, starting with covid policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that polarisation in society has increased enormously during the coronapandemic period;]] [[noting that the government-led division reduces support for (corona) measures;]] [[Whereas the public authorities should properly link groups of people in society;]] [[Whereas "words matter";]] [[calls on the cabinet to stop making polarizing statements about vaccination and to make a recovery plan to reconnect groups of people so that we can fight the pandemic together again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1657]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1658]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1659]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u421	I hope the President will allow me to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u422	Sure, but before you do, I think there is another question about a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u423	I would like to ask Mrs van der Plas whether the government can actually make statements about vaccination, based on science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u424	Actual statements can always be made. I am referring to statements such as 'it is the pandemic of the unvaccinated' and 'it is antisocial and decadent'. That's what I'm talking about. I think Mr Paternotte knows that too. Facts are always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u425	There was something you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u426	Sure, in line with the roommates. Nor have I always agreed with the Minister; not always, not entirely. But of course that doesn't mean that if you have a discussion on the content... I've always seen it: I have a discussion, a debate, with the Minister, Minister De Jonge. Mr Hugo de Jonge as a person, of course I have nothing against that. I always find it very annoying to see people really get personal here. I'm gonna distance myself from that. I hope that the Minister has not taken my debates with him as personal attacks. You have to play on the ball all the time and not on the man. I wish the Minister and also the other Minister, Minister Slob, very happy Christmas, with family, with friends, with bright spots, and hopefully also a healthy New Year. Thank you both for the hard work, because that was not the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u427	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Where's your iPad?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u428	I just forgot that one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u429	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u430	But that's also because I only have a motion to table. I don't have any other lines. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet agreed that the policy strategy on corona had opted for the "controlling" of the virus;]] [[noting that "checking out" means that the virus should be able to spread as long as hospital capacity allows, resulting in group immunity, and that therefore the aim of the policy strategy is not to contain as much as possible and prevent infections;]] [[noting that recently released Wob documents show that this strategy has been deployed despite the possibility of many thousands to half a million deaths;]] [[whereas a recent KPMG report notes that in the Netherlands more than 30,000 people died from COVID-19 on the basis of CBS's excess mortality data, and that this is significantly more than in similar countries;]] [[whereas the KPMG report also confirms that the difference in performance is largely due to the chosen Dutch policy, with the precautionary principle not being applied time and time again, and the cabinet has also had too little regard for the health effects of long covid;]] [[Whereas in recent weeks the policy chosen has led to a new wave of hundreds of thousands of infections and hundreds of deaths, and we are heading for code black;]] [[noting that this strategy has caused enormous physical, financial and mental damage to the economy, working people, people at risk, young people and many others;]] [[noting that the government did not use this strategy to contain the virus and thus failed to comply with the constitutional obligation to protect public health;]] [[rejects the corona strategy of the virus;]] [[calls on the government to break this strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1660]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u431	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost all infections occur in the inner room;]] [[calls on the government to look at ionisation systems in addition to good ventilation systems, giving priority to nursing homes, old people's homes and schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that schoolchildren have been suffering from the corona measures for almost two years;]] [[invites the Government to give final examination students at least a second chance at the final examination this school year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1661]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1662]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u432	Finally, a motion on polarisation, which is of great concern to me. I hope we can prevent it. It is, of course, a knife that cuts both sides of the government and the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas polarisation between groups in society is taking worrying forms;]] [[Whereas both the SCP and the Council of State have expressed concerns about polarisation;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to reduce polarisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Kuzu, Mr Agema, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1663]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u433	I have a question about the motion that calls for another rematch. We have had a great deal of discussion in the Education Committee, with this Minister, by the way, about the rematches in education. There's gonna be a letter from the cabinet. We agreed that we would have an extensive debate on this in committee in the new year. So I would ask Mr Van Haga to hold on to this motion for a moment, so that we can discuss this issue in detail in the Education Committee, because that is what it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u434	No, I'm not gonna do that. But you need to see this motion more as a support in the back. The current final candidates do not now have, as is said from several quarters, corona measures. They've had coronal dystopia for two years. It would be good to point out that we are treating these final candidates a little more generously and, in any case, give at least a second chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u435	I know quite well about the rules in education, because we have had extensive discussions on this in the Education Committee over the last few years. So I know those rules, and I know those discussions. That is precisely why I would like this motion to be held until the education debate. I think this deserves a debate. We need to talk about it with each other. We need to talk about this with the Minister of Education, whether it be this minister or another. Now it's mentioned in a corona debate. I do not think that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u436	I must say, Mr Van Haga: it is also good if there has been a debate about it, if there has been a debate about it. That is not the case now. I have to say, therefore, that I understand Mrs Westerveld's argument to hold the motion, quite frankly. But of course it is up to you whether you wish to file or hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u437	I understand. There have been several statements that it would not be so now. I understand there's gonna be another debate about it. I also heard the Minister's appeal. I'm gonna take a little time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u438	Look! Mr Van Haga is going to think about it, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u439	I am glad to hear that Mr Van Haga wants to think about it, because I want to make a compelling appeal. I just signed your motion to counter polarization. In addition, we as MPs give each other the opportunity to really hear each other's voice and to question and convince each other in that way. If you want this motion against polarisation to be put forward by you, then I think that debate should really be given a serious opportunity. So here's a cri de coeur to seriously give that yourself hands and feet and to put you on the right side against polarization.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u440	I appreciate Mrs Gündoğan's words, but this motion really has nothing to do with polarisation. That's not what I meant. But I received your cri de coeur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u441	Mr Van Haga said: I am thinking about it. Anything else you'd like to add, Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u442	That's about the final motion. I'm having a little trouble with the fact that you're calling not to polarize, while you're a big supporter of disinformation, while you're the first to sit on a terrace on the Nieuwmarkt to call on you not to stick to enforcement, saddled the police with extra activities and want to report it because you don't get your way here in the democratic parliament. So I also ask: what is your own role in preventing polarization in this whole? That's what I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u443	It is very important that you may disagree here and that you do not accuse each other of disinformation if there are just facts underneath. Let's just stick to the facts. It is true that the Minister is not going to say: it is a pandemic of the unvaccinated. But that also includes the fact that we treat each other properly. I think I totally agree with you. That really has nothing to do with a chocolate milk with whipped cream I drink at the Nieuwmarkt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u444	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u445	I think so. If we decide what legislation is, we find together that we want to maintain it and invite you knowingly and knowingly to disobey the law, then I find that very polarising. You have an example function when it comes to what you may or may not adhere to. The whole police force can then worry about that again, while sexual crimes remain on the shelf. So I do find that polarizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u446	Mr. Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u447	Yeah, finally. I think this is exactly the polarization we should stay away from. You may disagree with each other, and we are. That's okay, too, but accusing me of this kind of thing is out of order. That's too bad. And that is exactly why this motion has been tabled. I'll try to be decent and I hope the rest of you will. I hope the Minister will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u448	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. The directors have indicated that they need about 15 minutes to prepare themselves for giving the appreciations of the motions. Excuse me, there's still... I don't know what you're gonna do, but I'm gonna give you the floor, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u449	Thank you. I understand that there was an incident when I was not in the Chamber for a while, but I would finally like to contribute to the fact that the VWS Minister and I are very much in a position to bump into content, but that I have not experienced a minister who was so well introduced into all the dossiers in the last 15 years. I would also like to say that this can be discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u450	Look. Thank you, Mrs Agema. Then I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u451	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I will give the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport the floor for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u452	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the motion in part No. 1639 of the PVV. It calls for the recommendations of the RIVM study to be taken over. I feel like it, but I really want to study it a little better. That's yesterday's investigation. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Agema to hold this motion. Then I will respond to the content of the recommendations at the beginning of January. I really want to figure it out a little bit better before I say yes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u453	Mrs Agema nods, so she holds the motion in part no. 1639 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u454	Yes, I nod, but the urgency is, of course, very great when it comes to the ventilation guidelines for the catering industry, if we are to be able to keep them open or open again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u455	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u456	So don't let it be a long-distance story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u457	Absolutely not. In January, I will return to the recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u458	Thank you, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u459	The judgment on the motion in part No. I would like to leave 1640 to the Chamber. That's a SP motion on volunteers and the booster campaign. The motion in part No. 1642 I would advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 1643 I would advise against. It's nice, but we can't do it. On the motion in part No. 1644 I would like to say to Mrs Bikker: it is a national test day every day. We'll bring that to your attention every day. I would therefore advise against this motion. On the motion in part No. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. That is the motion that calls for a social support package to be explored. The motion in part No. I would advise against 1646 referring to what Mrs Westerveld said about it, because I very much agree with that. The motion in part No. 1647 I would advise against the same reason. The motion in part No. 1648 is a speech-expression. On the motion in part No. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. We do a lot of things, and this is very much in line with that. I would like to return to that in another letter. The motion in part No. I would advise against 1652, referring to the debate. The motion in part No. I would advise against 1653 because it is unnecessary. The motion in part No. 1654 I would advise against, because it is very doubtful whether these extra numbers of beds can be created. The question is whether it is a sensible way of achieving care capacity on that side. It is not so much about the places, but much more about the people. You're gonna need it anyway. In addition, this whole theme is at stake with the expert team, which we will be putting to work in the coming months to think about how to achieve a flexible scaling up without the need to be so firm. The motion in part No. 1655 is about heterologist vaccination. Many vaccinations, many booster vaccines, are of course put heterologist, because in your primary series you get a different vaccine than with your booster vaccine. We just can't make it a model of choice, because that's just not organizeable. So we're already vaccinating heterologist. It's not possible to do that any more than we already do, because that's slowing down. In order to avoid that ambiguity, I'm going to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u460	The motion in part No. 1655 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u461	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 1656. I would actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u462	Do you have a question, Mr. Paternotte? It is a motion by Mrs Den Haan, and it is not recommended. You have a question about that? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u463	The EEA is about now deciding on the admission of the second Janssenprik, so Janssen after Janssen. I speak quite a lot of people who do want to; that is indeed heterologist. Will the Minister, in response, see if that's possible? Because that can, of course, almost sometimes mean heterologist vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u464	But heterologically means that you get a different vaccine when boostering, for example Janssen after Pfizer or just Moderna after Pfizer. All combinations are possible. It has previously been found that heterologous vaccination is not a problem. That, and to make it as tight and easy as possible, is why we only use mRNA vaccines in boostering. De facto that means for example Astramensen and Janssenmensen heterologist, so we do a lot of heterologists. We can only really not afford to have a choice model. It's really boostering what the pot buys. Because otherwise it's slowing down and I don't want to, which is why I say heterologist we're already doing, and we're not gonna do anything more than that, because that's slowing down. And we have to bounce; boosters, boosters, boosters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u465	Then I have one more question. You say "boost what the pot buys," but if it's all right, there are still half a million Janssen vaccines on the shelf. Are they also used for booster shots?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u466	Possibly, or they'll be used for donation. At least we're boostering with mRNA right now. That's the fastest way. Those are big numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u467	And those 500,000 vaccines might still be used for the booster?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u468	Possibly, if it helps. But if it even slows down a little bit, I won't. With all the choices we make, it's actually very easy. You have to choose anything that helps to get more people pricked faster. The more complex the organization gets, the fewer people we can prick faster, and so I only choose less complex choices and not more complex choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u469	I have one more clarifying question: why could it slow down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u470	Because of the choice models. Then there are lock locks or people have to wait longer before their lock is up. It's real hoo-hoo, guys. It's really honing and everyone has to come and get that booster shot as soon as possible. So I'm gonna call people every day and every time I get a booster shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u471	Interesting as it is, I'm gonna stop this discussion right now. Let's continue with the Den Haan motion in part no. 1656.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u472	Yes. I very much agree with that. At least, I agree with a lot of things until I get to the very last sentence of the operative part. It contains the words 'before the end of this year'. The end of the year is in two weeks, and I just can't. So if I could turn that into "as soon as possible," I could leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u473	I'll take a look at Mrs. Den Haan to see if that's okay. She nods, I see. Then it would be nice if you tabled a change to the motion, Mrs Den Haan, because we are going to vote on the motions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u474	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 1659, by Mrs Van der Plas. Words matter, that's what it says. Of course, and that is why I choose them carefully, but apparently Mrs Van der Plas already finds that polarizing. That's why I don't think we can agree. That is why I would advise against this motion. The motion in part No. I would advise against 1660 of BET1 because several considerations are simply not correct. I would therefore advise against this motion. Then the Van Haga/Smolders motion in part No. 1661, on ionization of systems. I would also advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u475	Before you go any further, let's go see Mrs. Van der Plas. That's about the motion in part No. 1659, I think. And then Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u476	Yes, I don't understand the Minister's explanation. Sorry. I don't understand the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u477	Well, look. You say no more polarizing statements. That means I'm making polarizing statements about vaccination. I choose my words very carefully and if I have chosen wrong words, I will be the first to acknowledge that. But I can't remember words around vaccination that would be unnecessarily polarizing. I do know, however, that there are a lot of people, you too, apparently, who can take words as polarizing. But if that then becomes the reason not to say the things that you as Minister of VWS are deeply convinced to say, because you do not want to walk around reality, even if that reality is sometimes uncomfortable, I don't think I will give myself a gift by getting this assignment. Because you seem to find that statements are polarizing quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u478	Well, I'll take that as an assumption. I mentioned in Mr Paternotte's interruption two examples of what is polarizing: for example, it is a 'pandemic of the unvaccinated', or earlier in the year it is antisocial and decadent if you do not allow yourself to be vaccinated. Does the Minister not agree with me that this has some polarization, so to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u479	No, I don't agree with you. By the way, I have never used the word "associal." I heard you say that a number of times, even before, but I have not used that word in relation to people who have not been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u480	You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u481	I've made the other statements on purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u482	You don't agree on what's polarizing. Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u483	I understand that the motion can get judgment Chamber if I take out the word "more."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u484	Then it's unnecessary, of course. And you call it "a recovery plan," well, we're just working. So no, I'm just dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u485	I warned you that you didn't feel the same way. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Simons, probably on her motion on item No. 1660.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u486	I hear the Minister say that there are some considerations in the motion that are incorrect. There are three considerations in the motion. In any case, two of them refer to a KPMG report. That sounds right to me anyway. I am very curious to know what the Minister means, so that I may be able to amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u487	I don't think so. We have had the debate on the strategy on several occasions. What I hear coming back over and over again is the assumption that the cabinet has deliberately chosen a strategy in Mrs Simons' words, taking a lot of health damage and a lot of deaths as a result. That is actually the suggestion that Mrs Simons has consistently made in her contributions. You'll see that again in this motion. It begins with the first observation, where it says "checked out." That would be the policy strategy of the cabinet. No, that's "maximum check." I've explained that a lot. It then goes on in the second observation. It is not correct for the same reason as in the first observation. In the recitals related to the KPMG report, for example, it is said "whereas the policy chosen in recent weeks has once again led to a new wave of hundreds of thousands of infections and hundreds of deaths, and we are heading towards code black." That is where the false assumption is made about our policy, and that is linked to the death, as if it were all a kind of conscious choice of the cabinet. The whole suggestion underneath is so wrong that I would like to say to Mrs Simons: this is so far from reality; of course I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u488	I asked the Minister tonight about the strategy. His response to this has been unchanged since the beginning. Then I'll take the very first press conference of the outgoing Prime Minister as my starting point. On that basis, I shall base the observations that the Minister is now referring to. The other considerations and observations, as I say in the motion, are based, inter alia, on the KPMG report. In my contribution I also mentioned a broadcast of Nieuwsuur, which made a reconstruction. I've been talking about several people who've done an analysis. I am going to take the words out of your mouth, Mr President: we are not going to agree. But I would have liked to say it for a moment, because it is my belief that they are all factually correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u489	Thank you. Mrs van der Plas would say 'that's an assumption', but in this case you can read my thoughts well. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u490	The motion in part No. 1661 on ionisation systems, I recommend. Of course, we always involve all possible means in the policy. This motion is therefore superfluous in this respect. We're also looking at ionisation systems. Then there's the motion on reducing polarization. It's unnecessary, because that's what we always try to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u491	The motion in part No. 1663 is not recommended. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u492	I have a few things to say, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u493	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u494	I made a number of promises for the second term. First of all, to Mrs Van den Berg. You want to make an appointment for Mr. Van den Berg and I promised to tell you exactly what's going on. There are now 1.2 million appointments planned for the booster. Of these, 70,000 are planned at the beginning of January. An appointment advances to December as more locks are opened, can at this time only by telephone. The call center is often overloaded. The GGD is working on a solution to put these agreements forward and then the people will be informed by SMS. If you try to make an appointment these days and you don't get through and you think, "hey, that's crazy. I'm not due for another two or three weeks and I should be able to make an appointment soon anyway," you just log in a little later, because every day new locks are released and you can make an appointment for that. So if you can't get there soon, you know there's gonna be new opportunities tomorrow to get there faster. Then you just make your appointment a day later. We'd like to see a picture on Twitter of Mr. Van den Berg's booster shot. Of course, only if you go together, as a duo. Then the investigation into the air cleaners. The practical research is indeed not yet available. I explained in an earlier letter that it resulted in a very complicated investigation. Then we asked for a research proposal to RIVM and that was delivered. They've figured out what should happen. In order to get started, we have asked RIVM to do a literature study. RIVM's gonna start with that. We expect that study to be completed at the beginning of 2022. The practical tests will then also be started. Didn't anything happen at all? No, because there are already a number of practical tests, such as those much discussed air cleaners in Staphorst. Of course, we're going to double check that "wonder of Staphorst" is indeed a miracle. Those are investigations that are already running through ZonMw and SportInnovator. The results are collected in the literature research of RIVM. Mrs De Vries wondered whether this extra money could also be used to increase enforcement capacity. These funds can also be used by municipalities for additional enforcement capacity if they help to promote compliance with the CTB. Then the long term. At the end of January too long has been said. That's actually insanely fast. That's two weeks after Christmas and that's really insanely fast. Let us do everything we can to ensure that we have a good story about what we could do differently and better, at least for the second half of the winter. Mrs De Vries raised the question whether we are already preparing a booster campaign in order to be able to repeat, if necessary, an additional shot later in the year. We are in the process of preparing to the extent that it is too early, taken on its own, to decide exactly when it should take place. What is important, though, is that the current vaccines were developed on the basis of a variant of three variants ago. That could be a reason why they're working a little less well and have just become a little less effective. In particular, the mRNA vaccines are well adapted. With the producers Moderna and Pfizer, we agreed that if the current vaccines do not provide sufficient protection against a new variant of the virus, they should at least make a reasonable effort to get those vaccines adapted. All the vaccines we have contracted that follow should be the new vaccines. This would enable us to launch a new booster campaign. When it is to be started exactly, it is to be decided further, but I assume that there will be an adapted vaccine and that we will agree on this together in the European Union with all 27 Member States. I also assume that the agreement will be concluded in the near future. I know that the European Commission is currently talking to Pfizer for an additional purchase of 150 million vaccines for the second quarter. For the Netherlands, this amounts to 5.5 million doses. That would be an extra delivery. We are participating in this, if it is indeed about a new vaccine that has been adapted to the omikron variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u495	Thank you. I think you've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u496	I had asked for an inventory of the desirability of opening up the BIG register to pharmacists, at least of the possibility of pricking them. Could we have it in January?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u497	Yes, I am indeed going to inventory what is currently hindering to use pharmacists more, partly on the basis of the pilot and on the basis of the KNMP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u498	Then I would like to thank the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for its second term, which, as far as I am concerned, consists mainly of motions for resolutions. I would like to touch very briefly on Mrs Agema's point, which was taken from my heart: children are not a problem. Kids are a blessing. They may sometimes be difficult, but it is mainly a blessing and a joy to have children, to deal with them and to be able to accompany them in education. The generation under 12 years has not yet had the opportunity to be vaccinated. There is now room for the vulnerable and there will be room, if parents want it, for the children under the age of 12 who are not vulnerable to vaccination to be vaccinated on a voluntary basis. Because of this situation and the fact that the infections have occurred there, it is necessary to take a few precautions, because omikron, if it really goes around at that speed, can get an even greater spread through children. That's what we're dealing with. You are absolutely right that we should not see them as a problem. On the contrary, we need to take the right measures to ensure that we do not have widespread problems in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u500	That's not exactly what I meant to say. Dutch research by Mrs Bruijning shows, among other things, that two thirds of the children in our country have had corona. That investigation is very fresh, from yesterday or the day before yesterday. Kids get very little sick from the virus. I am referring above all to the relationship between children and grandparents and grandparents. Nor do I think it is wise for schools to be closed and grandparents and grandparents to pick up the children. But when it comes to grandpas and grandmothers themselves and people who want to protect themselves, a clover jacket evening or a trip from former roommates, where half of the people were infected, gives more risk than dealing with children. That's my concern. My concern is that dealing with children is being challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u501	You mention a number of risks, but we can mention even more situations where risks may arise with regard to the spread of the virus if people do not comply with rules. I think we should do everything we can, with all the measures and basic measures we take, to avoid risks where we see them. For a very sec, there is now a situation around children, which means that we really need to be more alert and take precautions. We don't know all about that yet. We will have to follow the further studies that the OMT will come up with very closely, including on, for example, the illness of omikron and how it can possibly avoid or break down immunity that has been built up, as stated in the OMT opinion. I think that may have happened in January when it comes to the protection there is. That is why it is important that we do everything possible. Boostering also plays a very important role in this. Once again, it is also, unfortunately, important to take this measure. Having said that, I come to the motion in part No. 1641. That's a speech-out. Let us look again at the situation we are dealing with: it is not the fact that we have not taken sufficient measures in the school. Nor is it a question of threatening children's health. What is at issue here is that risks may arise because of the enormous speed at which the new variant may spread the virus, which means that we are forced to take precautions. I am not saying that on the basis of this motion, but more generally. The Chamber itself is in charge of this motion. We do not have to judge that. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 1650 by Mr Stoffer I advise. First of all, the decision we have taken is no more and no less than a one-week extension of the Christmas holiday. That's the decision. The second is that all the measures we have always taken in support of schools are, of course, entirely at their disposal, even during Christmas holidays, if they wish to make use of them. I have already indicated that the subsidy scheme does not stop for two or three weeks either. We can continue to appeal to them. It even continues until the end of January. I heard Mr Stoffer mention at the end of his speech the power of rest. I liked that. That is a book by Miriam van der Vegt, whom I know as a good writer. We give it to the schools that they can take a break. As far as we're concerned, we're not gonna ask them to continue working on Christmas holidays. We also give them the rest they need. For the rest, all support remains in full force and applies to schools. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 1650. The motion in part No. 1651 I also advise against. I am sorry that it has been submitted. Mr Paternotte, in particular, has drawn a great deal of attention to this. In his direction, I have indicated that what we do also in the field of regular education is fully valid here. Very specifically, we also do this for special education. If there are vulnerable students there must be room for them to go to school, as in the lockdowns we have had it has been applicable. It's up to the school to determine which students are vulnerable. Maybe that's all the students, maybe it's a class. That's really up to the professionals. The measure therefore applies to all children, for the reasons we have indicated. It is not the case that schools are closed to vulnerable children. Again, they are also in special education. So there is room for them as well. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u502	Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u503	Maybe one more supplement. Suppose this motion is adopted on Thursday, then parents and schools suddenly think that everything is different again. They can work with this. We have had discussions, including with the representatives of education. They could get out of their way with what was decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u504	It's a very clear question. Suppose there is a special education school in Zwolle, the minister comes from there, and I happen to know that there is such a school there that says: given the situation we let all classes come, because this is something specific. Could that be the scope of what the Minister is now saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u505	In the lockdown, we've had almost the same situations. But it's up to the school to decide what they think is vulnerable. We don't have to decide that from above. That's where the professionals are. They can. This also applies in regular education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u506	Then it is clear, because that is actually the implementation of the motion. There is no such ban. So as far as I'm concerned, I'm withdrawing the motion. I trust that the co-signators will be able to agree with that. Thank you for the Minister's reply. I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u507	Since the motion-stoffer c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u508	Then there is Mrs van der Plas' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u509	The motion in part No. 1657.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u510	I'd advise against it. I have just indicated that we have decided on a one-week Christmas holiday. That's it. Of course, we are following the situation further and there will be new OMT opinions, but that is the decision that has been taken. No more and no less. Also the motion in part No. 1658 I advise, because this is already happening. We have representatives of students who were present at all the meetings that have been held. Throughout the pandemic this already happens, just sitting fully at the table and talking along and deciding along. I have already said once myself that I was very impressed by the way they did it and that they were sometimes adults as examples. We will. In addition, we also have individual contacts with students. I spoke extensively with a class last week. In all kinds of ways we try to get young people to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u511	Thank you. The motion in part No. 1658 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u512	So I dissuade this motion because it's already happening. Then I do not think it is necessary to endorse it again with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u513	Before you continue, Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB. On the motion in part No. 1658 I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u514	That's right. I have a supplementary question. I understand that this is already happening in a number of areas. But does it also happen with covid policy, for example when it comes to school closures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u515	In all the administrative consultations that I have had, there have been a lot of them, but also in the official consultations with the education sector, the representatives of the pupils are members. It's impressive what these young people are making contributions to, how they think along and how they understand that sometimes difficult choices have to be made. That's just the policy. We do not intend to stop doing so on 1 January and not to do so in 2022. We will, of course, continue to do so. In fact, they're also trying to broaden themselves further and further. In the meantime, we also have a student representation from special education, the vso. This week, as I myself experienced during a consultation on the exams which also had to do with covid, he has just made a contribution and has done so in a very penetrating way. So they just have the space. We are very happy about this and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u516	Does that mean anything to your motion, Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u517	I would like to discuss this with this minister or perhaps with the next minister once in a while, because I would like to know what it will look like and what will then be introduced. But if the policy is standing, there is little point in tabling a motion on it. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u518	Just as formally, you withdraw the motion in part no. 1658 in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u519	I'll move her in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u520	Since the Van der Plas/Van Haga motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u521	That is why it is a pity that no question has been asked about it. Now suddenly there's such a motion. There's a lot more to be said about this. I have now also said a few words about it, because suddenly it seems that we are not doing this. Again, it's really standing policy. Mr Van Haga has tabled another motion on the final examinations, of which I have lost the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u522	That's the motion in part No. 1662.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u523	The motion in part No. 1662. Actually, Mrs Westerveld has already answered my question. We're talking about this. That's a very intensive conversation, by the way, the whole covid period. If the Cabinet supports me on Friday, I will send a letter to the Chamber, together with a great deal of research that has also been done at the request of the Chamber, including to the state exams. I have been told that the agreement was reached at the procedural meeting that a debate on this matter will be held at the beginning of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u524	Let me take a look at Mr Van Haga. The motion in part No. 1662.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u525	This is, of course, about a leaked piece that contained all sorts of things. That piece should have been discussed first. Hence the signal. But the Minister is absolutely right: Mrs Westerveld has made an excellent speech on this. Of course, it has to be discussed first. I've listened to that and I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u526	That's very neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u527	When it comes to that leaked piece: in Question Time, you may have a look back at Debate Missed, I indicated exactly where that piece was rambling on all sides, including with regard to everything that was discussed here in the Chamber. That has already been changed here in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I've had the motions that belonged to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u528	Yeah, that's right. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-9.u529	I thank the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and I thank the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education. I don't know if we're gonna find each other in these roles next week, but we're gonna see that, so thank you for that. I agree with the words addressed to you. Mrs De Vries started with that and I fully agree with that. I also liked the fact that a lot of Members of Parliament joined and said: let us please have the debate on the content. That may be sharp, that may be exciting, and that may be fiery, but not on the person. I thought there was such a nice debate. Thank you very much. We're going to vote tomorrow on the motions that have been tabled. I thank the Members of Parliament and thank the people who are still watching.
