ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the Act on minimum CO prices for electricity generation, Section 35216. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Finance, also known as the Secretary of State for Taxation and Tax Administration. If you have such a beautiful title, we have to pronounce it all, too, I think. We have ten speakers from the Chamber. Some people have requested a spicy speaking time of 15 minutes. So we're just a little bit sweet. There are no less than two maiden speeches in this debate. So it's a festive debate. The colleague of the CDA and the colleague of the VVD will speak here for the first time. So we're also going to suspend for flowers and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u2	The first speaker has been here before. That is Mr Van Raan of the Group of the Party of Animals. He has announced that he will speak to us for ten minutes. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish those who are going to make a maiden speech good luck, of course. Unfortunately, I can't compliment them yet, but I'm sure they will! Mr. Chairman. Even though it may not seem that way, today we are actually talking again about broad prosperity, the broad concept of prosperity. After all, it is about trading off, not only in the here and now, but also the trade-off between what we are about to do here in relation to the importance of future generations, later. When this cabinet started four years ago, a national minimum CO price for electricity generation would be established as a sustainability incentive. This is actually against the increasing cumulative CO emissions from the Monitor Broad Prosperity. That might be the most important meter from that monitor. The EU's bottom prices against which CO could be used could not prevent the share of greenhouse gases that would be added to the atmosphere from increasing further. Thus, the greenest cabinet would ever take matters into its own hands, something we naturally welcome. For, according to the Cabinet, a minimum price, even if it were lower than the expected EU ETS price, would provide an incentive for sustainability, because of the certainty that the market offers about the price of CO emissions, regardless of developments in the EU. So the EU is doing something, and the Netherlands would also do something. But what is going on now, four years later, is appalling, because the new floor prices of the cabinet are even lower than what everyone actually thought was unacceptable. That raises the question: does this outgoing Secretary of State, with the very long title, who just read to the chairman, really believe in it? Does he really believe that these minimum prices have the potential to be an incentive for sustainability? Does he really dare to say with dry eyes that by introducing this CO price he is playing a leading role in Europe? Does he dare to say that other EU Member States, our neighbours, are being encouraged to pursue a more ambitious energy and climate policy? It introduces a minimum price designed to ensure that no levy is imposed at all for the time being. I would like to call on the other countries not to take an example from the Netherlands in this respect. Let me put it another way: how much is this tax going to yield? How much CO is this tax going to avoid? Can a test be carried out on the basis of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act? That's gotta happen these days. Can the impact of cumulative emissions in particular on broad prosperity also be assessed? Mr. Chairman. The climate crisis must be dealt with as such. Of course, the promotion of CO emissions is an excellent idea, but that price must be something. This government had the mouths of green recovery after the corona crisis. For example, there was talk of fiscal greening. In practice, however, it is mainly fine words and little action, such as the CO levy, which is somewhat disappointing. And if that were the only act that wasn't right, it might not be so bad, but I'm gonna take you in the list. The flight tax is so low you can barely see it with the naked eye. The tax on cargo aircraft has been completely abolished. The cabinet does not move forward with the imposition of a tax on kerosene or with the introduction of a meat tax. However, VAT on fruit and vegetables went up, just like VAT on train tickets, the sustainable alternative to flying. Mr. Chairman. Here we see the trend that unhealthy and polluting still wins from healthy and sustainable. The CO levy for industry is far too low and has little effect in the coming years. The minimum CO price for electricity generation, which we are talking about today, is not in line with the principle that we should do as much as possible as soon as possible. That is literally what the Paris Agreement states and what we have committed ourselves to. Because if the world continues to emit at the current rate, in 2025, the chance to stay below 1.5 degrees of warming is already lost. The scenario that the Earth is already 1.5 degrees hotter by 2030 has even been described as realistic. Our CO emissions must therefore be reduced radically. In addition, we know thanks to the Monitor Brede Welvaart, that the Netherlands is a country with relatively high emissions per capita and with a lot of historical emissions. You could say that thanks to those historic emissions we have come to where we are now. That creates a special obligation to do something about it now. The Netherlands should therefore be at the forefront internationally. It's gonna take a lot of work. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, it requires, among other things, a uniform CO levy, valid for all sectors and all emissions. No more exceptions. No free allowances. No backdoors so that the big polluters can just keep going. A price path that fits the goal of reducing emissions as quickly as possible. But for the CO-minimum price for electricity generation, which we are talking about today, none of that is true. The minimum is far below the minimum that we already had and that we all considered too minimal. The cabinet sets the bar even lower than the market, with bottom prices that you don't even see on the market anymore. And with that, the cabinet hopes to inspire other Member States. Not thanks to but despite the cabinet, the CO price has risen sharply, and we have to hold on to that. But the government's dumping prices are not going to contribute to that. The polluter must pay and, as soon as possible, reduce the costs as much as possible by means of a price incentive. That is why I have just tabled an amendment to the bill we are discussing today. It'll be handed out in a minute. That amendment significantly increases the price of CO for the energy sector. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more point about this other CO levy, the CO levy for industry, which is also far too low in relation to subsidies for the underground storage of CO. Because, on the one hand, in autumn last year, the cabinet introduced a CO levy on industrial emissions, so on the one hand, a levy and, on the other hand, a subsidy to stop these emissions underground. The cabinet has given 2.1 billion in grants to Shell and ExxonMobile. Apparently, therefore, it is cheaper to absorb CO than to reduce CO emissions. So the government continues to reward the polluter and, if so, does not focus on the necessary energy transition, the burning of fossil fuel. We need to reduce emissions and not stop emissions to the ground afterwards. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We have no choice but to go to a situation where there is no more CO to catch or put under the ground. That's why the Party for Animals calls on the Demissionary Secretary of State to significantly increase the CO price. I'd like a response. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u4	Very well, thank you. Then there is the welcome moment of a maiden speech by Mr Bontenbal. That's what we're gonna sit down for. We're gonna spike the ears and we're gonna listen to them extensively. I call Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. As a new MP who temporarily fills in the seat of Pieter Ommzigt, it is a rather inappropriate time to make a maiden speech. What is happening in our party is painful for all those directly involved, but also for all those thousands of members, volunteers, council members, aldermen, statesmen, delegates and voters. My answer is this maiden speech, in which I try to express what I consider to be the heart of Christian democracy, the ideals for which I have become a member of the CDA and from which I want to work in this house. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few months, I've met three very different people. It's Ted, Teus and Karen. Ted and his brothers are the owners of Duijvestijn Tomatoes in Pijnacker. This family business produces 17 million kilos of tomatoes per year on about 25 hectares of greenhouse horticulture. For years, this company has been leading innovation and sustainability. Ted tells passionately about geothermal energy, solar panels, biological crop protection and the closure of cycles. His company does it all and he has a lot more plans. Teus is a social guy. He is the face of the Zeeland energy cooperative Zeeuwind. With him I visit a solar park at a former landfill near Koudekerke. Together with the local village cooperative, this solar park has been developed before and by citizens. Teus tells us what barriers he encounters in the development of such a cooperative solar park and that it is important that renewable energy projects have local ownership. That's the best thing he's got. Karen is from a chemical technologist, loves technology and is the boss of the BP refinery in Rotterdam. She's gonna show me around about the refinery and tell me how it works. This refinery produces 400,000 barrels of oil a day. She too fully understands the need to make energy supply sustainable. She's been thinking about that a long time. Karen is designing projects to work with hydrogen in the refinery to reduce emissions in the short term. But she's also thinking a lot further. About a fully climate-neutral refinery in 2050. Ted, Teus and Karen are very different people, but they have this in common: they are passionate professionals, who make the world a lot more beautiful every day. They're not facing each other. They're side by side. Mr. Chairman. Climate change is one of the most important issues of our time. This requires a common approach beyond the contradictions. This calls for a side-by-side approach, in which we stand shoulder to shoulder to face this challenge. But those who look at climate policy debates often see something different than this commonality. We're seeing polarization, black and white and good thinking. We can see that there's a search for culprits and scapegoats. The blame of the climate problem is placed on one party, as well as on the responsibility to solve the problem. This polarisation in our society weakens our ability to face together the major societal challenges. The polarization in our society is a symptom of the shift in thinking about the relationship between individual and society. Those who think about major social issues, such as climate change, will also have to think about the cultural climate in which these issues have arisen. Anyone looking for solutions to the climate problem cannot ignore the fact that these solutions are not politically neutral. Ideology matters, including in the debate on climate policy. Forgive me, therefore, for giving more thought to the philosophy of Christian democracy. I stand here not only with concrete ideas for a better climate policy, but also with a backpack full of ideals. The core of the philosophy of Christian democracy was strikingly expressed last Saturday evening by the Danish football team coach, when he said emotionally: life revolves around meaningful relationships. The core of Christian democracy is that we can only be fully human in a community and in meaningful relationships with our neighbors. We depend on each other or, as Ruud Lubbers put it beautifully, people have message to each other. It is precisely this commonality that has been eroded over the past few decades. The British rabbi Jonathan Sacks wrote an impressive book on morality, in which he writes about what he calls a cultural climate change. That's the shift from the "we" to the "I." Social freedom, he argues, can only be maintained by a public morality. Involvement in the well-being of others, active commitment to justice, compassion and willingness to be engaged not only in what is good for me, but in what is good for all of us. Social freedom is about us, not me. It's about "we," not "me." The report She at the side of our scientific institute outlines an alternative, a Christian-democratic perspective on society. I quote: "In Christian democracy, the world is not a fighting cage where the law of the strongest applies, but the world is given to live together and work together. This means working together in practice, caring, responsibility for each other." In the report, the metaphor of the world is taken over as a common home of Pope Francis. The world as a common home implies that its residents behave like a good steward. Rent mastery is one of the core values of Christian democracy. This which means old-fashioned understanding: to communicate creatively what is of value. It's not passive, it's an active concept. It is not just about preserving what is good, but also about making it fruitful, improving and innovating. Tradition is the passing of the fire and not the worship of the ashes. The metaphor of the common house also means that we know our roots, that somewhere is our home and that we know ourselves safely there. We're part of this house together. That implies that no one is excluded and that there is room for everyone. Individuals carry the community and vice versa. Finally, a common house calls for common rules to keep the house habitable. In the opinion of Pope Francis, the ecological crisis is also a social crisis. That is the core of the earth's metaphor as a common home: we only become truly human in relation to others, but that also applies to our relationship to creation, our environment. The cry of the earth and the cry of the poor strengthen each other. An ecologically responsible approach must therefore also be a socially responsible approach, he writes. Pope Francis has repeatedly warned of what he calls the globalisation of indifference. We are not only increasingly instrumentally looking at our fellow man, but also at the creation and other inhabitants on our planet. We will therefore have to look for a new relationship with our fellow man and our environment, a relationship of care and respect, and not of exhaustion and exploitation. The long-term and general interest must define the agenda of the politician. Mr. Chairman. This "globalisation of indifference" may sound a bit gloomy, but at the heart of Christian democracy is hope. In every situation, even in the most gloomy situations, germs of hope are hidden. "There is a crack in everything that's how the light gets in," Leonard Cohen sang. To quote Pope Francis once more: "Difficulty that seems overwhelming are actually opportunities for growth and no excuses for dull resignation." The core of Christian democracy is precisely that caring for one another and for our environment are already there and make up the essence of being human. It's about blossoming them and making them fruitful. People are going to work to make the world more beautiful. That's what Ted, Teus and Karen show. Mr. Chairman. With these Christian Democrat glasses I look at my wallet, climate and energy. Climate change is primarily a question of shared responsibility between people. Together we are the stewards of our common home, the earth. When I translate the philosophy of Christian democracy into energy and climate policy, I come to the following approach: 1. Polarization is not the way to success. Only thinking from shared responsibility leads us forward. Our starting point isn't the question of who's guilty. Our starting point is: what can anyone contribute to the solution? 2. Climate policy can only be successful if it is also social. Here, too, the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest loads. Everyone is in and should be able to participate. 3. "Rent mastery" means not only preserving what is of value, but also passing on creatively. This means that we are making the enormous potential for creativity and innovation that exists in society fruitful. 4. We also need to link solving the climate problem with strengthening the earning capacity of the economy. Companies are not a problem, but part of the solution. This means, for example, that we are working on a green industrial policy. 5. Only a European climate approach can be successful. Only if we work closely together as Member States, create a level playing field and become a power block vis-à-vis the rest of the world can we take major steps with Europe in climate policy. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to our appreciation of the bill now before us. We are now talking about a bill that has been on the shelf for two years. In these two years, a lot has changed. Europe has now increased its climate target to 55% in 2030 and will come up with a package of measures to anchor this objective in EU and Member State policies in a few weeks' time. The markets responded to this, including a sharp increase in the price of allowances. For several weeks the price of allowances has been above €50 per tonne of CO. The bill regulates a minimum CO price for electricity generation. This floor in the CO price for electricity production ensures that electricity producers know where they stand in the coming years. The course is clear: we are moving towards a clean energy supply in the Netherlands. We are therefore inclined to support the bill. It is an agreement from the Climate Agreement and it is good that we keep these agreements together. The CDA Group has three questions to the Secretary of State: 1. We are now three years further and in the meantime the panels have shifted. Not only has the EU's climate objective been strengthened and the CO price significantly increased, but a ceiling has also been set on the production of coal. To what extent is this bill with this price path effective? 2. The CDA considers a European focus in climate policy to be important. We need to look not only at CO emissions within the borders of the Netherlands stamp, but more broadly at the impact of our policies on European and global emissions. To what extent are there any discussions on the introduction of a floor price with other Member States? 3. If other Member States do not move along and if the bottom price has a real effect at some point, this could mean that gas plants in the Netherlands are going to run less and we are going to import more electricity from abroad. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Is that desirable? Mr President, I will conclude. Climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing us in the coming decades. Along with many others, I'm worried about that. It motivated me not to stand on the sidelines, but to work on my own, first in business and now in the Lower House. What is needed more than ever is a policy of responsibility. I would like to contribute to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u6	Very nice, beautiful. Compliments. This is a maiden speech as we like to hear them: behave and also a piece of ideology. We don't have enough in this House of Representatives. We don't have any ideologies at all anymore, sometimes it seems. In this sense, you yourself have led to a small climate change. As far as I'm concerned, that's fine. I invite you, yes, you've already sat down, but that's not how we got married to stand here for a while. I am the first to congratulate you on this. That's a great honor. Looks like there are others who want to do the same. Again, my compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u7	So much for our standing reception. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u8	After this wonderful appeal to the side, a Member of Parliament who has been called a "confrontation politics" comes along. By a CDA guy, unfortunately. But I've also done a lot side by side with CDAs. When I hear the story as Mr Bontenbal puts it, about talking about ideology, taking responsibility and solving things in solidarity, I feel very good about it. I haven't switched yet. We'll keep you sharp. You can be very proud of this maiden speech, I say from the bottom of my heart. Then I'm gonna fly into this bill a little bit from polarization, because why are we even standing here? Why do we have this law? Why do we introduce a law whose starting point seems to be that it doesn't have to have any effect? The present legislative proposal states that for electricity generation through fuel or land use, not through wind or sun, but fossil energy, will never be paid less than the ETS price. However, the amounts of the ETS, the European emission prices, are now so high that the soil that is laid down is not even visible. So why are we standing here? Mr. Chairman. We have a climate policy in our country that is a gathering of laws without expressive force and agreements that have been lobbied by the greatest polluters. The fact that even the amounts in this law come from the same sector shows that. That's not climate policy, that's good weather play. That's not solving anything, that's just doing nothing. What is so risky is that we are now adopting this bill. This bill was in the government agreement of a government that has been ruled out; a new one is being negotiated. This legislative proposal will then be the argument for not taking any other measures, because we need to evaluate this legislative proposal first. That's what I wanted to tell the Secretary of State. Isn't this a little too little, but also a little late? As an argument to keep the levy so low, the cabinet mentions the security of supply. But the goal is precisely through that tax to regulate that transition from fossil energy to clean energy. We want to make that cover. If you make sure that the old energy is more expensive than the new, clean energy, you get that change too. But there is now a law for a minimum CO2 price, the objective of which is not CO2 reduction. I don't really understand it and I can't knit it together. That raises the question: why this law? Is it perhaps there to protect households from high prices? Is it to prevent energy poverty? No, there are many other ways to regulate that and the prevention of energy poverty is not regulated in this bill. Well, now there's gonna be a piece of ideology, Mr. Chairman. You're used to it from me. As far as the SP is concerned, this neoliberal market climate policy is not going to work. We need direction, direction of the government, not of the market. We should not give the key to clean energy to Shell, but we should use it ourselves. Deadweight! When it comes to security of supply, we should opt for, for example, public energy supply. Raise it together and organize it with each other, public. Mr Bontenbal spoke about collective energy supplies. We are very much in favour of this, and we are still seeing it too little, while generating self-sufficient energy is one of the wishes of our climate policy. Mr. Chairman. I will be brief, because we have a long day to go and there are still many speakers. My group would very much like to see the polluters pay. We tried this last time when the CO-tax law was being discussed, with two amendments. Unfortunately, we only received support from the Party for Animals and GroenLinks. We do not think this is a solution. If you really want to solve the climate crisis, we need a government that dares to choose between the big polluters on the one hand, and the interests of us, the inhabitants, the future, the children on the other. And in the end, that's gonna be good for the economy, too. After all, Shell has no choice but to live in a world in which there is no longer any life left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to my colleague Bontenbal for a wonderful maiden speech about meaningful relationships, side by side, and stewardship that is actively passing on what is of value. Thank you, and congratulations. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes we deal with laws where you think: how does it exist, how did they come up with it and what is its added value? And today we are dealing with such a law, namely the Law on minimum CO-price electricity generation. I would like to receive a reply from the Secretary of State to the above three questions. What I can do is tell my story behind this law. For this, we must return to the coalition negotiations of the summer of 2017. The ETS price for COlag at €7 per tonne. For years, that price hardly came from its place. There were far too many allowances and too many were given away for free. In short, the cornerstone of European climate policy did not work at all. The PBL estimated that the price would increase slightly until 2030, i.e. to €20 per tonne. This underlines once again that models, planning agencies and policy makers can only think and predict linearly, and difficult to get hold of at tipping points. The EU COlag reduction target at 40% in 2030 compared to 1990. That wasn't very ambitious either. Something had to happen. And so it was. According to the English example, in the coalition agreement, we agreed on a minimum CO price for electricity generation, in order to gradually give this greenhouse gas a real price, and to smoke out the coal plants and passers-by. We would start with €18 in 2020, rising to €43 in 2030, significantly higher than the PBL projections at the time. In order to prevent the coal-fired power stations from continuing with biomass-based subsidies, we agreed not to issue any new grant decisions for fire. At the same time, the coalition at the time agreed that we were going to use 49% CO2 reduction at national level in 2030, while in Europe fighting for 55% reduction. The latter succeeded, because last autumn the EU took over this commitment. Mr. Chairman. From the 2017 coalition agreement to the 2019 Climate Agreement. The climate agreement meant a deterioration and therefore a fundamental change in the instrument's minimum price. The price path went down significantly, from well above the ETS price to well below that price, for reasons of security of supply. This was also an opportunity to push coal plants out of the energy mix before 2030 with the minimum price as an instrument. My question: how valid was and is the argument security of supply actually, both in 2019 and now below the current price path? Mr. Chairman. Moving on to the actuality of the present. After looking at the ETS price for CO for years was the same as looking at growing grass, the CO price in Europe last year as a rocket exploded into the air, up to over €50 per tonne of CO. Mr Bontenbal mentioned it. While the PBL estimates at the beginning of this year that the CO price in 2030, in nine years' time, would not be that high, namely €46. The price forecast for 2030 was already history a month and a half ago. That's how fast it can be. Although there is also a speculation component in the current price, the energy expert organisations are beginning to increase their CO-price estimates upwards. Take Bloomberg. They now assume €108 per tonne in 2030. With a CO price of around €100, the energy transition and CO reduction are going really fast. Imagine: fossil energy is then priced out of the market, many sustainable options are then profitable and can be without subsidies. Not only wind, but also sun, CCS, you name it. Mr. Chairman. Of course, all this raises questions about the added value of this bill, with a price path starting at €12.30 and ending at less than €32 in 2030. Okay, I see the benefit of investment security for the energy companies. With this bill they have the certainty that the price will never fall below the proposed value. Their financial burden will therefore be reduced, as the guaranteed minimum price will make it cheaper to raise capital. But is this advantage still big enough to justify this bill? Therefore, once again, my question to the Secretary of State: what, in his view, is the added value of the proposed minimum price? How does it intend to implement or enforce the minimum price agreements under the Climate Agreement? To be precise, let me quote what it says: TenneT investigates security of supply risks every year for the next six years on the basis of objective indicators. This will take into account new developments in the ETS price. Two further rules: upward adjustments of the price path are announced at least five years in advance, with the objective indicators referred to above, TenneT, showing that the security of supply remains guaranteed. My question is: what is the Secretary of State's ambition when it comes to the timetable? After all, the minimum price currently proposed is likely to have relatively little added value in practice. Mr. Chairman. Because there are serious questions to ask about both the added value of the law and the chosen price path, and in view of the rapid developments in European climate policy, I have tabled an amendment to bring forward the evaluation: not within five years, but within three years, so that there is an evaluation of this law by the end of 2022/beginning of 2023. This coincides with the envisaged introduction of a border levy and with the agreement of the Climate Agreement to reflect on the minimum level path after 2030. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another aspect of the European CO prize. This can increase considerably in Europe. A large part of the world is not part of this. Without additional measures, of course, this will create disadvantages for European industries. These disadvantages have so far been overcome by the free allocation of allowances, which is not exactly a good solution. In addition: within Europe, relatively detrimental to Dutch industry, because it has been relatively efficient for a long time. In short, it is high time to better regulate this and to protect the largest single market in the world from false climate competition. In other words: go through with the CO2 limit tax. My questions. What is the Secretary of State's commitment? Does he fight for rapid implementation, 2023, but is he right that it will end with the free distribution of allowances for billions of euros? The time of grandfathering seems to be over. Mr. Chairman. I admit that this was a reflection with many backgrounds and figures. As far as I'm concerned, it's relevant to legal history. But of course it is much more than CO prices. Only a cynic knows the price of everything, but of nothing the value. This bill is about something that goes way beyond CO prices and so on. This is about our concern and responsibility for the earth, which we have on loan from our children. The price mechanism can play an essential role in the transition that our economy and energy supply have to make. On that basis, this agreement on a minimum price was reached in 2017. CO was just way too cheap at the time. Let us, above all, keep that original idea behind an effective minimum price.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u11	Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u13	Perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you to Mr Grinwis. I'm always happy to listen to him. He's said some sensible things. But I always notice one thing with the Christian Union, and also with the CDA, which is always said that if we were to pass it on now, the world would be more beautiful than we found it. Looking at the broad prosperity, that is absolutely not the case. Does Mr Grinwis agree with the Animal Party that at the moment we are simply not passing on the world as well and that there is a huge obligation on us, especially if we read the Monitor Brede Prosperity correctly? I wonder what Mr Grinwis has to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u15	Let it be clear that the Christian Union feels the task of passing the world on to the next generation at least as well and preferably better. That's really something other than saying that we're doing that right now. In fact, in 2017 it was precisely that lack of sense of urgency with an ETS price that did not come from its place, which at €5, €6, €7, €8 led to a bit of an existence. There was no incentive or incentive to invest as a business, as an energy sector in sustainable alternatives to fossil energy production. That is precisely why we decided to set a minimum price in the coalition agreement at the time, following the English example, where it worked well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you for that answer. That doesn't quite answer the question. The question was more: the frame that is sketched, the picture that is sketched is that we are going to pass on the world more beautifully. But also four years ago and also ten years ago it stood better when you look at the main indicators for the Monitor Brede Prosperity. So I understand that the intention was to do that, but as it stands now, that has completely failed. Does Mr Grinwis recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u17	On the contrary. I outlined in my contribution that another part of the coalition agreements at the time was to focus in Europe on increasing the CO reduction from 40% in 2030 to 55%. Look at what's happening: it's happening right now. Ejectingly, the ETS price goes up from then €7 to €7.50 in October 2017 to now around €51 to €52. In short, at the moment you see incentives to get started in the market. Is that enough? No. Should there be more? Yes. My contribution is intended to go one step further each time, but in the knowledge that we must do this together, in order to say it in Mr Bontenbal's words: side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u18	I think that Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union has given a very honest insight into how the bill was drafted and what the involvement of the Christian Union as a government party has been. Now there's this bill. Too late, as Mr Grinwis says, and in fact without a CO reduction target, what we are all talking about. Is the Christian Union going to vote for or against this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u19	First of all... I've only been in the room a few months. I was surprised that this bill was still there, because it was said from my mind already in September 2019 registered for plenary consideration. I have no idea what has happened in the Chamber in recent years, but at least this bill has not been dealt with. That's one. Two: we have concluded a climate agreement with each other. In this sense, the Christian Union has also signed up to it. From that perspective, I still feel commitment to this proposal. At the same time, I have also honestly indicated that I really had to look at the added value of this proposal. I really only found one. That is that the minimum price, with the certainty that the price does not fall below it, gives energy companies the security to invest. Money providers then offer interest benefits because they know at the front that the minimum price will never be lower than x.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u20	Of course, you could solve that in a very different way, I would like to say. Mr Grinwis actually says here: "We agreed that in 2017 on a sense of urgency. Then there was a climate agreement. That was a big step backwards, but yes, I just signed my signature, so we're going to pass a bullshit law." Actually, I think that's a little weird. Anyway, I hear he's gonna vote for it. That's what you got in the bag anyway, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u21	That wasn't a question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u22	Well, I'm allowed to respond briefly, aren't I? Mr Leijten certainly has a point, but Mr Leijten sees that I take my co-legislative role seriously. I have tabled an amendment to at least speed up that evaluation, of course with the aim of either achieving more effective legislation or perhaps drawing different conclusions. But that is at least my contribution to the legislative process: an amendment to speed up the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u23	The question I have is next. I understand that there is a climate agreement and that Mr Grinwis wants to respect the agreements made in it. There were also a lot of fossil companies. They have ensured that the current price path is in the law as it stands, and that it is therefore not effective now. There is also another agreement in the Climate Agreement, namely that it should lead to 49% CO reduction. The planning agencies stated last autumn that only about half of what is actually needed will be achieved. So what deal is more important: that we are going to save the climate and achieve that goal, or that we are going to come at a very low price that the fossil lobby is satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u24	First of all, the Christian Union stands for the measures we have agreed in the Climate Agreement. Secondly, yes, 49% was the target, and the target range of the Climate Agreement is indeed only 43% as it now stands. If you're looking at that target, you're gonna have to step in. The Christian Union has an election programme full of plans to achieve that goal. In fact, we do this without leaking effects abroad for the industry and we do so with less CCS than the PvdA. But that's a tease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u25	Plagues may be allowed, but let us now amend this bill and ensure that there is more CO reduction in the electricity sector. We can take care of that here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u26	Again, another agreement from the 2017 government agreement was already: in Europe, fighting for more effective European climate policy, in the knowledge that CO and climate do not adhere to borders. And just let that happen. European climate policy has higher objectives than Dutch climate policy. This will be reflected in concrete proposals in the coming weeks. We need to get to work on that. Whatever cabinet sits here and whatever chamber sits here, we have to get to work on it. In my view, therefore, Mr Thijssen and I agree in the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u27	Very nice. It's always nice to lock up like this. Then we will listen to Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I signed up for six minutes; I'll see how far I get out of my head. In any case, congratulations to Mr Bontenbal. In my opinion, it might be a good idea to discuss the relationship between community and individual once again. When I was listening to him, I immediately thought of a wonderful essay by Amos Oz, who once made the comparison between hard community thinking and hard individualistic thinking, while the compromise is to see society as peninsulas connected to one large island, so that the individual is connected to the community again. I've always thought that was a very beautiful metaphor. I think it also fits with the CDA's vision of society. I am also curious about Mr Idsinga's maiden speech, which will be just as beautiful. Mr. Chairman. We are indeed finally talking about the proposal for a minimum price for CO in the electricity sector. I think that was already mentioned in plenary in January a year and a half ago, and we are only now discussing it. I don't think that's up to the Secretary of State. We also need to look at ourselves as a Chamber: why did we not have this law before, even in corona times? The context has changed, though. Many questions have been asked about this and I will also ask questions about it. But let me start with the system of the minimum price, which is important, also for this bill. I believe that the ETS system from Europe is theoretically a very efficient system. If that worked perfectly, we wouldn't need a minimum price. But there are a number of drawbacks to the ETS system. One of the drawbacks, for example, is that the system is sensitive to the lobbying of companies. We've seen that in the past. We will also have to wait and see what happens in the near future if we are to tighten up the ETS. But if that lobby is effective, I won't mention sectors, but it's been effective in the past. You're gonna give away free rights and exemptions. This means that it is ultimately less effective than it should ideally work. A second imperfection may be in the way the market works. A number of colleagues have already said that the ETS price has now risen above €50. In my view, some of these are anticipating the measures and tightening-up of the European Union: the target is 55%, which will also affect the ETS mechanism and the ETS price. But I believe that these rights are already being speculated on on the futures market in the run-up to that. This also means, in my view, that greater volatility is conceivable in the price of the ETS. This ultimately has consequences for the effectiveness of the instrument. This in turn has an impact on the security of investment for companies. That alone, I believe, is a reason to put a bottom in the ETS, so that there is a more stable price path, even towards the future. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State: is this rather fleeting analysis I am making right now? Because I have also been surprised by the rise in the ETS price and what it means. Mr. Chairman. Well, then, the context. I think the system is important. I think it is really important, for the reasons I have mentioned, that we establish the system of that minimum price in that law. This is also important for the future, not only from the imperfect functioning of the ETS, but also because in the Netherlands, for example, we have our own ambitions to do some extras in our own electricity supply if necessary and to make it sustainable. This can also be done with a leading group of countries, even as a headline on the ETS. There are good reasons for including this in the law now, but the context has changed. This concerns not only the 55% of Europe and the tightening up of the ETS, but also our neighbours, Germany, which is moving towards a 65% target. What does that ultimately mean for the bill? Then you can indeed start thinking about already increasing the price path. I think it's inevitable that that should happen. In our election programme, we have also indicated this. I think that is inevitable, but new sums will have to be made, for example. The sums on which the explanatory memorandum and the legislative proposal are now based are old sums. This applies to the PBL amounts that forecast the ETS price and are therefore related to the minimum price, but also to the amounts and calculations made on the security of supply. As Europe continues and Germany continues and the ETS price rises, does the Secretary of State not think it is necessary to clarify these sums in the short term, perhaps if we have a little more certainty about what is happening in Europe? Mr Van Raan referred to Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. In fact, you want that information to come up with a right price path for the next few years after 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u29	What I struggled with myself is the fact that you put so many instruments on top of each other. We are now pretending to discuss this law separately, but we have an emissions trading system and we have a cap on coal flow. Here we are pretending not to do anything about climate policy and as if this law should do what we want. But of course there is also a need for some kind of hygiene; what laws and instruments do you stack on each other? Because you could also say that that law is not necessary. After all, we have other instruments: we provide a high CO2 emission price or that cap on the coal stream is still going down. How do you look at stacking all these different instruments? Do you think that's effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u30	In my opinion, the accumulation of instruments is not so bad with this sustainable electricity supply, because that is what we are talking about. We look at what is happening in Europe and we look at what is necessary in the Netherlands, also in relation to what is happening in neighbouring countries. Then I think you come to a fairly rational policy. But of course Mr Bontenbal is right: climate policy is not just about electricity. The whole Climate Agreement covered many topics: from mobility, agriculture, built environment and electricity supply to industry. There, of course, you have a whole pallet, a whole range of measures that all take on these sectors. For example, we have designed this in the Netherlands in recent years, precisely to take into account different transition paths that are possible, for example in housing, industry or electricity supply. In my view, it is inevitable that we should use different instruments in all these different sectors. If you ask me as an economist, I say: you know, let's introduce the CO price worldwide. Then we'd be out of a lot of trouble and it'd all be a lot easier. But yes, the world is not perfect, so the political instruments are not working perfectly either. We will therefore have to tackle climate change with imperfect instruments, which are sometimes complementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u31	To put it more clearly, you are not really satisfied with these other instruments, namely a European CO price and a cap on coal flow, and that is why you think this is still necessary, including an increase in the price path. If the European emissions trading system is sufficiently tightened, I think it will be a very effective tool to push coal out of the market. But apparently you are not convinced of that and expect to need an additional instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u32	No. As I said at the beginning of my contribution, the ETS could theoretically work perfectly, but it doesn't work perfectly in practice. This has something to do with the sensitivity of the lobby, but also with the way in which this ETS price is ultimately achieved on the market, which also creates inefficiencies. Then it is a nice instrument that gives the market some space to determine that price and at the same time puts a public price as a bottom. I think that's a very nice combination in this bill. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the sums, which I think should be rebuilt. These sums must also be seen in the context of what is happening in the neighbouring countries, I call Germany, and of what will soon be tightening up from Brussels. How does the Secretary of State view that? Mr Grinwis has already mentioned the evaluation and proposes that it should at least be brought forward, but perhaps it should be brought forward further. How does the Secretary of State view the agreement under the Climate Agreement that changes to the price path should be announced five years in advance? That seems to me to be quite a long time now that the context has changed. I think it is necessary that the price path should be up and that we should have room for that. It has to be less than five years, and maybe it has to be much faster. How does the Secretary of State view that? Can he promise that this will eventually prove possible in the coming period? Mr. Chairman. Do you mind if I pick up one more little theme? Many technical questions and questions about the changing situation have been asked. One question has not been asked. It's kind of related to how it started with the coalition agreement. I am a financial spokesman, so I am talking about the budgetary side of the matter. In the coalition agreement, the CO minimum price was, from my mind, 620 million. Of course, that has just been adapted in the Climate Agreement. There may be good reasons for this, but I have gotten a little bit confused about how that budget has been resolved. I know that 300 million is finally covered by the non-abolition of the dividend tax. That's where she is again. In my opinion, a small particle has been solved in other climate measures. But I have a feeling there's still a hole here of about 300 million. What is that about in the CPB's path and what is that about in the Treasury's books? Because we are pretending that there will be an increase in the burden on business in the future, but you could just get 300 million off that. I would like clarification on that. As a financial spokesman, I say that we must also ensure that proposals are well covered. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Kops of the Party for Freedom Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u34	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations to Mr Bontenbal for his maiden speech and, of course, success for Mr Idsinga, who is about to speak for the first time. Mr. Chairman. The Law minimum CO price electricity generation: a national CO charge for electricity companies, among others. The CO-obsession knows no bounds. Think about it, the idea alone: the price of CO emissions. In addition, a CO levy already exists at EU level. More than 400 Dutch companies are already participating. In addition, therefore, the government is now introducing a national CO levy, a minimum price for electricity generation. And what's the purpose of this? I quote from the explanatory statement. The aim is to "encourage companies producing electricity to a greater extent to take into account in their choices the impact of CO emissions on the climate and its harmful effects on humans and the environment." With this, the Netherlands, I would like to quote again, 'take a leading role in Europe, encouraging other EU Member States (...) to pursue more ambitious energy and climate policies'. A "headrunner role." What a delusion of grandeur, I'd like to say. The Netherlands as the best climate boy in the EU class, while the Netherlands itself is responsible for only 0.35% of total global CO emissions. It's totally negligible. Although the Netherlands is introducing a thousand CO-taxes, all the other parties and the government are still so lyrical and enthusiastic about this: the Dutch climate effect is not getting any bigger. It's nothing, and it's never gonna be anything. Mr. Chairman. A national CO charge for electricity production. A minimum price of around €32 per tonne of CO in 2030. In practice, if the rate of the European CO levy is lower than the minimum price set here in the Netherlands, it will have to be paid at national level. It is also the other way around: if the EU rate is higher, there is no extra charge in the Netherlands. That system might make a lot of sense, but it's kind of weird. Because at the beginning of last year, during the corona crisis, CO emissions have fallen dramatically, especially in industry. It is precisely because of this that the European CO tariff has fallen. If that rate is below the national minimum price, precisely because of the reduced CO emissions, then additional payments must be made. And that's strange, of course, because the goal was CO reduction, right? In this way, therefore, additional payments should be made in the event of decreasing emissions. In other words, companies are penalised for their own CO reduction. That's weird. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The fact is that the European CO price has risen considerably, to around €50 per tonne. That's ten times what it was 16 years ago. On the left, there is then a welcome: 'Look, fantastic, the big polluters, the big emitters, are being tackled', but the reality is, of course, different. Because the fact is that the CO levy to be paid by energy companies is ultimately harmful for households. They're gonna take the fall eventually. A few weeks ago, gaslicht.com calculated that the energy bill will increase by €200, partly because of the increased CO price this year. And yes, that's how we see it: left and others can cheer what they want, but eventually the common man and woman have to pay, always. And yet many hundreds of thousands of households are already living in energy poverty. Hundreds of thousands of households are barely able to pay the energy bill. Energy is a basic requirement, but all these expensive climate measures have made it an priceless luxury product. Then the International Monetary Fund says that the European CO2 price is still too low, which should go even further, to about €60 per tonne. If that's gonna happen, what the hell does that do with the energy bill? I'd like a response. The conclusion is, no, no rising energy costs. How is the Secretary of State finally gonna get that energy bill to go down? Then there is the security of supply of energy. What do we read in the explanatory memorandum? In that we read that I quote "the introduction of a minimum CO price may be accompanied by security of supply risks. The efficiency of Dutch gas plants may be put under pressure in such a way that energy companies have to partially eliminate them." It's just there and it's a big deal. I quote: 'This may lead to the situation that in later years there will not be sufficient domestic production capacity available at all times to meet peak demand'. If you let that get to you. So that is called climate policy, which is called sustainability; so the light can go out literally, because there is not enough energy, because this whole climate madness has made energy far too expensive. How do you make it up? How's the Secretary of State handling this? Well, that's how we read in the pieces, we're gonna monitor it. It's right there. TenneT will identify the risks to security of supply each year. Mapping, is that all? As far as security of supply is concerned, TenneT has recently expressed itself loud and clear, namely that the entire climate policy will no longer take the supply of electricity for granted by 2025 because of the huge increase in solar and wind energy. The supply of electricity will no longer take for granted. Then there are the risks to security of supply as a result of this bill. And that while the Netherlands normally has a security of supply of 99,99%. We should be really proud of that, but that is all about climate. Conclusion: having energy at all, being able to pay for energy, living in a warm and comfortable house, it's all ruined. It must all give way to all blinding climate ideology. It's all being destroyed for 0.35% CO emissions. The PVV has said it before: this is not actually a climate policy, but it is a wrong policy. And it destroys so much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Van Weyenberg. Oh, there is another question from Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u36	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Kops; I fully agree with him. That brings me right to my question. How can it be that, where even the explanatory statement states that this is a very high risk, all these parties sitting here do not see this? How is it that the PVV and the FvD are the only parties to take this risk seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u37	That is a very good question and I would almost say: put it to the other parties. As I have already said in my closing remarks, this is based on the blinding climate ideology. That's right, everything has to give way to that. We have a fantastic and reliable energy supply with 99.99% security of supply, but that is all being destroyed. Living in a warm house, being able to pay the energy bill, it's all gotta go for those 0.35% CO emissions. If you let that sink in, it's too crazy for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u38	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I talk about the content of the law, I would like to talk about one point, namely how long this bill has been in our Chamber. It was filed two years ago. You will notice that, because the assumptions under this bill about the price of ETS are now very different. But there's a second reason why I think it's really problematic. We often call on the Secretary of State to do his tax laws not once a year in the tax plan, but to spread it a little more over the year. That is too little, but I admit that it is not very tempting that we, the time that that happens, leave that law here for two years. I understand that it was because of corona, but I think this is something that we, as members of the Finance Committee, should learn from, because I do not think it deserves the beauty prize. I encourage the Secretary of State to continue to serve as many laws as possible independently of the tax plan. That means that we can treat them in order, like today, but hopefully a little faster. Mr. Chairman. Mr Grinwis, with whom I was allowed to negotiate on this dossier during the formation and to take this issue on the same side of the table, has already given a historical review of how this law has ever been implemented. When I look where we are now, I have mixed feelings about it. First of all, I am very pleased, because the fact that the ETS price is now €50 per tonne, which makes us wonder whether the price path is still right, is, of course, very good news. ETS, the European price of CO emissions, is the very best way to reduce CO emissions, if you do so properly and honestly. Then we'll have to get rid of the free charges. In that case, the levies must also be adapted to the much more ambitious climate target as far as we are concerned. The 55% in Europe would really be a further step forward, but the fact that the ETS price has risen significantly is good news. In theory, this bill could still bite if the ETS price drops in the coming period, but that would be very bad news. So I hope this law never means anything. Indeed, if this law is going to mean something, the ETS price has gone down again. That would be bad news for the climate. At the same time, something has changed in relation to the coalition agreement. Mr Kees Vendrik, a prominent GroenLinkspoliticus who led a climate agreement table, said: beware, because if you love electricity production, the lignite will go on and the gas plants will go off. This was also heard in the Climate Agreement. The result is an amended proposal, a ban on coal, a levy on industrial emissions. That wasn't in the coalition agreement. However, it does mean that there is now a price path in the legislative proposal which is very different from the current ETS price. I see Mr Van Raan standing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u40	Yes. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u41	Well seen, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg. I don't get it. He started his argument with the story that he made this law at the table of the previous cabinet formation and that it is also intended to combat climate change by reducing CO emissions by pricing. But I hear him say, "I hope the law doesn't work." Given the purpose of the law, I don't think it's desirable to charge CO to bring it down. Isn't it better to fix the law so that it will work for the reduction of CO emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u42	I said something else: if this law is going to bite. This bill actually puts a bottom in the price, but above all I hope that the ETS price will never go down to that bottom again. That's the point I made. During these negotiations, led by Mr Vendrik, the conclusion was: beware, because industry can be stricter and the coal plants can be dealt with. That's what we're gonna do. There are many other things in the Climate Agreement that I like. The conclusion was also: beware of the electricity sector that you do not put the security of supply in too much danger and that you do not allow Dutch power stations to go out and that this is taken over by even more polluting power stations in Germany, for example. That's a legitimate concern. That is why the Climate Agreement states that electricity production must, of course, contribute to the reduction of CO emissions. But that instrument of the coalition agreement has been somewhat overtaken. Then you could say, "That's good." I see Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u43	Just finish your speech, and I'll watch the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u44	That's good, Mr. Chairman. You could say: it's nice that you're sitting underneath it, but the bill says the price path should rise to 90% of the expected ETS price. That was true at the time the bill was submitted, but we are now far from it. That also raises questions for my group: to what extent does this bill still work? That is why I should like to ask the Secretary of State two questions. Can he confirm that if we fix the 55% reduction in Europe, which has to be translated into the Netherlands? My party wants to go even further at national level, as is stated in our election programme. If a new coalition agreement is to be reached with a more ambitious objective than 49%, then you will also have to ensure that the electricity sector will make an additional contribution to this additional task. That probably also means that you need to see if that price path doesn't have to go up significantly. Mr Grinwis and Mr Snels, as well as others, asked whether we could not look at that price path again. I'd like to ask that question, too. I believe that more ambition, something that my group wants, should also mean something for that price path. So I am now signing for the Climate Agreement. My party stands for that signature underneath. However, the gap between the ETS price and the minimum price in this bill is far from what was originally intended. Therefore, should this price path not be reviewed, especially if we continue to increase our ambition in the Netherlands, as I sincerely hope, to 55% or, as far as my group is concerned, to 60%. Mr. Chairman. That also fits with a second inconvenience I have with this bill. That's the asymmetry or the inequality. In case of a risk of security of supply, you must act quickly. I get that. That is also stated in the law: then something can be done about it. But if you want to raise the price, it has to be five years in advance. I understand the importance of certainty, and I understand the fact that you wouldn't want to do it overnight, but can the Secretary of State confirm that if, for example, it turns out that we have a more ambitious climate target, then you can't do anything for five years? Then we're probably gonna need more from all sectors in our economy. Then it seems strange to me to exclude the electricity sector from that. That position of exception seems undesirable to me. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? And does he agree with my group that you should act then? I am going to co-sign Mr Grinwis' amendment, but other colleagues were right to say that if there are new targets in the future, then this bill will not mean that it will have an impact on all sectors, but not on electricity production. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I see Mr Thijssen now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u45	I am paying attention to the interruptions; leave that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u46	You know me as helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u47	I appreciate that. Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u48	I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's speech. I think it is very good that there is still freedom of action for another cabinet and that this cabinet does not rule over its grave. But I also note that this cabinet is not achieving its goals and that this cabinet must also take an extra step towards achieving its own CO targets. Can we not say now: make a new calculation, come up with a new price path and make sure that the electricity sector now makes the contribution that needs to be made to achieve the goals of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u49	A small distinction: this cabinet needs to do more to reach the Urgenda goals in the short term. You also discussed this with my colleague Raoul Boucke. There is no misunderstanding about this; the cabinet must come forward with proposals for this. I'll leave it to the cabinet to do whatever's in there. If the cabinet believes that this also applies to the electricity sector, I would like to hear it. Moreover, I do not have the impression that the failure to meet the objectives in relation to the original agreements is specific to the electricity sector. To be honest, my picture is that it's in other sectors. If you would now increase the price path to 90% of the current ETS price, that still does not make an additional contribution tomorrow. It only gives an extra lock on the door, which is much firmer than the lock that's on it right now. So I very much agree with you that we need to be more ambitious and I agree with you that all economic conditions mean that we are "saved by the bell" with Urgenda by 2020. The fact that we need to do much more is obvious, but I am honestly thinking more of reducing ETS rights much more quickly. If you change the minimum price and allow it to be passed on, I think that could contribute very little in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u50	I'm very optimistic about how much more can come out. For me, this is not about the Urgenda target, but about the goal of the 2030 Climate Agreement and its path. So I would very much like to make that calculation again and see what the effect can be, and then change the price path in the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u51	I get that. I just asked for an actualization myself. But there is one warning from Kees Vendrik that I do take seriously: if you call it "that's what separates my party's accounts sometimes from those of other people, you want to take into account what it does for the global climate. I want to make sure that we do something which seems national, but which causes global pollution. I know that Mr Thijssen does not want that either. I think what we can do at national level is... Look, if the electricity sector can help, I'd like to hear that, but if that means that pollution is just moving, I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u52	Of course, I totally agree with that. That is the last thing the Labour Party wants, that all kinds of activity goes abroad. We just need to stop our own pants and bring back our pollution. But abroad isn't still either. In Germany, there has been a sort of Urgenda statement and the government has listened to it; they are now going to reduce CO emissions by 65%, rather than the 49% that this cabinet wants or the 55% that Europe wants. Since Mr Vendrik's calculations, therefore, foreign countries have also changed. So I'm thinking, let's recalculate and now let's reset a price path.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u53	Certainly, but that has led to something much more beautiful than a minimum price path, namely a much higher price of ETS. That's still the best part. Furthermore, I am proud of the Climate Act, with your group, and of the fact that this cabinet, with all the things that we have yet to do, I agree with everyone who says that it is not enough, unlike previous Cabinets, has taken really big steps. Do you need more? Absolutely. But that doesn't make me less proud or less combatable for the future. I hope I will find Mr Thijssen by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u54	I hear things about theoretical models and abbreviations of European taxes and the like, but I wonder if you are not losing touch with reality. That may not only apply to you, but also to other parties here. I am sure that if we were to walk down the street now with this explanatory statement and if we were to ask people if they thought it would be a good idea to introduce a law that would have the effect of being viewed by an investigative agency that the security of supply of electricity could no longer be guaranteed, anyone to whom you ask would say: no, I think that would be a very bad idea. And yet here we are doing it. How come you can't see we're doing something totally wasted here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps because, unlike Mr Jansen, I have apparently read the documents, which say that we are doing something other than the original plan to avoid risks of security of supply. That is why there is a different proposal here than in the coalition agreement. But I dare to face another challenge. If you go on talking to people and you say what we're doing this for, they say, "you know, I want me and my kids to have a little cleaner air, we stop global warming and everyone has to do their part, including the electricity sector." I'm sure a lot of people support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u56	There's a lot in here. Indeed, they are all interesting statements. Firstly, on clean air: that is what everyone wants, of course. But the consequence of the current policy is that the air is becoming increasingly polluted by all those biomass plants. They are much more polluting than coal energy, for example. But that's not the point. I have the pieces here with me, so you can also read these. I wonder if you did. I can also quote: "Frontier Economics concludes that the introduction of a minimum CO price may be accompanied by security of supply risks." It's gonna go on for a while. But I think it would be good if you read it, too. Again, the question. I don't think there's any support for this. I don't think you'd dare ask people that, too. I think you're playing a ghost game here, because you know people don't want this. There's been enough research on that, too. Maurice the Dog measured that a few years ago. When you ask people, "What do you want to pay for that climate policy?', This does not exceed €5 per month, in 40% of cases. So, yeah, maybe people want to do something about the climate, but if they have to pay, or if their power goes off, they definitely don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u57	A few things. Firstly, on the basis of all these research reports, there is a very different proposal from the original proposal. Two, underlying is that I think there's a climate problem. You don't think so. I think so, and that with me is about every reasonable scientist in the world, including that we should do something about it. And then there's something else. I'm fine with you having your discussion on polls, I'm happy to get it out of conviction and then I'm going out on the street to tell people why I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u58	Okay, of course, we're having our debates with conviction. I couldn't agree more. My belief is that people need cheap, reliable power. If that's in danger, I wonder what we're doing. I ask you: is that also something that you think is important? 'Cause that's what you're risking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u59	Firstly, I am opposed to putting that at risk, and secondly, the fact that we now have to import oil from unstable regimes, such as Russia but also other countries in the Middle East, and the fact that we are less dependent on it by generating green electricity ourselves leads, as far as I am concerned, to much more security of supply and, by the way, to a much better geopolitical relationship. So I can highly recommend that. We are only at the beginning, but I assume that from now on I will find Mr Jansen at my side when it comes to windmills at sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you. Then there is Mr Thijssen from the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to colleague Bontenbal for a very nice maiden speech and very good luck immediately for the other colleague of the VVD. It also reminded me of my own maiden speech, not so long ago, in which I called up the image of the earth you see from space, where you clearly see at a glance that it is finite and that we should respect humanity for the planetary boundaries. It is not only me who thinks so, that is also the Dutch Bank, the KNMI, Greenpeace and Eneco, which has come up with an extremely ambitious plan, and frankly I think this government too. Because this cabinet has also said it wants to be the greenest cabinet ever and has set a CO target that was far more ambitious than the government before. It is important to note that, because it is just a hard border, a hard planetary border, which humanity is running into. We can have a debate on how to stay within these limits. The PvdA believes that current climate policy needs to be much fairer. But the fact that there's a hard line, a lot of people agree on that. And a lot of organizations are happy to agree on that. Which brings me to this bill. I'm super, super happy with this bill, because it's terribly important that CO pollution finally gets a prize for a lot of reasons. Because then it pays to do it in a green way. But it is also extremely important that polluters start paying. Because that is important for the sense of justice of us, of the people in our society. These people cannot accept that polluters can continue to pollute, catch subsidies, but are barely going to pay for their own pollution. It is therefore extremely important that these large polluters are indeed given a CO2 price. This can therefore be a supereffective measure. Now that 75% of people want good climate policy, this can ensure that it remains 75% and that more and more people do not want climate policy. Now I have two problems with this law. I'd like the Secretary of State to take that up. One is that the price path that is now in the law is totally ineffective. It's been said before. It does not contribute to reducing CO pollution, because the ETS price is so high. All the arguments that have just been mentioned, namely that we came up with this two or three years ago, that it is in the Climate Agreement and that we want to leave it that way, I understand, but the overall aim of the Climate Agreement was to achieve a certain CO reduction in 2030, which is far from being achieved. I therefore believe that it is justified to say that we are looking again at the price path. Doesn't the Secretary of State think it would be much smarter not to set a price path in the law, but to say: this is one of the instruments with which we are going to achieve the goal in 2030 and beyond, how high we are going to make the price depends on the price of coal, the gas price, the ETS price and what our neighbouring countries are doing; on that basis, we are going to set a minimum CO price once a year. Then we really have an instrument in our hands that can increase support, save the climate and reduce CO pollution. Let's face it: we need this instrument as much as we need it. It's inevitable. The judge has already put a terrible finger on us with the Urgendavonnis on emissions from 2020. We see that in neighbouring countries, for example in Germany, the judge has also been very hard on the government. They're going a lot further now, too. So it's waiting for an organisation or an individual in the Netherlands to start a lawsuit on the targets in 2030. Then we're gonna have to die, too. Let's not get back into a situation like this with Urgenda. Let's be more progressive. Let's show leadership as politics, and let's set up this law properly, so that it can actually work. And then my second concern. It just came up in my debate with my colleague from D66. I have a feeling that this law governs his grave. If we now set the price for five years, when this is just such an important tool to steer climate policy and ensure that we achieve our goal, I think that this law will miss its goal. My question to the Secretary of State is: can we not shorten that deadline to one year? If we stick to five years, can the Secretary of State promise me that we do not have to fear damage claims from, for example, the coal companies that are going to be affected by a different price path, if we change that gradually? Can the Secretary of State undertake that coal companies cannot derive rights from what is stated in the explanatory memorandum, namely that a price change or a minimum CO price change must be announced five years in advance? Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I am waiting for the answers from the Secretary of State, but I am considering an amendment in this line, so we are not so much introducing a price path into the law, but we are saying that this is the instrument and, depending on the price of coal, the ETS price and all the other prices, we are setting the price path every year. That is what we do around the KEV, because that is when we know what climate policy is like. In this way, we prevent coal companies and other companies from making claims for damages, because of the annoying five years in the explanatory memorandum. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u62	You have a question, but may I give you a moment first? You signed up for 15 minutes, and you only made up five of them. As a Griffin, we divide the day by the number of speakers and speaking time. If every speaker gives up ten more minutes, we book all day, but the debates in practice are much shorter. That can make a lot of difference with plans, for example with ten speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u63	I will interrupt a bit later, but I had tried to tell you that I wanted to speak for six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u64	Forgive you, but for the future. It also applies to the others. Mr Bontenbal has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd love to take those ten minutes with me in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u66	No, that's not the point!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u67	Oh, isn't that right? I would like to put the same question to Mr Thijssen as to GroenLinks. I think we all want the CO intensity of the electricity mix down. The discussion is about what are the most appropriate instruments. There is a European emissions trading system, we have a bottom price and we have a cap. What do you think is the most appropriate instrument? Do you think it's wise to keep stacking those three together? I look very much for effective climate policy rather than doing things for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u68	I think that the price of CO is not for the stage, but one of the most effective environmental measures we can introduce. You can see how complex our society is and how complex it is to let CO go down in all those different places in our society. Society must be triggered to enter a transition. 'Cause that's what it's all about, of course. We can have a very beautiful society that is completely climate-neutral, but then we have to get into that transition, as we did with wind at sea. Then I don't think you can say: what is the one environmental measure we're going to save the world with? There's no such thing. The Climate Agreement consists of 600 measures. Maybe it could be a few less, but we need a lot of measures to get all the frogs in the wheelbarrow in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u69	Fine. That's great. Thank you. Now is the happy moment of Mr Idsinga's maiden speech. We're gonna sit extra tight and listen to him with a lot of pleasure. I call Mr Idsinga of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Bontenbal on his good maiden speech. He set the bar quite high for me, for which I am grateful. Shortly after my installation as MP, I was interviewed by Omrop Fryslân, the Frisian regional broadcaster. Expectably, the journalist asked me what portfolio I had been given. With sincere pride I told him that was the Taxation portfolio. Apparently disappointed he then asked me what was so sexy about that. Taxes, that was boring anyway! My answer was that taxes are extremely sexy, but that's not what I'm doing. It is a matter of substance. As a parliament, we must ensure proper and enforceable legislation and control the government. I was quite satisfied that I had answered that question in this way, until later in the day it started to gnaw a little bit. Why did I only give you half an answer? Then why did I think taxation was so important and sexy? As often you will find the answer in yourself: in how you grew up and socialized, in what you consciously and unconsciously received from parents, ancestors and surroundings with the spoon. My father was a teacher and my mother worked as a teacher at a folk college in my early years and later in health care. So at home it was all about education and care. But above all, it was about encouragement in my neighborhood. I mentioned all that folk college. That was something unique. In the crisis of the 1930s, a young idealist, Mr Van der Wielen, went from Amsterdam to the middle of nowhere in the high north. In the neighborhood of Allardsoog, in a beautiful forest and heathland, he made his dreams come true. According to Danish example, he founded the first Dutch folk college there, a stone's throw away from where I was born, much later. A folk college isn't what the name suggests. It is not a school in the classical sense. The aim of the institute was to help the then very poor rural population to emancipate and develop from their own strength and abilities. In those early years, the so-called teaching methods used to consist of mere conversations, in which local farmers or unemployed young people talked and learned from each other, for example about innovative farming methods or livingability. Sharing best practices, that would be called right now. They weren't top-down courses. Encouragement in self-development was the common thread. Raising awareness and strengthening people's own abilities to create themselves was the goal. The human dimension was central. It was a great success at the time. After six weeks of folk college, almost all the unemployed found work in those crisis years. That folk college, a stone's throw from my parents' home, unfortunately no longer exists. There is also a replica of the monumental main building in Madurodam, near here. Yet, in its own way, this institute has contributed to a more beautiful world. Even though I have never been to that school myself, the proximity and dynamics of the institute have also subconsciously influenced me in my thinking and my doings. In my 25 years as a fiscalist, I always got energy if I could encourage others. Often this was when accompanying the young staff, teaching students or, perhaps the most beautiful, giving practical courses to people who were responsible for, for example, filling in VAT returns. Then taxation itself. That's a nice job. Taxation is essential if we are to be able to finance our society. She ensures safety and makes loving care and good education possible. Taxation affects all of us. Often it even deliberately or unconsciously directs our behavior. She keeps us all busy. She also does very well at parties and parties, from mortgage interest deduction to dog tax, from bpm to addition. What do you mean, boring? Everyone has an opinion on it. Unfortunately, taxation also has very nasty edges. We are all aware of the reports on tax evasion and avoidance or the reports on families who have become in serious trouble with the childcare allowance. For the past 25 years I have been able to deal with consumption taxes, particularly turnover taxes, also known as VAT. That's one of the oldest taxes in the world. The ancient Romans have already served themselves. The introduction of a tenth medal in the Netherlands by the Spanish Duke of Alva in 1569 led to the Eighty Years' War. So that was because of a VAT of 10%. Taxes: how boring? Modern VAT has been introduced in Europe as a temporary tax measure to finance the First World War. It is therefore always careful with temporary fiscal measures, as they still exist so far. In fact, he's moving on around the world. In the year 2000 I myself had the pleasure of participating in the introduction of a VAT system in Australia. Why didn't I tell the reporter? Of course, I could have made it very small and very human. Taxation is very often made up of small stories that affect people, miniatures, almost fairy tales. Often the most appealing casuism comes from case law about real people. One of those little stories won me over for that fine craft at the time. That is Mr Tolsma's wonderful business. The case even reached the European Court of Justice and is one of the most important rulings in the field of VAT. The case was about Mr. Tolsma. Mr. Tolsma has a rotating organ. He has a rotating organ with which he makes music on the shopping street. He holds passers-by a ringing money box in which they may or may not dump some change. The final question was whether Mr Tolsma had to pay VAT on these receipts in his bin, in other words whether he was providing a supply or a service for VAT. Often the Chamber is divided when I present this matter as a quiz question. I'll spare you that today. The Court of Justice ruled that Mr Tolsma was not liable for VAT. There was no enforceable legal relationship between Tolsma and his audience. Tolsma was playing hard to get. Some people gave something, others walked unflinchingly. So Tolsma's money tray remained VAT-free. But if Tolsma was in the same place for too long and the resident of the nearby building was asked of organ music and Tolsma to stand a little further up with his organ for a small fee, then there was a legal relationship. Then there was causality and then the remuneration received by Tolsma was a consideration for his service provided. That service wasn't making music, it was getting the hell out of here. So he had to pay VAT on that amount. Isn't it a wonderful world, this taxation? It's exciting, it's sexy and it grabs everyone's life. Mr. Chairman. Today there is again such an exciting tax law before it, namely the Law on minimum CO2 prices for electricity generation. This is a new tax without revenue. The aim of the Act is to encourage companies that produce electricity to take into account the effects of CO2 emissions on the climate and its harmful effects on humans and the environment in their choices. The VVD Group supports these objectives. The Netherlands is at the forefront of continental Europe with the minimum price. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how the Netherlands is using this leading role within Europe to persuade other countries to achieve such a minimum CO2 price. From there, we can only take real steps. It is crucial to achieve a level playing field at European level. In addition, it is important for the primary purpose of reducing CO2. The minimum price should not lead to problems with security of supply. That is currently regulated by the law. I would like to emphasise that importance once again. The Dutch Emission Authority will be responsible for monitoring, charging and introducing this tax. The Council of State is critical of this and believes that the Tax Administration should actually be responsible for this. In principle, I strongly agree with that, but given the current difficulties in the Tax Administration, given that the Dutch Emission Authority is already responsible for monitoring and given that this bill is not likely to lead to actual tax collection for the time being, I understand the government's position on this point. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to be very reluctant in the future to keep fiscal duties away from the Tax Administration. I would like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then I touched on the concerns expressed by the Council of State in the area of State aid rules. In the meantime we have some bad experiences with that. The minimum price is limited to undertakings producing electricity. Other sectors also covered by the EU ETS are not covered by this bill. This difference in treatment may give rise to State aid discussions. Hopefully this concern is unjustified, but I would like the Secretary of State to give me a further explanation and comfort on this important point. I would also like to stress the administrative burden on businesses. The information should be kept as closely as possible in line with existing obligations. The VVD considers it wise that the cabinet should abandon the obligation to have an electricity emission report and such if the rate to be charged is nil. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the possible extension of the tasks of the Dutch Emission Authority. The cabinet seems to believe that these tasks can be met within the current organisation. I would like another confirmation from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Back to what I started. Taxation intervenes in everyone's life. As Members of Parliament, as colleagues, we have an expensive duty to implement good legislation and to check these laws on feasibility and human standards. Let's encourage each other and keep each other sharp to do this as best we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u71	Look! That's a beautiful maiden speech. You have your mouth full of teeth in front of a journalist, but you still know how to make a speech of ten minutes. That's incredibly beautiful. I'll be the first to congratulate you. If you stand here, the congratulations and the flowers will come your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u72	The Secretary of State is gone for a while. I'm gonna suspend for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u73	We're continuing. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to Mr Bontenbal and Mr Idsinga. And a very warm welcome to the people in the public gallery, because it has been a while since I saw people sitting in that gallery. I am very glad that we are reducing the coronazotness a little bit and that people can be present at debates again. I'm very happy about that. Unfortunately for the spectators, this is a sad debate. It is yet another step in a series of disappointing decisions that we can unfortunately interrupt after today. For the past ten years, the energy bill has increased by 30%. If it is up to these parties, it will be much more in the coming years. Because VVD and CDA, together with D66 and GroenLinks, have decided to raise a minimum price on CO. Previously, they filed the controversial climate law together. Today's law forces electricity companies to pay taxes per tonne of CO released from their valuable work, generating cheap and reliable electricity for all Dutch. The European Union already obliges companies to buy rights to emit CO. But with this law, the thumbscrews are turned even further. The aim of this law is to ensure that CO emissions become so expensive that all reliable coal and gas plants, which generate most of our electricity, are no longer profitable and will have to be replaced by unreliable wiggle current such as wind turbines and solar panels. Of these, it is not certain at what time they do and do not supply electricity, and if the wind does not blow or the sun does not shine, the Netherlands will have no power. The proponents of this disastrous plan will accuse us of seriously exaggerating this risk. But it is not only FvD that warns about this; also the own research agency that has been engaged by EZK and Finance does so. I quote from the explanatory memorandum to this law; I found it really shocking to read this. "On behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Secretary of State for Finance, Frontier Economics has investigated the effects of a national introduction of the minimum CO price in conjunction with the coal ban. The study sets out separately and jointly the effects of a minimum CO price and the ban on coal for electricity production. On 10 July 2018, the results of this study were sent to the Dutch Parliament. Frontier Economics concludes that the introduction of a minimum CO price may be accompanied by security of supply risks. Frontier indicates that a unilateral CO-minimum price puts a strain on the efficiency of Dutch gas plants in such a way that energy companies should have "decommissioned" the law by 2020. As a result, the situation may arise that in later years (2025 to 2030) there will not be sufficient domestic production capacity and interconnection capacity available at all times to meet peak demand. This entails risks in terms of security of supply." Mr President, where is it going with this country? Last winter we saw this horror scenario become reality in Texas. There were 3 million people without power in the cold. The wind turbines that Texans depend on were frozen and then they don't turn. Also in Sweden, where it was relatively wind silent and cold this winter, wind turbines stopped. Who would have thought it would get cold in Sweden...Stop vacuuming, was the advice of the Swedish public service broadcaster to the Swedish people who temporarily ran out of electricity. That's better for the environment and its own wallet, according to the state broadcaster. You know what's better for the environment? Stop putting all those windmills everywhere that cut endangered birds of prey in half. Stop putting biomass plants everywhere where entire forests disappear in the stove. Stop putting out solar fields that leak heavy metals into the ground and damage biodiversity on the ground. And you know what's better for your own wallet? I can't believe we're quitting this expensive madness. I am, of course, not an engineer, but I do expect from our Minister, Mr Delors, I hope to speak through the Secretary of State who wants to pass this on, who has decided to fill up the entire North Sea, a large part of the IJsselmeer and a large part of the mainland with all these horrible windmills in order to turn it into a kind of graveyard of those scary white poles and who has decided that coal and gas power stations should all be closed down in the short term, that the Minister has thought about what the consequences of this policy could be and whether to await us Texas conditions. There are all kinds of windmills with all kinds of characteristics, I've been told. Most wind turbines run from wind force 3 to wind force 10. You have special windmills that run from wind force 10, but not when the wind force is lower. The temperature also affects this, I've heard. I would like to know from the Minister, perhaps that can be passed on to the Minister of EZK how this is done in the Netherlands. Can the Minister send an overview to the Chamber of all Dutch wind turbine parks, the year they were installed, the type of windmills that run there, the minimum and maximum temperatures at which they are operational, the minimum and maximum wind speed at which they are operational and how much power each wind turbine park generates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u75	You are now asking questions to a minister who is not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u76	Yes. Perhaps you could pass this on to the right minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u77	No, I'm not going through anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u78	Ah, I always like that phrase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u79	Yes, you asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u80	Do I have to file this in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u81	Yeah, I think it's best if you just ask Parliamentary questions to the minister in question. This Secretary of State may want to say something about that, but it's not about it. Then it's weird to ask him a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u82	This debate, of course, affects much more than just the state's finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u83	I understand that, but we only have one ruler here, and that's the governor of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u84	That's true, of course. Then I will submit them in writing, but I am very curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u85	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u86	And then I hope that Minister can guarantee that Dutch people will never run out of electricity. I hope that Minister will also respond to the warning given by Research Office Frontier Economics. By the way, the Secretary of State can respond to that, because that was partly on behalf of the Treasury. Frontier Economics concludes that the CO price ensures that the security of supply can no longer be guaranteed at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u87	Yes. Well, good luck with your Chamber questions then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u88	But these are...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u89	Oh, this one, then? Okay. Mr. Bontenball.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u90	I hear so much bullshit being told in a row now. I was actually going to sit down, but perhaps I can still take Mr Thijssen's ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u91	What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u92	Well, I understand a lot. One point about Texas, for example. You call that a moment between the nose and the lips.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u93	Would you like to speak through the chairman? So Mr Jansen mentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u94	Big power outages, February 2021. That's what we've been investigating. It turns out that this is not primarily due to wind turbines. This was also apparent from frozen pipes, gas plants and so on. You can find all those reports. You are now blamming the sustainable energy supply, but research shows that this is not the case. The pictures that went around on Twitter at the time turned out to be made. Those were frozen wind turbines in Sweden. You can read all that back. What you're doing now is another whole tirade of fake news, and so on. You are simply failing to do good research into what sustainable energy supply is and what the pros and contras are. This is just warmed-up cabal and it's a bunch of bullshit. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u95	I distance myself from these qualifications. I'm not referring at all to pictures of windmills. I was referring to the news that this happened in Texas. Perhaps it is true that it has also dealt with other electricity supplies. But when it comes to Sweden, this was certainly the reason why this happened. You can also read the explanatory memorandum to this law, which warns of this serious risk. I hope that you are really open to that and not blind-tailed at some sort of ideological superstition, but actually take the risks involved seriously. Oh, I hope Mr. Bontenball does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u96	Look, it's a learning moment. Mr Bontenbal, also through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u97	I have worked in the energy sector for a number of years, so you do not have to tell me what security of supply is and how important that is. I think it's very important and we should look at it. In my view, that is exactly why the price path was placed below that €43 per tonne. You are all quoting research, but that is precisely why that price path has been adjusted. In my view, you have not read the documents properly and you are simply quoting them from reports. I don't know where you're getting it all from, but I don't think it makes much sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u98	First, it was Texas that wouldn't be right. Now it turns out to be true. And now it would be about security of supply. It's really there. That price has indeed been put under the ETS price, but I am very curious to ask the Minister whether it will remain so. If you look at that table, the price that the Netherlands has set triples in ten years. And it is also the case that the Climate Agreement takes the most draconian measures from 2030, for example when it comes to making homes gas-free. By 2030, 1.5 million homes must have been taken off the gas and then, by 2050, all 8 million homes. That's how this policy works. Hiding-and-seek is played every time with the year 2030, but the real consequences come in 2050. Then that price will certainly come to an end. At least I predict it, because you will all agree and then people will pay for that power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u100	Whether or not you believe in climate change is, of course, an important starting point for this discussion. For example, Mr Kops of the PVV and the SP will not agree on this, while we can find each other very much on, for example, measures against energy poverty and that sort of thing. What bothers me a little is using examples that don't add up. There are plenty of examples that you can use and they are right. Look, for example, at how Mr Kops has been doing this all along.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u101	I don't hear a question, but I'm willing to answer it. The examples are correct. So I don't know exactly what you're referring to. It's kind of a general remark. I agree that we should use examples that are correct. In my belief, I have done the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u102	Not in my belief, because everything is predicted: beware, after 2030; it is a bigger plan, it is a plot. You may believe that, but show it to me. We also recently had a committee debate on energy and climate, in which Mr Jansen was present. That was one big story, five minutes long, about the plot, without a single question or contribution to the debate. It's okay. But this is a legal procedure. Explaining your vote is fine, but, as Mr Bontenbal says, a comment on the use of an example of energy outages not related to renewable energy should be made by Mr Jansen. I think we should address each other when that happens. That is why I would also like to appeal to Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u103	Thank you for addressing me. Mrs Leijten cites another example, namely that my prediction would be that more stringent measures will be taken after 2030. That wasn't just taken out of the sky. That is what the climate agreement says. I mentioned an example of the degassing of houses. It does say in the Climate Agreement that this real battle will come after 2030. This also concerns, for example, making houses gas-free compulsory. It's being discussed now. It is not possible yet, but if it does not go well enough in 2030, then we will have to oblige it after 2030. That's what it says. I read that. I can send it to you if you haven't read it. So those aren't examples I just made up, ma'am. These are just things that are in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u104	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u105	On the question of gas-freeing houses and future residential areas or houses that are already there, and how that is organised now, including subsidy policy, we may very often agree. But what Mr Jansen just did was say that after 2030 it will only get worse. You may think so, from the perspective that you do not accept climate change and think all the policies are bullshit, but support it with examples that are right. You really were a bit derogatory to Mr Bontenbal. It just indicated that Texas' story wasn't right. It was then distributed that the energy in Texas would have gone out because of the sustainable generation, but it's been figured out and it's not right. That seems to me to be something that Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy should be purely in. We shouldn't spread fake news on a subject where we're all looking for solutions, whether you believe it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u106	I understand your point, thank you very much. I'm sure it's not fake news. If there appears to be an extensive research report that does not show that, I would very much like to read it. But there are also a lot of other points of view that do not say so. Mr. Bontenbal referred to a photo. That's what I've been hacking into. I would have based my views on seeing a picture that would actually come from Sweden. Well, I don't even know about the existence of that photo. So I responded to that. However, there is evidence to believe that in Texas wind power failure has caused a very serious problem, because it has resulted in a significant reduction in capacity. That is what has happened in Sweden, and that is what is going to happen here. Frontier Economics warns of that. That's just in the explanatory statement. So we can go back and forth here for a long time in the sense of "you find this" and "you find that." These may be differences of interpretation of the facts, but I cast the accusation that I am spreading fake news here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u107	Then just a little bit in a yes-no form. I read that report, too. The crux, I believe, is that the climate agreement, which Mr Jansen does not believe in, has chosen a form that is different from the original plan because of concerns. I do not deny the concerns about security of supply, but it would be a credit to Mr Jansen if he said that, on the basis of all these reports, there was a very different proposal in this bill than what was originally conceived. So something's been done with that report. I find it problematic when a report on proposal 1 and everything that comes with the documents now is put on proposal 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u108	Yes, Chairman, you never know how long it'll take. But thank you; you were relatively succinct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u109	I'm just asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u110	He's going to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u111	I was just gonna grab a drink, but you were done by then. On that other proposal, keeping those prices low; that is why I made that 2030 issue. Now it remains below the ETS price, but my prediction is that the national price is not about the ETS price, which means that there will be an additional charge on CO. Perhaps you do not agree with that and I hope you will vote against it if that proposal is forthcoming, but I suspect that you are in favour of it. I have just heard you have a brief debate on this. There has just been a whole debate here about the toothlessness of this law because it does not really impose taxes. There's an intention to do that. That may not be the case at the moment, but it is likely to happen after 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u112	Two things. For starters, that intention is not there because I hope that the ETS price will then be so high that it will help us to indeed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u113	That's just a pocket pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u114	We just saw the exposure of Forum fake news. First it is said: this law is a tragedy; it goes wrong! Then Mr Bontenball comes up with facts and you say: it is not. Then the answer is: no, okay, it's not now, but it could be in the future. That's a lot of thinking in conspiracies, too. That's how you scare people. That's how you spread fake news. That's actually saying: hey, look, I saw a unicorn there! No, we say it's not a unicorn. "No, but he could come tomorrow." As far as I am concerned, this level does not contribute to a substantive debate. Mr Jansen may find anything he finds, but he scares people with an incorrect rendering. If that is rejected by colleagues, he says: that could happen in the future. That's how you scare people and you don't make a real contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mr Van Weyenberg has exposed me. I got caught. I scared people on purpose. Whatever. No, of course not! I can send you my text if you have not listened, but I did not say in my entire text that there is a price now, and I did not back down at all and did not say: there is no price. No, I quoted from the explanatory statement, which states that there is a risk to energy security. Then I made another point. That's what it says here. I can read it to you. I'm just gonna grab it again. That's the part... well, I don't see it right now. Yes, here: "For in the bill, the amounts are set out that there is no need to pay any additional tax for the time being. The CO price plan starts with a low rate, but this will be tripled within ten years." I just said that in response to an interruption. So I think I have been very clear in my answer and here I am making a caricature of what I have said. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u116	Fine. You continue and round off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u117	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This point has actually already come through in an interruption, but given the fact that you want me to complete my speaking time, I can just finish it. Haha. In the legislative proposal, the amounts are arranged in such a way that there is no need to pay any additional tax for the time being. The CO pricing plan starts with a relatively low CO price, which thus remains below the ETS price, but is already tripled within ten years. The table ends at 2030, but what will prevent the next legislators from raising prices? After 2030, the Climate Agreement will also release all the brakes. I just outlined it. Most of the most draconian measures cover the period between 2030 and 2050. That is interesting, because neither this law, nor the explanatory statement, which has just been referred to, refers to the year 2050, which is the year that the climate objectives must ultimately be met under the climate law that you have submitted. Can the Minister promise that the CO2 price will not increase further after 2030, should this terrible plan be supported by the Chamber? Because that is the trend we have seen: ever higher taxes, the introduction of the ODE, increasing electricity and gas taxes. If the power load goes down, the gas load goes up. There's been cheating all the time, but eventually people have to pay more at the bottom of the line. If we can believe climate parties, that additional tax money will perhaps, in the most optimistic scenario, bring us to 0,00007 degrees less warming for thousands of billions of euros. The only consequence in the real world is that people have to pay more. 21% of Dutch households are already barely able to pay their bills on time and are already suffering from late payments. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten, who also mentioned this. This is a very real thing. It may be easy for you to pay the energy bill, but it is not for a lot of people. How are people going to insulate their homes hermetically? How are they going to buy a heat pump of €20,000? What the hell are people gonna pay for that? Your theoretical fairy tale world with CO prices and green electricity has real consequences for normal people. The additional costs that electricity companies will have to incur in the long term may not yet be incurred, but if it's up to you, perhaps the price of electricity will of course be passed on. Normal people are gonna pay for that. Anyone with a common sense understands that, so I am once again inviting Mr Van Weyenberg to join us on the streets to ask if people are waiting for that. Because the only thing normal people are going to get from all this climate policy is a high energy bill and a cold house. Mr. Chairman. It seems clear to me that we should not adopt this law and I hope that the rest of the Chamber will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you. I also ask you to time well, because you are only eight minutes away and you requested 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u119	But I've made up for a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u120	Do you know what the cynical thing about the whole example of Texas is? It is precisely the changing weather conditions, this extreme cold, that caused it to go wrong there. For ten years there was a warning of this kind of circumstance. The regulator didn't do enough. You can find all that in the reports, by the way. That is the cynical thing: precisely because of climate change, the energy system has become more vulnerable there. Wind energy is only a limited part of the energy supply there, so it can't have made such a big hit. The largest explosion that was made there, including by freezing gas pipes, took place at the gas plants. It went down there in one go 10 gigawatts. Climate change has caused it to go wrong there and then it was the gas plants that went out first and caused the biggest problem. I don't know where you got all your stories, but I'm afraid these are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u121	So global warming has made it colder? It's always these things. Last year it was very hot in the spring and then you hear: climate change! This spring it's cold and you can't hear anyone. They're always these kinds of examples. You're talking to a final goal. I think that's what we call a sense of purpose; I've heard that before. The conclusion is that the climate on Earth is changing. It doesn't fit, but it still comes through. It's all so obvious what's going on here. You can laugh. I think it's hilarious, too. I'm laughing with you, but I'm actually crying because people are gonna have to pay for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u122	I wish that climate change didn't exist at all. Then we would do other nice things and I would not have started working on climate policy here in the House of Representatives. It's a weird story to think climate change is a big conspiracy. I'm a beta. I studied physics, and I'm trying to take science as seriously as possible. You seem to be just throwing the whole science in the trash. I take science, science, seriously. We have achieved great results in this respect. Unfortunately, that same science says we have an issue right now. I'd say follow the science, be a little rational and don't hang on to all kinds of conspiracy theories, which you may be sneaking around knowing they don't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thank you for this question. I think it's an interesting phenomenon what's happening here. The word "conspiracy" has been introduced in language by people who want to fight opposing ideas. It's very interesting. You disagree with something, so it's a conspiracy. A conspiracy means a conspiracy. That means people are sneaking together to come up with plans to roll them out all over the world. Is that what you think I believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u124	We have just had a committee debate on climate and energy. You have held a ten-minute speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u125	It's getting longer and longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u126	...in which you did exactly this. You pretended that the whole climate policy in the Netherlands is one big attempt by the European Union to cut us down. Well, I find that rather conspiracy. You can think of that as a very rational world view, but I think it strongly tends towards the idea that it is a plot of a small elite trying to cut us down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u127	Unfortunately, that elite isn't so small, otherwise it might be less successful. You may not have listened very carefully to my definition; perhaps our definitions are different. But sneaking around? In the committee debate, I have just outlined how open this is going to be. The G7 meeting last weekend spoke very openly about this. The European Union is working on the Green Deal by Frans Timmermans, which goes far beyond the national legislation we already have. So I don't think this is some kind of secret arrangement we can't see. No, that just happens in public. People are talking about this. This is what we are talking about. I'm just sketching out what's going on. So there's no conspiracy at all. At least not if you have a pure definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u128	The change society needs to go through in order to cope with climate change is immense, very large. It's going to affect a lot of aspects of our lives. So we're going to live in well-insulated, comfortable houses. I live in one myself; I don't pay any more energy bills. We go from A to B in a different way, with electric subcars, with public transport that works better and is cheaper. That's all gonna happen. That can be done in an honest way, which I stand for and what the Labour Party stands for, or it can be done unfairly. I repeat what I said earlier: we need to talk here about how we are going to cope with climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u129	Are you going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u130	Yeah, I'm doing that now. I have two questions. We find each other in the fact that we have to do it fairly and that we should not just give the bill to people who may not be able to pay it. But the question is whether it's necessary. You seem to say there's no need. That is why I have two questions for you: how many people have died of climate change every year in recent years? My second question is about migratory flows: how many people flee the world because of rising temperatures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u131	I'm about to answer the two questions. As far as the first part is concerned, I wonder whether Mr Bontenbal would describe it as a conspiracy what you have just said about people going to sub-cars and that sort of thing. These are things that are discussed at the G7. You can also read it in the report. Then there are the two questions. Remind me what your first question was. I'm sorry, I've lost my touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u132	Whether all this policy is needed and how many people are dying from climate change. And how many refugees are the result of climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u133	I do not know the exact figures, of course, but I have seen a report that has fallen sharply over the past few decades. The use of natural fuels, through the expansion of our medical capacity, which is always fully dependent on it, has reduced this. We should be very happy about that. As far as those climate refugees are concerned, I think this is a story that is always a little bit of a hairy. I don't believe that. I do not believe that there are many people who, because it gets dryer or wetter or warmer or colder somewhere, all move to the Netherlands. I believe they're coming here for our social security climate. This is very clear from the motivations that people themselves give.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u134	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u135	So this is where we part ways. I find this totally irresponsible policy you are standing here doing. You say that you stand up for all those people in this country and that you do not want them to face unnecessary costs, while the survival of this country and this society is threatened by climate change. If you are concerned about the costs that people have to pay, then you must stand up for those people, because the problem needs to be solved. Three quarters of the Netherlands agree. So stop this despicable scaremongering and trivialize the problem, and start solving, start contributing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u136	I do not hear any further details on your previous questions, but I would also like to comment on this. I assume you'll agree with the answers I've given. With regard to saving the world and the imminent climate disaster that is coming, the figures of course do not support this. Take the Dutch sea level rise. The data will be published by RIVM. It's kept every year. It rises by about 0.19 millimeters a year. That hasn't changed in the last 120 years, despite the fact that it would have gotten a little warmer on Earth. For the whole world NASA calculates that this amounts to about 0.3 millimeters per year, so just a little faster than in the Netherlands. But still we talk about 30 centimeters per century and in the Netherlands about 19 centimeters per century. I do not see that as an immense threat to the survival of our country. I disagree with you on that. What I do see as a real danger to people is that they can't afford their power anymore and that they have to be in a cold house. I am convinced, and with me many others, that is also apparent from research reports that the Ministry itself has requested that this is a real risk. I don't hear about that. You tell me I don't stand up for those people, but I stand up for those people. I stand up for the people who have to pay for all your plans. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u137	Fine, thank you. At 5:30 p.m., we're going to listen to the answers of this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u138	The Secretary of State is doing the first term sitting because of a back problem. We'd be happy to cooperate. Some people want this debate to continue until the middle of the night, but I will not give in to that pressure. So I hope that we can do it fairly short and pointy, and that we can just be done before dinner. If everyone cooperates, we'll be outside in about 45 minutes. I call the Secretary of State. I'm just looking for his microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u139	He's not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u140	No. Could you just point the microphone a little bit at you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u141	He's really not doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u142	Oh, that's a problem. I'm gonna go get some advice. How do I turn on the State Secretary's microphone? Man, man, man, that's how it's gonna be night work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u143	I could just do it with my voice, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u144	Yeah, well, you're gonna have to yell. They're looking for help. You're messing up the whole organization. I'm getting apps from the Registry now. The Secretary of State has to press a button himself, the Griffin tells me through the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u145	Oh, I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u146	Testing one, two, three. We can't do it without a microphone. It can't be because of the stenography. Then do it in writing, Mr Kops says. Or maybe through the app? Can we quickly create a group app?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u147	We need to ask Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr Van Doorn van de Griffie announced through the app that he was going to make his appearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u149	You just pulled the plug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u150	I didn't mean it personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u151	We've been expelled twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u152	Yeah, exactly. You're already a missionary, so I can't pull the plug. It's time we left this building. That's kind of the lesson we can learn, I guess. That security of supply doesn't work, does it? I'm suspending for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr Van Doorn only has to walk in or things are suddenly going to be a bit of a mess! I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u154	It is indeed like magnetism; Mr Van Raan is right. Thank you, Mr President. May I begin by congratulating Mr Idsinga and Mr Bontenbal on their maiden speech? When I listen to Mr Bontenball, I think I can almost get to the CDA. That is not the case, but social liberals and Christian Democrats seem to have a lot in common. That's what I've seen here before. In Mr Idsinga's story I found the idea of uplifting very beautiful from the school he described. It's very appealing to me. I come from a simple environment myself and my great-grandfather couldn't write and couldn't read. I am therefore very pleased with this upliftment. It's very important to my party, as it is to your party. So they were both wonderful stories. Thank you for that. Now I'm going back to a much lower-by-the-ground case, this law. First, I want to say a few words about the purpose of the law. Many questions have been asked and many comments have been made. I think I can offer some light in the darkness, because in my view the goal has also been slightly changed after the Climate Agreement has been concluded. The second part of my speech will be about the price path. That's most of it, because most of the questions have been asked about it. Then I come to questions about the international part I love, and then I have some other questions. I'm gonna go into the purpose of the law first. Someone just did that and I'm going to do it again anyway, because it helps to think about why this law first knew and made a certain price path, and what it has become. Then maybe I can take the big secret around Frontier Economics right away. Mr Jansen is not in the Chamber right now, but I'm sure he'll hear about it. I'm gonna go into how it started first. It started out as a CO price for the electricity sector and it was really meant to reduce CO emissions, as Mr Thijssen and Mr Snels said. But the reality is, of course, that we already have an instrument for this. I'm a neat economist, raised with the Tinbergen rule: you don't need two instruments for one purpose. That instrument is called the ETS price. That is actually the right instrument, because you are doing it together, if you think this is important. You can, of course, differ on the objective; Mr Kops, for example, thinks differently. But if you think this is important, it's the best cure, because it won't leak out. There's no question about that. When the Climate Agreement was negotiated, I think it was in 2019, before I became Secretary of State, it was noted in Frontier Economics' report that if you put that price path too close to the ETS prices or beyond, the following happens. Mr Bontenbal said he worked in the energy sector, so he knows much better than I do. But I'm just gonna tell you what happened. It's really simple. Because we have a lot of interconnection and we have a lot of energy connections, especially with Germany, electricity production in the Netherlands is no longer profitable at some point and is being taken over by more dirty electricity production from Germany. And that wasn't supposed to happen, was it? My good friend Kees Vendrik talked about this at the power table. Then a new price path was set. That price path now lies in the fact that it no longer works as a caustic measure to reduce CO, because that's where you have the ETS for....................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that's where the battle was made. That is what Mr Snels asked, and I think that was the reasoning. That path must of course be laid down in such a way that it does something, in the sense that it gives an incentive, an incentive, to make that investment. At the same time, it should not be above the ETS price, because then you will have that problem with Frontier Economics' security of supply. In my opinion, this is essentially the economic story. Then something happened after 2019, because that ETS price has skyrocketed. Yeah, it's gotten a lot higher. Now everyone says: yes, that price path is very low. That's right, that's right. But I have also been Director General of Energy for fourteen months in 2010. And I can tell you: there is nothing going back and forth and there is nothing more volatile than energy prices, and of course there is also the CO price. May I remind everyone that the ETS price was €16 at the start of the corona crisis? It's about 50 bucks now. So that goes back and forth. So if you're going to be too close to that actual ETS price with that price path, you're going to run those security of supply risks again. So that's why this path was chosen. Is this path going to be blissful? To all those who asked, including Mr Thijssen and Mr Van Weyenberg, I say no. But it is about what we thought in 2019 should be the right path. I'll come back later on to the adaptation of this path. I'm gonna do that in the next block. But this is the reasoning. I myself dislike... Mr Bontenbal said something about working together in his speech. Mrs Leijten spoke very well. I myself very much hate that chopping between the Chamber and the Government about the question of who the problem is that something went wrong. Last year the Chamber was very kind to me, while I submitted a mega-tax plan which also contained parts of the Chamber that hated very much. We have dealt with this very carefully. We have said this fifteen times, but we have treated it neatly afterwards. After that, it has been said: next year we should not do that anymore; send a letter about that. The same goes for the other way around. I am going to say once that it has not been my fault that this has been there for so long. Then I'll stop talking about it. 'Cause that's how it works sometimes. I think this is because of corona and because of the closing of the Chamber, stay long. No one meant it like that. It would have been better if this had been treated faster. So I would say that this is the reasoning behind the law as it is now. And then I say to Mr Van Raan, whom I have come across many times in the debates in this Chamber and also in the election campaign. We are a kind of travelling circus File Letter-Van Raan or Van Raan-Vijl letter; that is more honest: we always agree on the goals. We are always completely different about the method for this. The CO effect of this measure, if you put it into a model, is of course zero, because it is below the price. You don't have to be a big economist for that. But of course it's not structurally zero. If you think a little more deeply about it, this law is meant to ensure that there is investment security. You know the CO price and thus give a structural boost to the sustainability of electricity production. Of course, it's just not in the model. How do you model? You can't model that because the real price is higher. But then it does have effect. That's just not what you're measuring right now. That would be my answer to that point. Which brings me to the price path itself. A lot of questions have been asked about the price path and linked to it the aims of the law, among others by Mr Grinwis. He asked: how valid is the argument "security of supply"? The answer is, I think, that with the current ETS price you could have a higher price path without compromising security of supply. Is that wise? Well, I don't think that right now because of the volatility in the price. I just said something about that. I am going to say a few words about the adaptation, about the evaluation and so on, including the input of Mr Grinwis and the amendment he has tabled. I would therefore say that a higher price path would not have a direct effect on security of supply. But I don't think it's wise to change the price path now, because you don't know what the ETS price is going to do. That might tell us something about the timing of the evaluation. I'll get back to you on that. That is another reason why, although I listened to him with interest, I do not fully understand Mr Thijssen if he is in favour of creating this opportunity every year. The idea of those five years is precisely that you give the industry some certainty about the price it has to charge if it wants to invest. And then a year is very short. It's not because I want to be friendly to industry, but because this is the issue. Let me finish this. Maybe that's the handiest thing to do. Mr Thijssen asked me: let us say that the five-year period, which Mr Thijssen thinks is far too long, should be shortened, but which I say may be sensible now. Do you run big risks towards the sector? Do you get all kinds of claims on your pants? Of course, I'm not talking about the claims the sector makes. That is not the issue for the cabinet, and that is not your concern, I say to Mr Thijssen. The five-year period is not in the law, the price path itself is, but the adjustment is not. The deadline is set in the explanatory memorandum. We believe that this is reasonably safe for any other political agreement. Let me put it more accurately, neatly or more clearly: if a new coalition were to say that it would like to have it shorter, I think that would be theoretically possible. I don't expect claims to be very successful there. Then the question is, why don't you do it now? I am not doing this now because this bill represents about the political balance of what we can now achieve. I'm not completely deaf to what's going on here in this room. I have listened very carefully and I think that this reflects about the political balance of what I can achieve. Even if you think all of this is bullshit and you don't think it's gonna work right now, it could still be an important law. But I see someone who wants to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u155	Very briefly. Apart from the deadlines, this also applies, of course, if you decide to go to a different price path. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction, but my position would be as follows. At the closure of coal power stations, you can still say it's some kind of expropriation. We have all kinds of guarantees and buyouts for that. But this is a tax measure and you can adjust tax rates. As far as I am concerned, there is a primacy of politics to change this price path too, regardless of the text in the pleading. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u156	It makes a lot of sense: "it's a tax measure." I think Mr Thijssen is referring above all to the fact that, if you write in the explanatory statement something about your intention, namely that five-year adjustment, business can then refer to that intention: you do not stick to your own intention. I said what I said in this Chamber. I explained the law. I interpret the law the way I just interpreted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u157	I interpret that as: an earlier adaptation of the path than in five years' time can if that is just a political choice. There can just be another opinion, moving insight, other European goals. There could be all kinds of different arguments for it. It's up to politics to do that. In this sense, no rights can be derived from what is said here because it is a tax. And tax rates can be raised and reduced every year. The text in the pleading does not affect the budgetary rights of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u158	Yeah, that's what I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u159	I have two questions. This is an important point for legal history. It was an agreement in the climate agreement. So it was an agreement that actually had no legal force at all. After all, these agreements under the Climate Agreement had to be laid down in legislation. It is not for nothing that this five-year period did not pass into a legal article. The explanatory memorandum refers to the Climate Agreement, a kind of social agreement without legal validity. It is not in an article of law, but as an explanation in the explanatory memorandum. That gives the next Cabinets plenty of room to adjust the price path. This is important for the history of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr President, you asked me to be concise. This seems to me to be a good summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u161	Then there is the second question. The Secretary of State indicated that he would be returning shortly to adjustments and evaluation deadlines. I also said something about this volatility in my own term. We actually need new sums based on the changing context. Can the Secretary of State indicate how we should deal with these new sums, both the security of supply and the expectations for the price path?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u162	I intended to say something about that, but at the same time as that other point, if Mr Snels will allow me to do so. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me the same question in a slightly different way. He said: if more ambitious climate policies are pursued, can you confirm that the electricity sector is not excluded? That's exactly the same point. The answer is: yes, the electricity sector is not excluded. That makes sense, given my previous answer. Mr Bontenbal asked whether the bill would lead to more imports of electricity. Yeah, you can. In my introduction, I said that's possible, if you don't set that price path right. That's why you can adjust it down if things really go wrong with those ETS prices. Then you can adjust that delivery down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u163	I'm gonna be stuck with an uncomfortable feeling anyway. There are two tracks: either he does something or he does nothing. In one case, there is import of electricity. As a CDA group, we want to focus primarily on climate policy from a European point of view. We want to do things that affect the climate. I keep having some kind of discomfort with that. Is it effective? At the same time, I also think it can provide that certainty. It's an agreement from the Climate Agreement. Do you understand any of the inconvenience I have with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u164	Shall I try again to help Mr Bontenball? I understand this, but I don't think it's right. I'm gonna try one more time. Maybe I just went too fast. It is often the case that you want to stabilise a market by putting a minimum price on the market. Then it doesn't have a direct effect. That minimum price doesn't bite. The name says it all: it's a minimum price. You do not aim to break that minimum price, because that is why it is a minimum price. What you're trying to do with a minimum price is the second goal of the law. The first objective is: put a minimum price on the market, but that is not a real goal. The derived policy goal is that this gives you investment security: at that and that CO price I am always sure that I can make a certain investment profitable. That's what the law does. No more and no less. The law has then built in that you can very carefully increase the price path if you get very far away from it, so that that minimum price has no meaning at all. Some people in this Chamber are saying that, in his amendment, Van Raan, do so now. I say be careful with that, because that price is so volatile. That aspect is in there, but I believe that this is not easy. No, it's a law that doesn't bite right now, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't contribute to the climate goals. That remains a difficult twist in the head. I've had to think about it myself. But this is what it is. This is the wisdom that was at the power table back then. There was a report from Frontier Economics that said if you throw in a caustic price, that means you're compromising security of supply. It is a typical economic situation, namely a trade-off between investment and security of supply. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thanks to the Secretary of State. It's a clear story. But what is the Secretary of State's understanding and ambition of the most effective price that does not yet bite so hard that it hurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u166	If you follow the reasoning... If you would now create a new climate table, the answer is to Mr Grinwis who was there and I wasn't, but that doesn't matter that a margin of 40% was chosen at the time. We're way below that now. And then it started slowly. It was 60% of the ETS price, and that was slowly rising. If you make that sum now, you get a higher price path. But I say that is a dangerous reasoning. Be careful with that. I say this a little bit because I learned from experience when I was working in the energy sector myself. I feel much more for the route that Mr Grinwis himself indicates, namely to evaluate faster than after five years. Then we know a lot more. I'm gonna say so much more about it. The most important movement here is of course international. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a question that should be asked when you are debating with members of the Finance Committee: it first yielded 620 million, now the proceeds are 0, how is that budget processed? I'm always gonna read to you, to be exact. Mr Snels knows that too. The government agreement was based on a yield of 300 million in 2021 and a structural yield of 620 million euros. The re-evaluation of the measure shows that there is no longer a return and that is due to another system in the pricing setting. The loss within the cabinet period is therefore EUR 300 million. According to the budgetary rules, this loss had to be covered within the income framework with a burden increase elsewhere within this cabinet period. It's covered from the package. We wouldn't use the word anymore, but I'm going to do it again anyway. The remainder is 64 million euros. That leaves 234 million out of dividend tax. That is covered within the Climate Agreement package. The cabinet has also decided to use the 300 million outside the cabinet period in a different way within the Climate Agreement package. In other words, the climate agreement has simply been made more expensive after the cabinet period. I'm just translating it for everyone. Then we'll understand each other again. That's it. That was a short cut, a finance official would say. Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to the amendments later. Then I'm gonna talk about those price paths and the tests. I wanted to say something about the international part. Mr Idsinga specifically asked for this. Mr Van Raan asked the question: are we actually the frontrunner there; what are we doing there? Let me first say something about the international part in a somewhat larger context. There is an interesting development in the world at the moment, and that is that there is a sudden improvement in cooperation in a number of areas where years have not worked well. I said something about this this morning in the debate I had with Mr Snels on Ecofin. Then it was about tax avoidance. I think that is an incredibly beneficial development that is taking place there. I noted a few weeks ago, as I said in the debate this morning, that there is almost universal support for this. Room-wide support for that line, that's quite a lot. You actually see the same thing in climate policy. So I expect from the Timmermans package, which is due to come in July, in the area of ETS reserves, the abundance of ETS rights, and some other positive effects. That could mean that I will come back to that price path later that this package will really have a substantial impact on those ETS prices and thus on CO emissions. That would be very good news. This is also in line with Europe's higher ambition. What have we, as the Netherlands, done ourselves? Yeah, we talked to our neighbors. That is what my predecessor has done, so I quote what Mr Snel has done quickly. He has been in contact with France and Germany in terms of that minimum CO price. It turned out there was no support. In particular, the Germans preferred to achieve their CO targets by closing dirty power stations and not for this system. We have, of course, done so in part afterwards. As far as broader CO pricing is concerned, my predecessor, as the Chamber knows, has taken many initiatives, including on air traffic tax. This was one of the few times when I totally disagreed with Mr Van Raan. That's what we've been doing since the beginning. I just don't agree that the flight tax would be a little thing. Yes, the price is a small thing, but the fact that those tickets are taxed and that we started internalizing is not a small thing and I think it's important. This also applies by the way to this minimum CO price. You've got another instrument in your bag. There is a lot going on internationally, I say to Mr Idsinga. But honesty requires saying: we have not received enthusiastic support for the idea of a minimum CO2 price. Other countries have opted for other instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u167	Before the viewers are left in total confusion that we do not agree on the principle that you internalise costs, I would point out that we do agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u168	There were a lot of calls coming in, so that's settled. Mr. Idsinga for his maiden interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Secretary of State tell me what has been done by predecessors and what the status quo is in the international field. But my question specifically saw the following: what are you going to do to get this back on the agenda for the future? It's a little more forward-looking than the status quo and what happened in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u170	The answer is actually the same as the answer I always give when it comes to tax avoidance: I think that the Netherlands has been a country for too long. That wasn't part of the fee, by the way. If you ask me what role the Netherlands should take there, I think the Netherlands should take the role of driver and frontrunner. In other words, precisely because we are relatively small between those large countries, we must try to achieve as much cooperation as possible. I would say that if the Timmermans package is there, then we should talk about it again. You will do this more with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs than with me. The cabinet will then have to discuss how the cabinet, or the new cabinet afterwards, can give as much effect as possible to this driving role in Europe. We will then find ourselves in a camp where, I think, we feel well at home, namely Sweden and Denmark. We will not end up in the corner of Poland and Hungary, which, of course, are constantly on the brakes here. So that would be my answer to it. It has to be active. That could be anything. That could be this subject, the minimum price, but it could also be the excise duty on kerosene. It's all those things you'd better take care of internationally and at European level. That would be my answer to Mr Idsinga. Which brings me to the other block. Then I go back to the amendments and then I come back to the price path and the summing up that goes with it. Mr Idsinga asked: can you confirm that you are reluctant to tax other implementing organisations? I very much agree with him. No, we're not supposed to create an IRS next to the IRS. However, the Chamber also knows about the problems that the Tax Office has, so I am very pleased Mr Idsinga said this in his contribution "Nea can and will do this." As you know, I am also looking at other practitioners on other fiscal issues, because we will have to do so if we want to make progress. Mr Idsinga asked: does the proposal create additional administrative burdens for companies? That is not the case if there is no levy. Then there are no additional reporting obligations. If there is a levy, the charges are limited. The reporting obligations are in line with those of the EU ETS. I could have just done this on the international block, or maybe I should have, but let me do it here. Mr Grinwis asked about the CO2 border levy. In the Brussels thief language this is: CBAM, carbon border adjustment mechanism. The cabinet is looking forward to the Commission's proposals there. They're in a package published next month. This is actually a very simple thing. It's actually crazy to be against this, because if you're pursuing CO2 policy, you'd rather not have other countries, territories or continents that aren't doing so undermining those that are freeriding on your CO2 policy. That can never be the intention. That's why there's this CBAM. I understand that the great opponents, the US, now understand this too. They want to work with us to get into the same area of CO2 emissions reduction. Then we're in the ideal situation. Although, it is not the ideal situation, because there is another very large country that you would prefer to join. A proposal from the Commission will be presented this summer. Then that has to be discussed again. That will again be with another member of the cabinet. Mr President, that brings me to the amendments. On the basis of the amendments, I shall deal equally with the questions on prices, etc. The first amendment I have in front of me is that of Mr Grinwis in point No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u171	That might be co-signed by Mr Van Weyenberg and that would mean that it would be given a new number, but for the time being we are talking about item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u172	I'll call it number 10, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u173	Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u174	That amendment actually provides for an early evaluation period. That's the five years, but not the five years that's in it. It is another five years, i.e. "review over five years with a focus on the development of European climate policy." I actually think it's just a sensible amendment. I'll explain why. There's so much European happening that you need to see if this law in three years' time actually... In my view, that was about Mr Grinwis' reasoning. It may be that in three years' time my successor will be sitting here and saying: that File letter saw it really wrong, because that ETS price is now so skyhigh that we can quietly go up with that price path. It may also be that File Letter was right and that ETS price has collapsed again, because something has happened in the world. You can do that, too. It's, I think, good not to wait five years for that. I agree with that and therefore give the amendment judgement Chamber. Mr. Chairman. All those Members of your Chamber who have asked me whether I can start counting on what should be the right price path now, I can say that I will take that into account in this shorter evaluation. In other words, as Mr Grinwis and the other members of the Chamber know, it will take a while before all this is properly calculated and properly written down. You also have to see what happens to national policies of all these European measures. Then, I think, you can make a good new sum of that price path. You'll know a little more, and that'll give you a little more certainty. I would like to say the following to all those who have argued in favour of this. Mr Snels even explicitly asked for a commitment. If I may read it in such a way that, in the context of this more rapid evaluation of the measures in question, PBL et cetera is asked to make a new calculation of the price path in order to do so, I am happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u175	Mr. Grinwis, the amendment is Chamber of Judgement, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u176	It's more like it's a wake-up call. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that, but I would like to ask Mr Snels in his first question whether 'within three years' is the wisest. Is that the fastest number possible or is it enough that we say "after two years"? I mean, after two full years of evaluation with data. Or else the Secretary of State can undertake: to make an evaluation of European developments as quickly as reasonably possible. I understand that Mr Snels, like all of us, feels a little impatience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u177	I find this a little complicated. I have an amendment here about going from five to three years. Mr Grinwis asks: if it could and should be done faster, can it be done faster and do you? That is always possible, but this amendment changes the law from five to three years, not to two years. Otherwise it's gonna get complicated, I guess. This is more for the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate. If it makes any sense... But Mr Grinwis's reasoning was's' and that was, in my view, a logical reasoning 'to let that European part tremble out for a while'. And I can't completely judge when that's quivered and you can make a good price path.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u178	Then Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u179	Let me get this straight. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr Grinwis' amendment, but I do have two questions. My first question is whether Mr Grinwis' amendment is indeed helping to bring forward the evaluation. Because by letter of amendment, the date of entry into force of the law has also been abandoned, so we are still in the original period. So it really helps? Then there is my second point. I would appreciate it if there would be a commitment. With Mr Grinwis' amendment, it is in principle three years, but perhaps European developments, developments in Germany, still give reason to make the sums quicker and to make the evaluation, in order to be able to act more quickly. Of course, that depends on what happens abroad and Europe, but if something happens, we could do it a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u180	I seem to have been unclear, because this is what I was just trying to say. Apparently, I used the wrong words. I also heard someone in my left ear shaking out? questions. So I'm gonna make myself clearer. We change "five years" to "three years." If there is a reason, if it is possible, and if it is necessary, for example, because it is going to be very quickly in Europe, to do it faster, I think it would be wise if the next Secretary of State again, which will then be the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, I think it would also be quicker. I was just trying to stick to the fact that the amendment says 'three years' and not 'two years'. 'Cause otherwise it's gonna be a blurry whole. That was my point. "An unclear whole" I mean, I say to Mrs Leijten, through you, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. It will not be surprising that, in the light of what I have said, I do not recommend Mr Van Raan's amendment to increase the price path. Mr Jansen is still not here, but if I were to raise that, he would suddenly have a point. I would like to avoid that, and secondly, there is also a substantive argument behind my opinion, namely that this type of price path could jeopardise security of supply. I wouldn't want that, so I have to discourage the amendment. The same applies to the second amendment, which builds on it. This would not only regulate a rate of €105, but also €10 afterwards. I would add that I do not rule out the possibility that, after such an evaluation, the price paths might eventually be closer to that than they are now. I'm not afraid to say that. That brings me to Mr Thijssen's amendment. I'd like to advise against that, too. It is not in the spirit of this law to say now that you can adjust the price path annually. We had a brief debate on this. The reasoning here is that the industrial companies need time to adapt and that you want to offer investment security. Then a year really is a very short term. I have said before: if the informant were to ask me what I think about the fact that there are parties who want to reduce it to one year, I hope I will be consistent and say that I think it is too short. Political parties will, of course, be free to find something else about this, because it is not in the law. But I'd like to warn you about it, because you're destroying the spirit of the agreements. You pull the rug out with a period of a year, because that's really very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u181	There is, of course, a goal in the Climate Agreement to provide security of supply to the companies that make our energy. But there is also a goal to achieve the CO reduction. I don't think there are any energy companies that are going to invest in fossil installations anymore, because then you really don't know what's going on in the world. So I think it's just to make sure those companies can make a little more profit. And I'm not here for these companies to make more profit. So I do not see the problem of investment security. There will be no more investments in fossil installations. In my view, therefore, investment security is not an argument. In my opinion, we can go to doctors very precisely, every year: how high can we make the minimum price to reduce CO2 pollution as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u182	I think, with all due respect to Mr Thijssen... It's nice that we can have this discussion. I don't think the reasoning is right. I do agree with him that is not a reasoning; that is a fact, I think that most energy companies will not invest in fossil power stations, at least not in the Netherlands. That seems obvious to me. But the return that someone can get, the kind of plant you set up, is, of course, affected by the price path you know for the coming years. The depth and extent of your investment is affected by that. It's not a 1-0 decision, but this is just an investment decision, where the return is determined by the price in the future and the amount of that stuff you sell in the future. I insist that a longer term will help to ensure security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u183	I'm sure that will help, but my proposal also helps to reduce CO pollution. I think that's the trade-off we make differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u184	Yes. I see this instrument, in particular, to promote long-term investment security in renewable energy generation, and we also agree on this objective and not so much on CO2 savings now, because that is what we have the ETS for. Then we'll go in a circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u185	And we don't want to go in circles. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr President, I will do a square interruption. Mr Thijssen asked about security of supply and the climate. I read a second reason to be careful with a national price higher than ETS in electricity production, namely that the global climate was affected by the opening of German lignite. I understand the investment argument. But in the choice now made with the Climate Agreement, this was a point that also resonated with me, namely that it did not help the global climate. That is why I think it is important to keep an eye on this, even if we are going to tighten up. I read it in such a way that unless Germany, for example, would do a great deal more than Europe, I cannot imagine that Mr Vendrik, if we asked him again, would come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u187	I should have mentioned this. Mr Van Weyenberg is right. This is a correct argument, I think. There were two arguments if you don't set that path right. The first is that you push electricity production across the border, putting security of supply at risk. For all brightness: in peak situations, not direct, not structural. The second argument is that there can be dirty, more CO-intensive energy production in other countries and thus the total production of CO can even increase. Of course that's correct. I did it a little loosely and I shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u188	Very briefly. On the one hand, we have five years and on the other hand we have the Labour Party's proposal for one year. It seems reasonable, in itself, especially if we go a little further into the energy transition and that consideration will be different, for example because the international playing field is changing, to include this point explicitly in the evaluation. See if those five years are indeed the most reasonable period of time in which we provide both security of investment and security of supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u189	In my view, this is exactly what the evaluation is about. The short answer to this is yes. The slightly longer answer to this is: if we start evaluating, we look at the total law and look at this as well. I think that's the more precise answer. I see people looking worried if we start screwing too much on those five years now. That's why I take the evaluation side, because I think that gives people more peace and quiet. That's actually the simple answer to this. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u190	Thank you for your conciseness. Mr. Idsinga? Or can it be in his term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u191	It can be very short. I had asked a question about the possible state aid debate. It may be me, but I don't remember getting the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u192	That is not Mr Idsinga's fault, but it is my fault. Now you'll also see that I've removed the leaf, because this is something I don't remember. I did file it, so it's in this folder. But I'm looking now. I'll be right back. Are there any other people with questions? Then I can search at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u193	No, don't provoke any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u194	Okay, I'll get back to you in the second term. Oh, I see Mr. Janssen. The answer's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u195	We say you're suddenly getting a hunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u196	No, no, Mr. Janssen is getting a hunch, I hope. Mr Idsinga asked for an explanation of the state aid rules. The CO-minimum price applies only to electricity generation and not to other emissions in the EU ETS. On the basis of the decision-making practice of the European Commission, the Cabinet concludes that this limitation to electricity generation does not constitute State aid. I wanted to know exactly because I didn't remember this. To give you an example, the United Kingdom has had this type of charge since 2013 and has not run into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u197	I see Mr Idsinga looking happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u198	Moderately satisfied, I see, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u199	If even Mrs Leijten does not have a second-term motion, we do not have to do a second-term, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u200	That's entrapment, this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u201	Do you, Mr. Van Raan? Do you have a contribution? You don't have to. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u202	Mr President, I very much appreciate your attempt to keep it all short and concise. I will have to do the same in this case. I congratulate the maiden speakers on their wonderful stories. 1 minute 50 is actually too short to go into all that, but I'm sure I will. I've also discovered that besides something like a maiden speech, there's something like a reception from a maiden speech that you hear. Unfortunately, Mr Jansen is not here, so I will keep my comments on that, because I would have liked to have responded to him. But unfortunately he's not here, and I think it's silly to go into that. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, this kind of law is the best proof of the fact that the economy is too important to leave to economists. Mr Vijlbrief has explained this flawlessly here. I have three motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the PBL indicates that a uniform CO levy is the most advantageous;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps to prepare for the arrival of a uniform CO levy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to set the minimum prices for CO emissions from electricity generation well below market prices, thus preventing the imposition of a CO levy in practice;]] [[Speaks:]] [[that this is contrary to Article 4 of the Paris Climate Agreement, which requires that as much as possible be done as quickly as possible, in accordance with best available scientific knowledge, in order to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[that the cabinet is also acting in opposition to the importance of broad prosperity later,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court of Auditors notes that there has been a "wild growth" in tax regimes where "the objectives are vague, the justification is flawed, the result is unclear and evaluations are rare";]] [[noting that the Van Raan motion adopted seeks to extend the scope of the Periodic Review Scheme to include tax regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to submit to an analysis pursuant to Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35216-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35216-15]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35216-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u204	Very good. I call Mr Bontenbal of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to be brief; I've said enough. I thought it was a nice debate, which was actually held except for a few exceptions. I really like being able to talk about the content of a legislative proposal and really get substantive answers. I'm happy about this. I'm also a little tired and hope to get a bite to eat soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u206	Mrs Leijten van de SP has waived her speaking time. Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to Mr Idsinga for his wonderful maiden speech. I enjoyed it. Congratulations. I brought you one motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rapidly rising ETS price increases the need for a CO-frontier tax by the day in order to protect European companies from false competition;]] [[noting that the European Parliament has recently voted in favour of a proposal for a CO-frontier tax to be introduced in 2023;]] [[Whereas the arrival of a border levy allows the possibility of stopping the free distribution of allowances;]] [[calls on the Government to work in Brussels to introduce a fair and effective European CO-border tax as soon as possible and thereby to end the free distribution of allowances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Van Weyenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35216-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u208	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his proper response. I agree with Mr Bontenbal. It is indeed nice to be able to talk about the content of legislation, although this is a law that we thought in 2017 "hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh.hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Nevertheless, it was and is an important signal that we want to price CO and greenhouse gases in such a way that you do not just deal with them, in the sense of: it does not matter. We are talking about an earth that we find precious and for which we want to make an effort. It is good that European climate policy is finally going to be as effective as we all hoped, even in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u209	Thank you. The next speaker will be Mr Snels, but we have been deprived of him, I understand. I call Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. Of course, we're not gonna agree. We are and will remain against this law, but I must admit that the answer was clear. Mr. Chairman. Now that I have said so kindly, I expect to judge Chamber on the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to eliminate energy poverty and to this end substantially reduce the energy bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to liberate the Netherlands from the EU Emissions Trading System,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35216-18]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35216-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u212	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Bontenbal and Mr Idsinga on their maiden speech. One was after me and the other I had forgotten to my great shame and regret. But it was beautiful. Mr Bontenbal spoke of hope. I always find the word 'optimism' for social liberals to be a kind of core value, so here again I see a lot of interfaces. I look forward to working together. With Mr Idsinga, I have been allowed to do so in other places before. In his example of VAT I had to remember that, if I remember correctly, the guinea pig is in the high VAT rate and the rabbit in the low, because you can eat the rabbit. Then you know that, too. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled a motion and signed an amendment which I believe will be retabled. This was once conceived by Mr Grinwis and myself as the main route to the electricity sector approach. It has become a kind of lock on the door. Other instruments are now the main route. Does that make this worthless? No. Shouldn't you overestimate it? Also. As far as I am concerned, you will have to change this price path, which is a sort of lock on the door, at some point if we are to have an even more ambitious climate policy, which my group is very much in favour of. But even then, the real big tonne reduction will have to come from other measures and this will be some kind of extra lock on the door. It's not worthless, but it's certainly not the only thing we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u214	Thank you. Then there is Mr Thijssen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a very nice piece of law, because the polluter is indeed going to have to pay. The knife cuts both ways. This ensures fair and effective policies. It is clear from my amendment and my input that I had designed it something else, in order to make it even more effective and honest. I think it is very important that this cabinet does not rule over its grave and that the next cabinet really has its hands free. The Secretary of State has said a few things about this, namely that there is a legal space, but I have really heard other signals. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State if he can explain in a letter of Parliament that there is room for manoeuvre, preferably before the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u216	Fine. Then Mr Idsinga of the VVD Group. He's quitting his speaking time. The last participant, Mr. Jansen, has slipped away. I'm gonna suspend for two minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u217	The Secretary of State has the floor and we will soon end it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u218	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan has the motion in part No. 14 on a uniform CO levy. I understand the reasoning behind that, but I have to dissuade him. By doing it in this way "to prepare for the advent of a uniform CO-tax" the government is unable to do anything with it. Mr Van Raan is theoretically right, I thought that Mr Snels also said in his term that a uniform tax is the very best. We are trying to work on this in as many ways as possible, namely by taxing as many sectors as possible. I therefore advise against the motion in this form. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; those on No 16; "Considering that the General Court finds that there is a proliferation of tax regimes," this motion calls for a review of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. That's what happened. Mr Van Raan can read that in the explanatory statement. So I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u219	What do you mean by "the motion in part No. 15 is gone"? 'Cause we just do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u220	I don't have that motion. Is that a speech-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u221	It's also a speech-expression. Yeah, that's right, so we can let him go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u222	Yeah, sharp. Mr Grinwis asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. 17 to work in Brussels to introduce an effective CO levy as soon as possible and to end the free distribution of allowances at the same time. I am happy to give this motion judgment Chamber, because the government intends to do so. Then there is the motion on energy poverty in part No. 18, which I've been thinking about for the longest time. In this form, I advise against the motion. Eliminating energy poverty is a wonderful goal, but I can't promise it now, and so I can't give a ruling Chamber either. Six months ago I had a debate with Mrs Leijten, which was not about energy taxes but about car taxes. That is exactly when we had this discussion with each other. I think you were there too, as I say to Mr Kops. However, I agree that in climate policy and energy policy you should try to keep an eye on the people with a small grant. In other words, you can be sure that if I am involved in the formation in one way or another, I will always pay attention to that. I have to dissuade him in this form, but I recognize and acknowledge the point. The last motion, in part No. 19, there's no chance of a judgment room. You can't be freed from anything... You can be liberated from something if you wish, but we do not want to be liberated, I say to Mr Kops, from the EU Emissions Trading System, because that is our most important CO instrument. I owe Mr Thijssen an answer. He asked for a letter on the issue of the legal side of those five years. I just had a little talk about that. That's a serious question. My associates say that a letter has no added value. My spoken word here counts and a letter has no legal value anymore. If you were to receive a letter, you will receive approximately the stenogram of this meeting, but in the form of a proper letter. I'd like to send it to you, but it doesn't have any extra value. It is also a wonderful goal to avoid more work for the officials, so I would not want to do that. I ask you to rely on the spoken word. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mr Thijssen, short, rounding, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u224	Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u225	That's short and pointy. So much for dealing with what Mr Idsinga calls "an exciting tax law." I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence and for answering the very few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-9.u226	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, on the amendments and on the motions for resolutions. I'm gonna suspend until 7:45 and then we're gonna talk about the Education and Vocational Education Act.
