ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science. Today we are doing the first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I agree with the Members: six questions and/or first-term comments. Mr Beertema of the PVV is already ready. I'll give him the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the previous budget, I have already given a great deal of thought to the failing education policy of these two ministers. They remember it well and they look back on it with pleasure, I see. As in the sectors of immigration, agriculture, housing, care and supplements, education after ten years of Rutte is also in a state of permanent crisis. In the previous budget, I have also said goodbye to these ministers, but they are not to be burned away, it seems. Demissionary as they are, they've long exceeded their expiration date. They're not fresh anymore, to say it euphemistically, and we can't really expect anything from them anymore. This budget debate and the motions that we are going to table are, in fact, a waste of time, all the more so since motions that really matter are not, after all, being carried out by these ministers or put off. Inability and unwillingness, while education has not longed for other policies before. Never before have the problems been so great and the powerlessness and powerlessness of the ministers responsible been so intolerable. Because there is a systemic crisis. And that does not seem to get through to these ministers. In the meantime, it has penetrated other parties. How could it be any different? Why do we keep talking about a systemic crisis? First of all, because no one wants to go to class anymore. Secondly, the disturbingly fast-paced madness that threatens our universities. Thirdly, the completely out of control internationalisation of higher education, facilitated by the replacement of Dutch as a language of teaching and thus as a language of culture by English. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the teacher shortage and the teacher leak. No one wants to go to class anymore, which puts even the continuity of education at risk. With art and flight work one tries to mask the problems: unauthorized for the class, shorter weeks of education, digital education, larger classes. With more salary, part of the deficit can be solved, but it is very hopeful that teachers' financial future still does not look like it, especially when we look at the last negotiated agreement for secondary education: a raise of 0.4% for teachers, while their drivers get an increase of 3.4%, a coronabonus for teachers of €800 and for drivers of €4,000. No one understands that, and that doesn't invite you to say it quietly. But the salary isn't the biggest pain point. The biggest pain is that the teaching content has long since ceased to be what it should have been. Teachers want to teach at their own discretion, as an autonomous pedagogue in an autonomous team, without being harassed by all kinds of educators, by those bread professors of new learning who always have to change everything. The tragic thing is that the sector does not learn when I see that the new boss of the VO Council, who has been appointed this week, is yet another hobby philosopher, such a hobby education innovator, who has never been in the class before. It is again a fan of personalized learning, a method that does not work scientifically demonstrably, but is based on magical thinking, on wishful thinking, on ideology mostly. Self-discovery learning is not learning, especially for the children of our constituents, who only grow and thrive when they are taken on and are given knowledge and skills in rest, structure and discipline before they get to work on it themselves. The same applies to children from the supporters of other parties, such as DENK. Stop with these unbearable innovations, take back to education as it has been successful for centuries and has shaped, emancipated and elevated many generations to the middle class. Raise, emancipate, take students to the middle class, that's what teachers want to do. Taking learners on, explaining, encouraging them to get more out of themselves than they themselves thought possible. That makes the profession the most beautiful thing there is instead of playing coach in the unrest and chaos of students that we leave to their fate in so-called study areas. But one after the other is spending modernisation on education. Think of the useless programme Education2032, which had no support and was secretly converted to Curriculum.nu. Again, these are innovations that are not based on evidence based works. The consequences of this totally irresponsible education policy... these ministers are directly responsible for this policy................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Netherlands dives down in the international polls. Unlike almost all other countries, Dutch pupils perform slightly less than they did before, with the lowest point being that 24% of 15-year-olds are functionally illiterate. I have said before that this is an embarrassing fact. In fact, it is a total disgrace that a highly developed country like the Netherlands is presumptuous to go with billions of injections of tax money to save the climate, which only allows a quarter of its children a failed life, because we are no longer able to teach everyone to read. That is something we have done excellently since the start of organised education, over the course of about 1,100 years. Reading is the basis of upliftment, of emancipation. Without reading skills, everything stops. Without reading skills, people are condemned to a difficult life in the margins. I summarized this in a tweet. I don't want to keep that from you here. The tweet reads as follows: "To strengthen equality of opportunity, you must first learn to read, restore knowledge and skills, bring structure and tranquility, say goodbye to the soft bigotry of low expectations, and evidence based works. It's not that complicated." I have said everything, but I would like to touch on some of the other points on which I would like a response from the ministers. The first point is the madness, which has been given a dominant place especially at universities in record time. For example, diversity officers at all institutions, safe spaces, the cancelling of dissident teachers and students, and the restriction of freedom of expression and of free science. Until a few months ago, we could often laugh very much at that wobble madness, but the laughing has now ended us. Censorship and self-censorship are the order of the day. There are demonstrations. Petitions are signed by dozens of professors and teachers, for example when a nice, somewhat conservative scientist like Jordan Peterson comes to give a lecture. Even hard science like biology is undermined, because the two sexes man and woman are simply denied. There's a new understanding that rationality in science is the basis of the scientific method, a white, western and masculine concept that needs to be decolonized. This wok and gender ideology leads to the end of science and leads to the beginning of new forms of magical thinking. And to think that science is the basis of our superior Western culture, which brought freedom, prosperity, well-being and wealth. The good understander sees that woke ideology is already on its way to becoming mainstream, see for example our media, but also the arrival of the last generation of young politicians in the House of Representatives, even with the old workers' party PvdA and even with the VVD and the Christian Union. They did not support my motion to oppose the so-called critical racial doctrine. My appeal is to guarantee freedom of expression and freedom of science. My question to the Minister is: what is the state of the motion adopted, in which the Chamber opposes the National Action Plan for more diversity and inclusion, with which ethnicity and migration backgrounds are recorded? It is a broad motion, in which even the VVD rightly wondered why you should register it if you should judge people by their qualities rather than by their origins. I'll have a drink of water. Mr President, would you please stop the time? Very good. Mr. Chairman. Then the english. The replacement of Dutch as a language of teaching by English made far-reaching internationalisation possible. As a result, universities are now in danger of drowning in applications for the first time. There are universities that are proud to be able to count more than half of their stock as foreign students. In total, 80,000 foreign students rely on Dutch taxpayers' money. They push our own students on the waiting lists for studies and take up 80,000 student rooms on the already scarce housing market of the student housing. See the emergency cry of the University of Amsterdam. The enormous influx of international students is no longer feasible. After years of active recruitment abroad, in most studies to abolish Dutch as an educational language to facilitate foreigners, to molest the PVV as oppressive nationalists, because she stood up for the interests of Dutch students with Dutch tax-paying parents, things are now falling apart. We're guessing: universities are asking for more money. Of course there's a solution. I have often said this: restore Dutch as a language of teaching, as prescribed by the Higher Education Act. However, the Minister has adapted it to give universities the freedom to act as they see fit. Take direction, Minister. The universities, they say, are getting in trouble because of their own irresponsible, obsessive drive to bring in foreigners before the competitor does. Restore Dutch. International students are still welcome, but then they have to take the trouble to learn our language, instead of forcing the vast majority of Dutch students to study in a foreign language. These are the problems that have plunged our education into a systemic crisis. These problems are unprecedented. For all these problems, the rulers and the directors have been deaf for years. If they had answers, those were exactly the wrong answers. Mr. Chairman. This is the state of play. To save education, it will take more than an adjustment here and there. We need a paradigm change. At least that won't bring Rutte IV into play. On the contrary, the problems under Rutte IV will deepen. Only when Rutte is gone, when Rutte is finally gone, will there be a chance of improvement. Finally, Mr President. It's a pity Mr. Van Meenen hasn't jumped up to ask me, like he's been doing for 11 years, how to do it. It says how to do it. It's just one leaf, front and back. We printed it very environmentally consciously double-sidedly. I would ask you to share this, Mr President. These are the ideas we need to think about to get our education out of the huge system crisis as we know it now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u4	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u5	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. We'll spread it among the members. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Woude. This is her maiden speech. As usual, you will not be interrupted. You will also have time to say something personal. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a budget debate at a strange time: a poor budget during a formation and with new measures that also affect education. From figures that came out of a study done during the third lockdown last week, we know that students have been hit hard, especially by loneliness. They were already suffering from it, but Corona made it worse. I'm not surprised. As alderman of Education in Delft, I have unfortunately seen the impact up close. We are pleased that the NPO funds are also being used for welfare in this respect. Meeting and knowing each other, and a short line with teachers are incredibly important for students and children. I myself, in my youth, unintentionally did some sort of field research into the quality of education. I was in four high schools in different parts of the country because of circumstances. That is not a favourable learning context, one would say. I picked and arranged the fourth school when I was 15, because I didn't like the third one. I was completely insensitive to all the opinions of adults, especially those who thought I was throwing away my future and planning all kinds of paths for me. But the fact that I passed my finals is due to relevant teachers at the fourth school. They just asked me once in a while if it was okay. Okay, let's pay extra attention. I was seen, that meant. That's all it took to get me to work. That being seen, is exactly what students often miss now. In the mass of studying now they are more often alone. Studies are massive. The student associations, sports associations and student homes are full. Are all these students gonna end up okay in the future? That's got my attention. Because this country has great ambitions for the future. We want to excel and be a top innovation country. We want to lead the way with innovations in energy, technology, ICT, robotics, medical, agriculture, water, food, quantum, astronomy. It is investment in the future if we do that research in the right direction. There are some choices to make. What social goals do we pursue? It is good to prioritise here, but universities have become more and more similar. They've widened before they've profiled themselves. This brings me to a report produced by PricewaterhouseCoopers, which recommends higher funding for higher education. A recommendation that everyone here knows, I think. But there are other recommendations in there that I haven't heard more about. A recommendation is, for example, to formulate a clearer research ambition. The strategic agenda, mission-driven innovation policy, the Science Agenda, sector plans and Europe all give a certain direction to education. They lie next to each other, but they do not produce a coherent image. What are our most important missions now? We are looking for that common perspective for the entire Dutch field of education, in collaboration with the ministries of SZW and EZK. As far as we are concerned, institutions can profil themselves, from MBO to wo. The path to the goal must be arranged by them. This is important for the future as far as we are concerned. And in our view, we need everyone, academically trained people, but certainly also a lot of professionals, from MBO and HBO, in technology, ICT, care and so on. We already have a lot of students, but education does not deliver the mix of graduates that the labour market needs in the future. The influx into MBO 4 technology is dramatic. It has already been shown that young people often opt for mbo-economic or mbo-administrative and then fail, or do not end up well. I've seen a lot of that in Delft. Half of the HBOs in Rotterdam study economics. A super study, but it's relatively real, while we don't have enough nurses and engineers. The big transitions are going to crash like this. Campaigns and information are not enough. We have read that sharper demands for efficiency at the MBO have not yet worked. And as long as universities individually continue to devise new broad bachelors to attract students for unattractive disciplines rather than working together more, we are not doing very well. Take a good look at this, was also a recommendation from PricewaterhouseCoopers. A study on macro-efficiency in education was also carried out during this period. The committee that did so indicated itself that the criteria used by the Empire for a proper integration into the labour market are not good enough. The overview we now have is fragmented by level and does not include part-time and private education. Nor do we have a sharp definition of macro-efficiency. So all these things together, we don't know enough if we're doing it right. Last year, the Minister said, in summary, that things were usually going well and that there would be consultation tables on this issue. So we would like to know what insights this has produced about a year later. As far as we are concerned, we are looking at ways of making that image clearer, from MBO to wo. Training for the future labour market is therefore important for all levels of education. But as the wo explodes, the HBO shrinks. Several administrators and teachers have told me that they are watching everyone try to get into the university, which is not always appropriate despite a VWO diploma. That's pressure. And if it doesn't go off easy, it's just really hard. That's stressful, too. When I worked in HBO, at my technical faculty there was a special side-influx coordinator for students who didn't make it to TU Delft, structurally. We got them on the ride again, but also mentally they had to recover from the failure experience. If they'd chosen the HBO right away, they wouldn't have. But that's what they're doing less and less. Let's stop glorifying the academic level. It sends the wrong signal, while there is a shortage of professionals in certain directions. Information on this should be improved. Does the Minister see the possibility of better informing about the benefits and differences between MBO, HBO and WO, so that more conscious choices can be made? I would then like to see us celebrating the differences rather than getting rid of them, because the HBO and wo are starting to look more and more alike. For this reason, we are critical of the announcement of a legislative change aimed at creating a level playing field in which HBOs are better facilitated to offer wo-training and vice versa. That's a little too fast for us. We're missing a strategic plan. Because HBO and wo wouldn't originally operate the same field at all. The idea was always that they were complementary to each other. So let the Minister first map out what the role of HBO versus wo can be, what the added value of the difference is or the agreement is, and submit that choice to us before this legislative proposal is submitted. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Then another addition to our educational landscape: internationalisation. It brings our country knowledge and brilliant students, it teaches students to work in international teams and it opens up opportunities for students to study abroad. We think that is a good thing. We want to continue on this path, provided we keep a grip on the influx. We seem to have lost that grip by now. Part of the massity I mentioned earlier is caused by these students. I'm sure you were impressed by the recent image of international students sleeping in bus booths. But we're not calculated on these numbers. We have a law ready to get more control on this in extreme cases, the Language and Accessibility Act, but it is now in the Upper House. Higher education cannot wait for this. That is why I would like to know what action is already possible. Because if we have to wait for this new law, then we are too late to settle something for the next academic year and there are students sleeping in bus booths again. I would therefore ask the Minister, in cooperation with the VSNU and the Association of Colleges, to see if there is any possibility of starting a pilot for the next academic year, in which institutions or training courses will be able to establish an emergency capacity fixus or a capacity fixus for non-EEA students. The VVD has already insisted on these matters and, according to the directors we have spoken, they are urgent. Then I would like to talk about academic freedom and security for students, teachers and scientists. They are under pressure, both nationally and internationally. First of all, I will look at the international perspective. Recently, there was a round table in which we discussed the threats from non-free countries to our science. Science without international cooperation is unthinkable. If you are a small country like the Netherlands, there are always more knowledge and opportunities outside your country than inside. That's the way it is. But some international students are restricted in their freedom by their motherland. Valuable knowledge leaks or is used in ways we do not want; for military purposes or in an unethical way, as when Uighur DNA was used in a Dutch investigation. It turns out it's hard for drivers to make judgements. Where and how do we work with other countries? A process has already begun in order to identify areas where there is an increased risk to national security. As far as I understand, there is also a broad need, on top of the publication of the VSNU on knowledge security, for a clear framework of consideration from the Empire. It is therefore a framework that helps to assess all aspects, not only safety, but also ethically. Because you cannot simply classify the threats and objections by subject area, country or goal of cooperation; that is always in relation to each other. Cooperation with China does not necessarily always have to be an objection. I want to prevent us from being too naive about what we were indeed going through to writing off entire countries. It doesn't serve science either. I understand that in January 2022 the Court will be informed about the progress of the measures to prevent unwanted knowledge transfer. My question is this: have you heard what the drivers are saying: will the whole breadth of this issue be taken into account? We would like that to happen. Not only do we want to gather knowledge, but we also want to work together with relevant experts and services to create a balancing framework for institutions to work with. And we always want to adapt that, together with them, to actuality. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, national. The VVD has a history of focusing on diversity in general, but also on opinions. The reports that students, teachers and/or researchers are no longer able to express themselves freely are known. It is not just about the fact that Vizier Op Links and other opponents of vaccination are quite rightly addressing threats to scientists, it is also about the political correctness in the academic world and the risk of self-censorship. We think it is out of control, because the intention, equal opportunities for all, is excellent as far as we are concerned, but so drawn into the extreme, so is our perception, that it polarizes and in that way solves nothing. We really want to keep the debate open. It also interferes with the objective truth finding, which is so important in science. In the past, there has been research by the Academy into this lack of freedom. Nothing was found in that, but there was a lot of criticism of this research, because it was not clear how that conclusion was reached. The answer to the questions I asked the Minister does not show that the Minister sees a problem, but an inspection study shows that 14% of students are afraid to express themselves freely. I think that's a lot. I also have teachers and researchers reporting with the same complaint. Recently we saw in a study by ScienceGuide that intimidation is a problem for them, especially at universities. Most of it comes from inside and not from outside, i.e. from colleagues and students, and especially from the social sciences and the humanities. All signals put together. What is also mentioned as a danger is that the scientific pursuit of objectivity is at risk. Rationality, for example, is referred to at the UvA in a so-called Decolonization Toolkit as western and colonial. You'll be told as an Asian mathematician! That's what worries me. We do not want literature and research to be assessed primarily on issues such as colour and gender of authors. I would like to stress that I also think it is very important that as much content as possible be involved in science, absolutely, but with the emphasis on it: differences in content, content. For the best result, diversity must be found in perspectives and not in, for example, biological characteristics of people, and they must not always be seen as an exponent of a particular group. I asked you earlier why, in its final guideline for academic freedom, the Academy no longer mentioned the terms "truth finding" and "objectivity" as guiding principles. Your answer was that these are important concepts in science practice, but that good science practice does not just allow itself to be caught up. I understand the latter, but that was not my question. My question was not whether these concepts are important or the only ones, but whether they are leading. Can the Minister confirm that this must be the case and that these concepts must therefore be guiding? What did not reassure us in this respect was the content of what the Minister recently offered to the universities. It was a tool for drawing up a gender equality plan, which was proactively filled with instructions consistent with identity thinking, with decolonization literature and intersectionalism. Of course, people are free to be in favour of this, absolutely, but does the Minister himself agree that this was not a politically neutral handout? And does she agree with me that systemically responsible directors should act neutrally? And if so, how is it going to make it clear to the institutions that a 180 degrees different approach is also okay and that there are no demands from the European Commission at all in that respect? If something is clear to me, then it is that the checks-and-balances that have to ensure that everyone in education and science feels safe and can speak freely no longer function optimally. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if she would like to look again and engage in research into academic freedom in higher education, including a reflection on the most appropriate role of the Ministry of Education in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u7	Thank you. I'd like to congratulate you on your maiden speech. Very nice that you give it a personal accent on the basis of your past experiences. I think you are someone with a heart for the care and also with a heart for the local government. Good luck in this Chamber! As usual, there were no interruptions. I will suspend the sitting for a single moment so that you can receive the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u8	The next item is the continuation of the budget for Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mrs Paul of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all: Hatte, congratulations. It's a rare pleasure that you can keep a story without being interrupted. I've been able to experience it once. I'm sure that'll be the only time. So enjoy it. Mr. Chairman. A few months ago, we moved into this building. I've been trying to decorate my room lately and put some color into it. I finally picked out a little painting to cheer up the room. While I was thinking about this debate, my thoughts kept going to that painting. My eyes were drawn to that. It was only then that I saw that the painting fits very well with the way I look at education. It is an abstract drawing of a group of figures. They're all different colors. They somehow stand a little in the dark and come forward, in the light. Mr. Chairman. Without getting too floating: for me, the essence of education is to give all children, regardless of their colour, background or gender, the same chance to enter the wide world with the right knowledge and skills. Every time I've looked at that painting ever since, I'm reminded of it. But I told you, I'm not gonna get too floating. Because I am well aware that, as we stand here in this Chamber, we are only playing a modest role in this. It's the schools, the masters and the teachers, who stand next to our children every day with incredible energy to teach them what is needed, but also to be there for them when things don't go well, if they don't feel comfortable at home, if things don't go well at home, or if they can't get along in class. Above all, we must enable them to do their job well. High-quality education by good teachers and sufficient teachers: that is where my focus lies. I'd like to talk to you about that today. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I have travelled quite a few kilometres in the country and in the educational field. I've had a lot of conversations and, above all, I've listened a lot to all those professionals, who know a lot more about good education than all of us here together. Excuse me. I've got a creepy cough; I'll tell you that. It can come up from time to time. It's not emotional or anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u10	That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u11	Yeah, you can. In an educational debate, that could happen. But it's a miserable cough. The longer I've been immersed in this portfolio, the more admiration and respect I've become for everyone who works in education. Being a teacher, a teacher or a teacher is much more than a profession. It's like working in care or with the police: that's what you choose because you want to contribute, because you want to help others and because it's your passion. All these people who work in education have long realised the importance of good education and that the strength of future generations and our country is partly determined by the quality of education. Our ambition for the Netherlands, which my colleague Van der Woude has just spoken about, falls or stands for good education. Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing the Cabinet sees that, too. It is good that, for example, the National Education Lab further invests in the quality of our education. But as far as the VVD is concerned, we are doing so in a way that makes that investment work. Of course, we love innovative applications. But above all, we also want to strengthen the basic skills of pupils, as Mr Beertema referred to. We do this with, among other things, the ongoing actualization of the curriculum. This is a long-term process that we hope will be able to put into practice in the coming years. But also through other routes, the focus should be on basic skills in education. How does the Minister view last year's McKinsey report's recommendation to increase the lower limit for obtaining the opinion "sufficient" of the inspection so that we can achieve a broad improvement in education? As far as the VVD is concerned, it is quality education that ensures the best opportunity for every child.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u12	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u13	I have a question for Mrs Paul from the VVD. I read an opinion article yesterday, a very beautiful piece, in which it is argued that every child is entitled to a good teacher or teacher. It proposes a number of things and the VVD says that it is not just a matter of investing a little more, but that more is needed. I would like to ask Mrs Paul what exactly is the status of this document. Is that a new vision of education from the VVD? Is that a wish list? What's gonna happen to the fine things in this play?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u14	At least it's my vision. It's an opinion piece, my view on how we could do things in education. Of course, I am supported by my colleagues in the group. What matters is in the piece "I gave it very clearly to "" is that you don't magicalize new teachers. Of course you have to invest in that education. But it takes a lot of other things to warm people up for that job. I was just telling you that I've been in the country a lot over the past period and I've actually spoken to a lot of teachers. What they're talking about is also what I'm referring to in the play, where that passion comes from, is that they can decide for themselves how they organize things, that they have enough time to focus on the child, and so they are also relieved, for example, by the use of educational supporters, and that in their training they have the space to specialize in certain groups of children, i.e. in the younger child or the older child...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u15	Thank you. I don't know if you have the whole opinion piece...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u16	No, I'm not gonna do that. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u17	I have read it and therefore I am surprised. Because what we're doing here, I think, should be based on things that work, on what we read in reports and hear from representatives of the educational field, and not on a few conversations in the country. I hear Mrs Paul say: this is my vision. That's nice, but I'm gonna ask what the VVD is gonna do in the next few days. Because when I look at the pass-through of the VVD, there is no investment in teachers at all. When I look at Mrs Paul's wish that we treat older teachers well, it was the VVD that wanted to abolish the scheme for older teachers a few years ago. It is the VVD that is always frustrating when parties want to invest more. So I would like to ask her what she is going to do in concrete terms with the wishes contained in this document.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u18	I would like to start by saying that in recent years the VVD has been part of the cabinet that has invested, invested a lot, in education. Mrs Westerveld can say what she wants, but don't talk to me now that the VVD didn't stand for it and didn't invest in it. That's just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u19	I think I am asking a rather specific question. This was also the point yesterday when we also asked the largest party in this Chamber questions that did not come up with an answer. A point of order was even made at that time. I would like to ask a very clear question: what are we going to do about the wishes contained in this document in the near future? Because it's one thing to name beautiful things, to say what you want, but it's another thing to do those things, too. That's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u20	Not words, but deeds. We're gonna get to work on the cases I've named in this piece. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u21	Then I give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u22	I hear very warm stories about ambition level and education in the Netherlands and so on, but I hear so little criticism further. In fact, it is merely a build-up, whereas these two completely powerless ministers have done absolutely nothing in the last four years. You're just talking a little bit. Could you just respond to my own input? In that I make it very clear, very concretely, that all the problems we are in now can be understood from that personalized learning, that self-discovery learning. How do you feel about that? Have you noticed that beautiful black book with the beautiful title "Progressive reverse" of the emeritus professors Paul Kirschner and Jaap Scheerens? That's what I just reported to you. It is not so difficult to improve education at all. It's not about any more money. There has been an enormous increase in money over the years. They used to be able to read and not now. Expenditure has increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u24	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u25	Those are two questions, so I hope you keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u26	No, I just want to make this clear. It was €3.057 per pupil in 1995 to €8.910 per pupil now. And now they can't read anymore! That's the kind of trouble I don't hear about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u27	Mr Bertema has gone so far in his criticism; those words are for him. I stand for a positive story about how we can further improve education with the right things and the right focus and support teachers in what they can do best, so that every child ultimately has good opportunities. We'll find each other in that regard, too. That is what I am saying to Mr Beertema. I was just referring to that. We were talking about basic skills. We as VVD find that incredibly important, eh, because it starts with reading, writing, calculating. You have to be able to do that in order to be able to move on to further education at all in order to eventually maintain yourself in society. That's where we find each other, from a positive story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u28	That's that VVD sound again. They're all so saltless, that talk: "from a positive story." It's not positive at the moment. It's extremely negative. A quarter of the kids can't write and read anymore. That's the problem we're gonna have to attack. I want to hear from you whether you still want to raise those teachers in a positive way in personalised learning, in all those forms of new learning that have led to this disaster. Let's say goodbye to that. Why don't you stick your neck out for that? Then it's just a little less positive, because it's very negative. There is illiteracy in the Netherlands. That's only gonna get bigger, no matter how much money we throw at it. That's because of the educational renewals I'm not hearing about. And that has to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u29	It is very simple: Mr Bertema and I will find each other there too. It is not a question of throwing more money at it. It's about doing the right thing. I've already said what I need to say. It's about focusing on the right skills. It is about... Well, I'm not going to repeat what I said, but I would like to tell Mr Beertema that we won't get any further if we stay in the negative frame that it's all worthless and bad and that we can't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u30	I'd like to respond to that. That negative frame can be broken immediately. This can be immediately broken if, at the initiative of you, the most important government party, these ministers finally take the lead and intervene in all these disastrous educational innovations. That's not negative. That would be the most positive thing we can achieve today. I dare you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u31	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u32	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr De Hoop of the PvdA for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u33	Let me be honest: I am a little annoyed by the speech of the VVD. We first hear about a painting for five minutes. All that is allowed, even if that is half my speaking time. After that, we're getting chest beaters about the money that's invested in education, which would be so fantastic. Even with the 8.5 billion of the NPO, we are still stuck in the Netherlands at the OECD's 12th place. It's just not enough. I find the fact that you call it 'dropping money' crazy, because education needs structural investment. Now I'm going to compliment the VVD as well. During the APB, you helped to secure 500 million for the pay gap by means of a motion. What are you going to do with the rest of the pay gap? There's 400 million left open. And secondary special education hasn't had an extra investment. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u34	Thank you for this question and also for the compliment. If I'm talking about throwing money, it's manner or speech. For us, it is incredibly important that we do the right things in education. That indeed requires money, but it is not just about money. That was my point. Then there's the follow-up question. Yes, quite frankly, these are subjects that have our attention and which, as far as I am concerned, are also addressed in the formation, but which I cannot comment on at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u35	I understand that in the sense that I often come up against the fact that forming parties do not want to say anything anymore nowadays. What I do want to know is specifically about that special secondary education. These are teachers who need extra time for those students who need extra attention. It is a very specific part of the teacher's profession. They are now paid less than the other teachers. Don't you think they deserve equal pay, just like the other teachers we're bringing into the pay gap? Why don't we do that with secondary special education? Does the VVD think that's less important?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u36	Mr De Hoop is a bit narrow about the forming parties. He could have been sitting there at the table, so let's face it. My answer remains the same. I am not going to make any further comments on this at the moment. That is being looked at, but I am not going to make any further comments on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u37	I'm getting a signal from the clerk. We agreed: six questions and/or comments. That's different than six interruptions in two. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u38	Too bad that's being reported just before my interruption, Mr President. I'm a little confused. First, the VVD writes in its election programme of the previous period: no extra money for education. Then there is extra money for education from the negotiations and the VVD says: we are very happy that we have arranged extra money for education. Then there will be a new program of the VVD, but then there will again be no extra money for education. Now you say: extra money is needed. In the AD, you say it's not about money alone. And to Mr Beertema you say: we should not throw money into education. I have a very simple question: is the VVD before or against more money for education in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u39	We are in favour of investing in education. Investing in education consists partly of money and partly of doing things that improve education. This may have to do with the structure and structure of teacher training. This can also be done by getting more teachers at all by attracting more side-intromers, or by better accompanying the existing population of side-intromers, new teachers and older teachers, so that they stay in education and do not fall out. These are all matters that we must do and which we wholeheartedly support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u40	None of those are things I'm against. I was curious how the VVD sees the finances of education for itself. Does she think that, in order to achieve good education, more money will be needed in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u41	I think there's already an incredible amount of money going to education. I think that's a good thing, huh; let's put that first. That is a very good thing. But I don't think it's always spent optimally, and I want to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u42	This was a yes-no question!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u43	You deal with the questions and I deal with my answers. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u44	Those have always been the rules in this house. Then Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u45	This always surprises me a bit with the predecessors of the VVD. They are at the forefront when it comes to distributing money to multinationals and large companies. We have seen it with the abolition of the dividend tax, but they want to keep their hands on the cut when it comes to education, while major investment is needed. How does Mrs Paul look at McKinsey's research, which shows that there has been less education in the last ten years, i.e. Mr Rutte's period? Less money, net under the line, has gone into education, so it is hard to conclude that education may have enough money to meet the basic quality requirements, to check the lists, but does not have enough money to solve the real challenges, such as the teacher shortage. How does Mrs Paul look at this disastrous report figure of this research office for the VVD policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u46	With all due respect to the McKinsey report, there are all kinds of reports. We can beat each other up here with all these reports. I can see that substantial amounts of money have gone to education over the last period. Also in the past period, almost 2 billion euros have gone to education, recently during the General Political Reviews. These are all things that have happened under this cabinet, which indeed, as has been said before, also includes the VVD. So I think it's a really weird accusation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u47	It's not a weird accusation at all, because it's black-and-white. It is written in black and white that all these intensifications are true that some intensifications have indeed been done, and that they were insufficient to ensure that education also improved net. Among other things, because local authorities have reduced spending on education, education has fallen under the line. If we look back any longer, we can see that per capita we simply spend less of our income on education. As a VVD, you share responsibility for this. So I agree with the other speakers who have just spoken. Can the VVD name man and horse? How much more do we have to go to education in the coming period? Because you say that investment is needed to ensure that education is brought to a higher level. How much would that have to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u48	I am not going to put a specific figure on that. Yes, there will be investment in education, but it is at least as important that we also invest in security and justice, that we invest in the energy transition, and that we invest in good care. That will become clear at some point, but what is and will continue to be invested is indeed incredibly important. This is about money, but also about much more: making the right choices and bet on the right things. That's what I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u49	Then I just come to the conclusion that it's all hollow phrases, that they're all sentences that really don't have any substance. You say 'we have to invest', but there is not even a start to an amount that should then go to education. "We have to do things smart. We have to do things better." I think of that as a hollow phrase. It is extremely disappointing that the largest party in our country does not come up with real figures and does not come up with real measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u50	I am sorry that Mr Van Baarle describes my explanatory statement as hollow. All I can say is that there are substantial amounts of money going to education. That then we do not get the results we want... I agree that it is unacceptable that reading and writing skills and computing skills have deteriorated. I think that's very bad, too. So we have to do something about that. But my position is that you're not gonna solve that by throwing another bag of money. We need to look at what we're doing, what we're doing right and what we need to do more about, and what we're not doing right and what we shouldn't do, what we need to stop or find other solutions for. That's my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u51	I don't think anyone wants us throwing bags of money around like that. Mrs. Paul just said we shouldn't stick around in negative frames. That's why I'd like to stick to the facts. Mr Van Baarle was just talking about McKinsey. I'm talking about PwC's report. That was made by order of the Ministry. PwC concludes that in MBO and higher education there is structural underfunding of 1 billion per year. So there's a lot of money going into education, but there's not enough money going into education. 1 billion a year is a lot. Then you can't keep saying with dry eyes: we put a lot in education; the VVD is an education party? Then you must also see that there is 1 billion underinvestment. Or do you disagree with PwC's conclusion? Then I'd like to know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u52	In any case, I do not dare to say that we are the educational party, because then I get into a fight with colleague Van Meenen. Oh, I hear there's more education parties. I'm gonna have a fight with everybody. But to be serious about your question: here too, all these reports and all these insights are taken into account. We are certainly looking at what we want and should put into the next period. But I have no idea if they're gonna hang a billion dollars on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u53	I say it mostly because it's a report of over 200 pages, I say it out of my head. So it's really a thorough report. I see the Minister nodding too. PwC concludes, among other things, I have just looked up the fact that the sector of MBO and higher education has a high level of efficiency. So it's not just a question of spending your money better or more efficiently. The sector already has a high level of efficiency. If PwC says that there is just 1 billion too little structuralally, then you must also dare say: we are going to solve that; we are going to invest that billion? That's not just some amount that PwC has sucked out of his mind; that's well-founded. Then I ask Mrs Paul: why don't you just say 'we take this report seriously and we're going to invest the money that needs to be invested' instead of 'we weigh it'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u54	We take all kinds of reports seriously. You may doubt that and take my word for it, as if I did not take it seriously when I said 'we weigh that'. We're gonna take all these elements with us. A weighting is being made in terms of education, but also in terms of other themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u55	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u56	I will continue my speech. I'll take a sip of water first. Where was I? I need to get back to where I left off. I started to say that with a big financial injection, we're not just pulling out a lot of new teachers. We will have to let more people warm themselves up to go into education and then we will have to look very critically at the way you become a teacher, as the driver approach indicates teacher shortage, Merel van Vroonhoven. It must be made easier to combine teaching with another job. This creates more teachers and allows children to learn from people in practice. You should also be able to choose whether you want to teach younger or older children. This makes training more attractive for side-intromers and probably also for men. We read in answers to factual questions that we will receive an update on the follow-up in December, based on Van Vroonhoven's plans. Can the Minister at least give us an update, particularly on improving teacher training? We must not only attract new teachers, but also retain existing teachers by better guiding start-ups and side-intromers, by encouraging temporary contracts to be converted faster and more frequently into fixed contracts so that teachers have more certainty, and by asking masters and teachers who work part-time to work more hours. I know, before I'm interrupted, that not everyone wants to work part-time or more. But through conversations with schools and teachers, I have also learned that the question is not asked at all. So there are people who do want to work more, but they don't even get that chance. We also need to take into account older teachers who may find the long days difficult. In order to prevent them from falling out, we need to talk to them in good time about less work, because no matter how much we need every lesson, she and our children are even further away from home when they fall out. It is up to us in The Hague to ensure that teachers do not waste unnecessary time with red tape, but that they can focus on teaching and on their students, for whom they have chosen this course. We must also ensure that teachers continue to develop themselves through further training. I do have a question about that. In answers to factual questions, we read that the number of applications for the teacher grant has been decreasing for a number of years. What's the reason for that? Can the Minister elaborate on the functioning of the teacher grant? I am getting signals that the teacher grant is also used by teachers to orient themselves on a job outside of education. That may be human and that is their right, but it is the opposite of what we want to achieve. Can the Minister investigate this so that we can avoid it at a next round and keep these teachers for education? Mr. Chairman. Even with all these measures, the shortage of teachers has not been resolved overnight. In the short term, therefore, we must be pragmatic. That is why the VVD wants us to train more flexible people, to encourage side-influx by better linking the training pathway to what people can and on what experience they have, and to give them good support in this. We need to invest in educational support, which can relieve teachers in certain tasks. In order to achieve all this, good school leaders are also essential, and we are also short of them. So I ask the Minister whether the efforts of the Ministry can also focus on this group. I would like a response from the cabinet to these proposals. Mr. Chairman. Teachers also deserve our support in another area. We see that some of them find it difficult to discuss certain tricky themes in the classroom, while we find it very important that children learn to deal with difficult topics or different opinions, especially children who do not get that from home. But why don't you just stand there on your own in front of that class? If we want teachers to make difficult subjects subject to discussion, it is too easy to call them from The Hague. Then we really should stand next to them. That is why I would like to table an amendment to support parties that can help teachers in this respect in a very concrete way. Before I come to the end of my speech, I would like to ask for specific attention for one group. They're gifted kids. Too often they are forgotten, because we assume that they will manage and we focus on children who are lagging behind. But too many gifted children are currently falling out, resulting in a lot of personal suffering, and capital destruction for the Netherlands. In view of the challenges we face as a country, we need all the power of thought and action. The VVD has made many proposals in recent years to better support this group of children. For example, we have asked for better use to be made of the resources that we have made available to this group. We have also asked for a more appropriate supply of education. And we have asked to make it easier for these children to use higher education. I would like to hear from the Minister about the state of play. Mr President, I will conclude. We need every teacher and master we can get. It's up to us to make sure they're happy to get to work. And yes, in addition to all the things that need to be done, we also need to ensure that working in education pays financially. It is not for nothing that we have invested heavily in recent years, and we will continue to do so. Recently 500 million was released during the General Political Reviews on the basis of the Hermans motion for a resolution in order to create the pay gap between p.o. and partially close. All employees in primary education receive a wage increase of 2.25% with retroactive effect from 1 January. But let us also pay attention to all the other things that make people happy to enter and stay in education. That is what our children are entitled to: that broad basis of good education, which ensures equality of opportunity and enables them to step firmly into the world. In a few years' time, I'd like them to know exactly who that great teacher or master she helped was. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u57	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u58	There is a reason why I and other colleagues may seem a little irritated. Of course, that has to do with the following. When you name business and say you're going to do it, and when you say "every child deserves a good teacher," you have to add your actions to that. When I look at the transfer of the VVD, I do not see at all that there will be a lot of investment in the coming years. That is why, of course, a number of colleagues and I have asked: what are we going to do? Maybe I can get one point out. I read it in the opinion article, but even now I hear that something should be done for older teachers. Now it has been the VVD that decided a number of years ago to cut down the elderly scheme. I would like to ask Mrs Paul very specifically: should this arrangement come back? Is that her wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u59	I hate to break it to you, but I don't know what's good about it. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u60	Then you don't write an article. That's my point. You're not gonna write down things you want, and then say, "I don't know exactly what's going on"? That's the whole point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u61	In the article I mention a number of ideas that you can bet on. But I simply don't know the fine thing about that arrangement. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u62	Thank you, Mrs Paul. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Time's running down so fast! It was just 16 minutes away. The last budget of this cabinet is a good time to take stock. That's what I said last year when I started bringing SP to the Education budget. And here we are again. This cabinet is beginning to become a bit of the Dutch soldier among the Cabinets: you can't get rid of it. We are now discussing education, education that is in deep crisis and education that does not have the patience and the time to wait until The Hague finishes that perpetual navel starring. In any fundamental problem that will be raised in the next two days, the answer is likely to be that it is up to another cabinet. But that cabinet is probably made up of the same parties that now form the cabinet, and there is just a chance that we will be back here next year with these directors. Let me start with the question: what do the ministers actually think of that? Do they share the impression that it is starting to be embarrassing and that education does not have the luxury of waiting another year for something to change? The signals in education are on bright red, but almost nothing happens. The shortage of teachers hangs like a sword of Damocles over the entire education. The people who still work in education are suffering from a huge workload. There are still educational authorities who don't appreciate people. We did not surprise the Minister............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The stories hurt to read. Boarding still doesn't take their responsibilities. We're losing good people for education. There's gotta be another way. At least I made a nice factsheet for the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education. I laminated it nicely, so it doesn't get dirty when there's a cup of coffee on it. I'd appreciate it if he could respond to the recommendations. That can also be done in tonight's written round. For the colleagues I have more than enough prints. If you would like to read some more tonight, you are very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u64	We'll spread these out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u65	I wanted to highlight one of the proposals in any case. That can be quite simple. Give teachers a fixed contract by default after six months. If you can prove to have a reason to doubt it, you might stick to it for another six months, but after a year someone is unfit or someone gets a permanent contract. That ping-pong must be ready. Is the Minister prepared to do so? In higher education, we see similar shit. Especially when you're not a professor, but a young researcher, you're often treated like shit. And yes, higher education institutions partly have a point when they say that there is a problem in funding. But the differences between fixed and flexible shell settings are simply too large. Does the government agree with the SP that an appointment to a college or university also simply includes the prospect of a permanent contract? It doesn't have to be right away, but it has to be possible. Is the Minister prepared to establish a percentage that institutions should have at least permanent staff? Another signal that it is going badly in education is the exponential growth of private tutoring institutions. Already for corona this was a big problem and you can't drive home from the supermarket today by car without hearing another one of those dredging spots on the radio. It's emotional blackmail to knock parents money out of their pockets, because you want what's best for your child, don't you? Yeah, I want education that's good enough so that all those shitheads aren't needed. What is going on here is nothing but a rapid but silent privatisation of education. Corona has given a strong impetus to this, especially through the way in which the cabinet intends to deal with the backlogs. By spending money once within two years, you run a life-threatening risk of cowboys pouring into a pot of gold. Every school I talk to says, "Yeah, we can't do it," but we do it anyway. This destroys education. Firstly, because it is becoming increasingly common for teachers to say: you do this on Thursday afternoons at a tutoring office. Secondly, because it has a negative impact on a class. Teachers tell us that a few students who still receive tutoring simply have a much more negative impact on the rest of the class, because why pay attention when it is explained to you later on one-on-one? And who are ultimately the victims: the teacher but especially those students whose parents don't have the big wallet to patch up for the Lyceos of this world. After a previous tirade about this I got an e-mail from someone who felt offended because he had just set up a company to make tutoring also affordable for people on low incomes. But, of course, that's the world upside down. Where the education of all of us is far from sufficient, you now see that people are going to focus on keeping the commercial market somewhat affordable. I do not blame those people, I blame the Ministry, which has created this situation. Before you know it, an increasing proportion of our education is moving to the market. That is a disastrous development that must be stopped. And we tried. At least three far-reaching proposals from the SP and GroenLinks have been adopted: no more advertising on educational institutions, no more making spaces available and no leakage of public funds from the National Education Programme to this kind of commercial companies. Can the Minister give a detailed account of what has happened in connection with these motions? We don't serve them for nothing. The last proposal was a clear signal: 8.5 billion for education is good, but make sure it is spent on education rather than on tutoring. We're not gonna spend the skiing vacation of educational cowboys. Are you sure that didn't happen? That's not the impression I get. What else can we do to make things difficult for these agencies? There is no quality control. Every weirdo with a party nose and a veteran's degree can just tutor these days and nobody cares about it. Children are not a market, education is not a market, and it should not be. Can we, for example, ensure that schools do not receive a contribution from municipalities? Now sometimes spaces are made available, now subsidies are sometimes made available, now they are sometimes allowed to rent a local for a small price. Can we ensure that direct and indirect subsidies do not go to these kind of tutoring agencies? If the cabinet is going to pursue a more sensible corona policy in the near future, I hope to visit several MBO institutions together with a number of young people in the near future. Why? It is not enough about the MBO and there is certainly not enough talk with MBOs. One of the things that emerged first when I recently went to an MBO in Apeldoorn with a group of young people was the internship allowance. You're supposed to be doing some sort of full-time internship, but you don't get or hardly get any money for that. A student we spoke to was internship for months. He was in ICT training. He was rented for months by his internship company for €180 per hour to a company to build a website. His internship fee was zero euros. Zero euros! Walk your internship with the government, and you'll get well done! homage for that! Somewhere between €600 and €700. That difference cannot be explained to us, especially when it comes to sectors where we need people so badly. So why doesn't there just be a minimum internship allowance just as high as that of the Reich's collective agreement? Is the Minister prepared to discuss that? And yes, I also understand that this can be an obstacle for some small entrepreneurs. But in practice we now also help entrepreneurs to make it possible to train young people within their company. In my opinion, such a thing should also be possible for MBO trainees. Together with the PvdA we managed to arrange earlier that maternity leave for MBOs is properly arranged. We are truly pleased with that. Thank you to the Minister for taking that seriously. But we actually want the same thing for higher education; you know us a little bit. You are currently dependent on how well your institution has arranged it, while no one makes a study choice based on the policies that institutions have around pregnant students. When you make that choice, you will often not know that you will become pregnant during your study period. So you are dependent on the arbitrariness of an educational institution. Can't we just settle that legally? Students have more problems. We've all seen the state of social and emotional well-being. That's not something to be happy about. With the current contagion rates, we are also very concerned about the risk that education will move more and more to online. Honestly, we hear these stories all the time now. Are we already considering, for example, a new compensation scheme? The current regulations are really an incomprehensible jungle for a lot of students. Students have already been excluded from every corona support package. Students have become quite a forgotten group in that compensation. Does the Minister really think that compensation, as it has now been designed, is appropriate to the situation in which students are sitting? Is there any control over how testing is used in educational institutions? Let me put it euphemistically: I get the impression that there is still something to improve on the intention to take a test twice a week. Is there some kind of escalation ladder now?I think it's a horrible word in education, which says: okay, if it continues with these infections, then maybe we're going to do this or that, then maybe we're going to do mouth caps in class, and so on, to prevent education from eventually having to go completely digital again? Last week I was on a vmbo on the outskirts of The Hague. I can tell you that the faces of the students were almost white when it came to the prospect that digital education might have to be re-established in the future. If you have to, you have to, but please do as much as you can to prevent that. Finally, the problem I also began with: the shortage of teachers, that all-threatening problem. Of course, it is a good thing that a little more financial space for teachers' salaries has been released after the General Reviews, but in fact it is foolish that something that is so much support for in this Chamber, namely closing that pay gap, is still not settled. Now you know us. We are never too bad to think along, so we have tabled an amendment. The choice is up to the Chamber. This not only closes the pay gap and increases the unfairly low wages of teachers in secondary special education and primary education, but also improves secondary education. Sorry, I'm a little distracted by Mr Van Meenen, who's changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u66	I get that. So do I, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u67	Mr President, we also have a clear view from here on how Mr Van Meenen is wearing a white sweater. I have to say... I applaud it when people aren't in a suit in the Chamber. That's very good, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u68	Is it an improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u69	Yeah, I think so. I think it's a vso-to-gvo sweater. Is that right? Yes, that is exactly what I am talking about, namely the better payment of teachers in secondary special education. I hope that, in addition to the sweater, there will also be support for the proposals that will regulate it, because that costs just a little more than two sweaters. Not much anymore, by the way. I was talking about the level of salaries in education. It has just been said: it is embarrassing that senior secondary school administrators agree for themselves a collective agreement with a higher salary increase than those of secondary school teachers. These teachers are the people who have had to teach under lousy conditions in recent years. Next, a driver goes on to arrange a pay rise that can easily keep 1.5 meters away, because it has a very large office for itself, which is double what its teachers get. I think that's really incredible. I also have a question for the Minister. Has anything been done about Mr Beertema's and me's motion, which says that the teachers should simply be covered by the education cao? What did the Minister do to get this done? Does he share the view that, now that the collective agreement is in place, it would be only fair, for example, to increase the tax on profits in the Netherlands, so that all teachers in the Netherlands can face this 3.4% increase, and not just the drivers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u71	Is Mr Van Meenen going to ask a question? No, was it that obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u72	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66. Mr. Van Meenen, you look a little informal for your work. Where are you going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u73	Before I do, I do look a little informal. That's right. I'm gonna explain. Well, where do you think you're going? I'm gonna go put my jacket back on. Mr. Chairman. On Friday evening 5 November I was present in De Balie at the alternative throneredes about education. It was an impressive evening, when teachers thought about the beauty of education on the one hand, but also about what is needed for the future to offer students and students the best education and the best opportunities and opportunities. It also discussed what is needed to significantly improve and strengthen the position of teacher, parent and school leader. In short, what is needed to achieve "ggo," as MBO greatness Conrad Berghoef said: simply good education, or very good education as it is intended. You may wonder why I'm wearing a sweater for a change. Well, I received this on November 5th from Suzanne Mekern, a teacher from secondary special education. In fact, her speech addressed the need to include secondary special education as a specialised secondary education in that secondary education. She was wearing one of those sweaters. I said, if you give me one, I'll put it behind the speaker chair. I do that today, because I fully support that call. It does justice to teachers and students. The students in the GVO also deserve happy teachers and the very best education. Mr. Chairman. In order to achieve very good education at each school, I have been able to develop my party's educational vision in recent years. Yeah, you heard right: vision. That is why on that Friday in De Balie there was an explicit demand: vision, coherence, structural solutions and courage. I have said it here before: for too long the political patches have stuck to the wounds of education, but those wounds are too deep and too large for patches. It's time for real healers. So D66 says: invest fully in our youngest generation, in accessible child care for every child, in playful development, especially of language. Invest in a rich school day, with sports, culture, nature, accompaniment and a warm lunch, starting where it is most needed. We look critically at the apprenticeship pursuit system, aimed at premature and final selection. Look at kids, offer them patience and customization. Set high standards, but also give them time and opportunity to meet them. Stop the shufflebox. Take meaningful steps towards inclusive education so that all children can learn and develop together, regardless of whether they have a disability. Take the money to class, to student and teacher. They know best what the money is to be spent on. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the investments needed for this, the teacher is, of course, the most important condition for GMO, just good education. Because whose education is it? That's kind of a tricky question. A simpler question is whose it isn't. Well, at least it's not from teachers, parents or school leaders. The school, that building on the corner of the street where you take your children or grandchildren and pick them up, is out of sight in the administrative agencies paghetti that we all created. That's what this school needs to be freed from. That's where control and ownership have to go back to, because that's where it happens. That is where education is made, where the quality of that education is determined, together with parents. So I say go back to school. I saw this confirmed last week when I was allowed to speak with a group of independent school boards from the Southwest of the Netherlands, i.e. single-pitters. I did so at the invitation of their chairman, Teun Dekker. He is the director of De Kroevendonk, the school which is offered against the current and the wind in inclusive education. A real hero. Let us give such directors, such teachers and parents, and such headstrong schools the full wind. This means giving space, ownership, trusting, investing and also asking for appropriate accountability. Mr. Chairman. My life in education, you know, those 33 years and the period after that in this Chamber has always been very simple. We must ensure good and safe education. That's the simple touchstone for all policy. I'm putting a few things past that measuring bar today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u74	Thank you. Before you do that, there is an interruption by Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u75	What Mr Van Meenen says sounds like music to me. These investments in education are very much needed. But Mr Van Meenen also knows that in recent years, the research has been running until 2018: 1 billion has been under-invested in higher education and MBO in particular. For the past four years, of course, D66 has delivered the Minister of Education. Does Mr Van Meenen intend to do so at the forthcoming formation meetings, because that is really what it is really about to do with the fist and say: we are really going to do something different than in the last four years, because the last four have really not happened enough? My second question is this: does Mr Van Meenen intend to abolish this maled loan system at the forthcoming formation meetings? Because that also creates a lot of inequality and debts for students.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u76	Mr Wassenberg can read our commitment to these discussions in our election programme. That's it. There's everything he calls here and a lot more. We'll see. That's all I can say. On this point, I fully agree with Mr Paul. Mrs. Paul. I'm Mr. Paul, she's Mrs. Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u77	I will simply call Mr Paul Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u78	You may also call me Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u79	I won't do that now. I'll do that outside the meeting. But all the crazy on a stick. Mr Van Meenen makes a glowing speech about what needs to be changed. But let us say that Mrs Paul also had a nice story, but we do not come to those necessary investments. Then next year we'll be standing here empty-handed again, especially those students. I know that guaranteeing is difficult, but I would ask Mr Van Meenen to ensure that at least that system of lending is destroyed. I can ask him that, because, for example, a party like the CDA is very opposed to that. So there's a majority for that right now. Are you at least going to say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u80	I'm not saying anything about this. I promise you that we will do our utmost to achieve all the ideals we have about education, and there are a lot of things that we can do. If you do not yet know our vision, I would like to give it to you, and you can take note of it. I can't say anything else. Just wait and see. It will all come and we will undoubtedly discuss it in detail here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u81	First of all, I like Mr Van Meenen's action. We often work together in the promotion of secondary special education. I am also pleased that this kind of action is allowed back in the Chamber, because I knew that in 2003 Members of Parliament Halsema, Tonkens and Van Gent were not allowed to do so, because no action was allowed in the Chamber. But we do see more things that change that are less bad. So at least I'm happy with this action. Let us therefore make it concrete, I say to Mr Van Meenen. The Labour Party has tabled an amendment of 60.5 million to include it in the wage gap. Can we also count on his support on this issue today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u82	I said what I said about the vso. Of course, it is a very sympathetic amendment, but on another occasion we are discussing all kinds of issues. Mrs Paul has already said that this is also on the table. We shall see how that continues. But there can be no misunderstanding about the intentions. I am just not going to say anything about what we will or will not do with that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u83	I understand you're negotiating. I also understand that we're in a missionary period. But we do have a missionary chamber here. We're talking about a new governance culture and new leadership. Is it not up to us as a Chamber, when we talk about a budget on which we have to decide, to look at proposals and decide whether we are going to do something with them? That is all I am asking of Mr Van Meenen today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u84	That's right, but the cabinet is a missionary. Amendments and motions also call for a new cabinet. I think it is right to make great considerations with the parties who are now talking to each other. This is part of it. But there are very big considerations to make. We make them in conjunction with each other. So I can't start negotiating with you right now on one point that you think is important. I think it's all important. Mr De Hoop knows our commitment. Know that this is part of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u85	I would also like to comment on Mr De Hoop's comment on action in this House. I do not think we should applaud that. It is just within the limits, but I would like to ask Mr Paternotte and Mr Van Meenen to take off those sweaters later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u86	I'll take it off in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u87	The signal has been sent, but this is a plenary room and we should not act there. So before I gave the wrong impression, I hope that I have restored it to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u88	I very much welcome it, Mr. Paul. First a factual correction: Mr Van Meenen says with amendments to ask for things from the cabinet as well. But of course it isn't. That's how we put things in a law. We'll take care of it. In the case of Mr De Hoop, we could simply choose to do so as a Chamber without the intervention of the cabinet. But I also have a question. Mrs Paul has just said something about this and Mr Van Meenen is saying it now. If on every question "we wouldn't have what to do with it" and "we wouldn't have what to do with it" the answer is "yes, that's very important, and yes, that's what we're taking with us during the formation that's been going on for 86 years," what are we doing here for two days? What are we doing here tonight and tomorrow night when the answer to every proposal is: it is on the formation table? Yes, everything is on the formation table; it is about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u89	Everyone has to decide for themselves what he's doing here. But what we're not going to do here is settle all kinds of parts in this Chamber, while we're looking at the whole thing in another place. At least I'm not gonna do that. And we'll do whatever we want here. We all show that we have the heart in the right place when it comes to education. We talk about ideas and we explain to people what we stand for, so that they can assess at the end what is being accomplished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u90	This is a budget debate. It's about what's going to happen next year in education. If I sum up Mr. Van Meenen a little domestic, then it's a talk about what you think is important. Of course you're gonna tell me what's important to you here. But the moment that the next two days are not going to have any consequence in any way, it is drink talk or occupation therapy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u91	I don't hear a question in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u92	Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u93	Mr Van Meenen does not agree with Mr Kwint at all. This isn't a drink talk. This is an accidental coincidence of two events that are important. That is, first of all, the budgetary procedure. We are simply setting a budget so that things happen next year and things go through. In addition, we are working on a cabinet formation, which can make changes to that. That's what I want. I am very clear in that: I want other things to happen or more. I can't even go into that exhaustively today. But that's it, and I hope you'll be able to talk to me soon about what it's become.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u94	Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u95	Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u96	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u97	Mr President, you are right. In the morning I put on one suit with a tie and cufflinks and now I'm talking to Mr. Van Meenen, who's in his pajamas. Well, come on, it's still an activist party. And then it's a hoody. I would like to come back to the beginning of the speech on this D66 vision of education, which we are now very often getting smeared in our hair. Sometimes Mr. Van Meenen pretends to agree with me that all these innovations aren't good. But as it turns out, he's the biggest innovator of all of us. In the educational crisis, the system crisis that we have, D66 comes with the most extensive innovation in hundreds of years, namely a kind of D66 children's camp, where children from 0 to 18 years of age go to school behind a fence, sports and food, all day, until late at night. They're not staying the night yet. They're getting some kind of D66 education there. Even parenting is taken out of their hands, because it is apparently no longer entrusted to parents. They then immediately have the hands free to work day and night to pay the rent. I can understand that. But isn't it an insane educational innovation that you're showing in that vision of education at a time when there's a huge educational crisis going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u98	Mr Beertema may need to look a little less on Twitter and just read that vision for once. Then he will see that what he then calls a kind of state education is simply an offer of children who do not automatically get acquainted with sport and culture and who do not receive homework guidance when necessary. These are children who may need just one hot meal a day once, because they can learn to read, calculate and write better, which we both think is very important. That is what this vision is all about. It's an offer to people. It is an opportunity, just in Mr Beertema's words, to raise people up. It's not an obligation. There's not gonna be an extra compulsory education. All talk on Twitter in between all other misery! You're suggesting that, too, but, Mr. Beertema, you're wiser. You read a book once in a while. Read the book that I have written, for in it you can read it all. I think you'll be very much in favour of it. Finally. We have no difference of opinion, Mr Bertema and I, about how incredibly important it is for children to learn to read, write and calculate. That's a right. I have said this on several occasions here, and that right is currently being denied. That's what I stand for, and that's just asking for very good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u99	Not only do I read Twitter, I also read the article in which the top lady of the AVS, the association of school leaders, is very enthusiastic about the D66 plan. I think she can be found somewhere in the elite of the elite party D66. But on what she described, I base this interruption. They are indeed a kind of children's camps where those children are all day. Anyway, you say it's not. Then that lady from the AVS... That's how far it would've gotten, isn't it? It had already penetrated the General Association of School Leaders and he had a huge cheerful story about this. But they did translate it this way, so with a physical separation. A fence! I see Mr Van Meenen protesting, but that's the way it was. You know, that's how it's understood. Then take that as a warning. Then there is the second part of your answer, which is that these basic skills, reading, writing and calculating are so important. That's fine, and we always agree on that. But when will you finally, like me and like others here, for example the CDA, distance yourself from that horrible personalized learning, that new learning? That continues with the appointment of that hobby philosopher, who has also renewed the NPO and who is now being drawn into education. It's crazy, isn't it? It's not gonna end, is it? That's to be very sad, isn't it, Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u100	First, about the General Association of School Leaders. I would advise Mr Beertema to just listen a little less and look at what all kinds of governing organisations say and listen a little more to people like Mr Beertema and myself, the people who just know what education is all about. Then we'll really get together a little easier. Don't look for contradictions where they're not. I would like to summarize this briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u101	Then there's the second part of my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u102	When? Wait, wait, wait. There's nothing else I can do. I said what I said about it. I think it is extremely important that we teach children how to read, write and calculate. Those are basic skills. That's the point. That's out of order right now. I agree that proven effective teaching methods should be used, et cetera et cetera. That is what we all think, and it must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u103	Mr Van Baarle van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u104	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. You're not gonna wait and see, are you? You're on the buttons. It's your minister. You have more to say than I do. I don't have anything to say. Nobody listens to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u105	Last time I checked, the room was still in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u106	I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen of D66 whether he can look back on the introduction of the loan system. Young people in the Netherlands have an average student debt of €16.501 due to this loan system. Many young people in the Netherlands have difficulty getting a home as a starter, because the student debt as a result of that loan system is included in the application for a mortgage. How does Mr Van Meenen look back on this as a D66er and as one of the executives of that loan system? Would it not be appropriate to apologize on behalf of D66 to all Dutch young people for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u107	The simple answer is: the spokesperson is in trade-K. It'll be up in a minute. Then you can ask me again. The less simple answer is: you can read all this in our election programme. It says what we think of this. There are elements in it which are very sensible and which I hope will be preserved. But we too have alternative proposals. We have always said, even at the start of the loan system, that where things are not going well, we will fix them. That is also part of the conversation that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u108	I find this answer disappointing. Mr Van Meenen will not be surprised. I regret that Mr Van Meenen is not prepared to say here that D66 regrets that they have done that to those young people: that €16.501 debt and that it cannot buy a house because of that debt. Mr Van Meenen may refer to election promises in the election programme, but he has already written some sort of government agreement. That is the test of a coalition agreement with the VVD. It did not include the abolition of the loan system at all. At that time, therefore, you have actually not fulfilled your commitment to abolish it. Then I can only conclude that you had the opportunity with the VVD to put it in and that you didn't? Then it's all hollow phrases of D66, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u109	It is good that everyone is familiar with the piece we wrote with the VVD at the time. That's excellent. But if Mr Van Baarle looks closely, he will see that many major issues are not in that section. Why is that? Because we didn't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u110	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u111	Mr President, let me see where I left off. I was gonna put a couple of things past that measuring bar. That's the next simple measuring bar. We have only one mission: to ensure good and safe education. I had it as a teacher, I had it as a driver, and I have it as a Member of Parliament. That's the key to policy. I'll put a single case past that measuring bar. Firstly, that is the 500 million, structural, to increase salaries in primary education. I'm proud of that. Teachers deserve an appropriate reward for their hard work. This helps to combat the major crisis of the teacher shortage. It's essential to good education. So is that enough? No. We have to close the gap. Then there are the recent reports and investigations on the safety of lhbtiq+ pupils in particular in schools, together with the censorship of school books in the fields of emancipation and science. Bad and unsafe. So that should stop as far as D66 is concerned. Soon, as far as I am concerned, I have made that proposal and the Chamber has gone along with it with a strict discussion with the publishers, to begin with. Then, as I mentioned, from vso to gvo. I can be brief about that. D66 says do it. Practice education. Give those beautiful schools the confidence, and therefore their own, direct funding. I'm just thinking about corona. As far as we are concerned, schools remain open in a safe way and never close again. Of course, we have an eye for the concerns. Mr Paternotte also asked yesterday in the Corona debate what is possible to ensure that security is as high as possible in the future. But I do say that physical education is superior to digital education. Looking each other in the eye, seeing the questioning look, seeing that things are not going well with a student or a student: good education is physical education. At the same time, it has been a maximum enrichment for home students and students with disabilities to be supported digitally. Let's hold that, and especially them. The NPO, the National Programme Education: an opportunity, an emergency measure, necessary and complex, temporarily because it is about corona, but structurally necessary because it is also about the fight against inequality of opportunity. That battle was there, there is, and will be to a great extent again if we stopped some lines of the NPO. D66 therefore wants a structural continuation of the NPO in a number of areas, for example in the area of additional remuneration for teachers in disadvantaged schools. Mr. Chairman. I'm worried about the same extra reward. That is precisely the concern about whether that money will end up in the right place. I've asked about it a few times. The Minister refers to participation and the ex post recovery of money. But that doesn't solve anything for these schools and teachers right now. I'm still getting signals that there are several boards that just decide not to grant the money or to spend it on other things. What is the Minister going to do about this? What about the special education allowance? In response to these questions, the Minister has examined several options to adapt the so-called CUMI scheme, the basis of which lies below. That is very good with regard to D66. But what's his follow-up? Mr. Chairman. I told you before: all children have a right to learn how to read, write and count well in school. But many children lack this right, as all studies show, especially the children who will learn this crucial knowledge and skills nowhere else than at school. This is unacceptable to D66. Therefore, it is good and important that through the NPO, for the first time, the government, in line with Court rulings, has declared that teaching methods used should be effective. That's a lot, and that's very good. Mr. Chairman. Before I go to the MBO, I'd like to compliment the Minister. It has agreed with the pabos on the possibility to do admission tests after the gate. For example, we are not going to immediately charge students for knowledge and skills that they do not yet have or know, but are going to help them to gain that knowledge during their studies, knowledge that is needed to be a very good teacher. Last but not least: the beautiful mbo; I cannot say that as a former teacher mbo often enough. The spearheads for D66, also in the formation, are to begin with the root and branch eradication of internship discrimination, the dismantling of perverse incentives, freeing teachers from the yoke of hourly standards, test dies and other obstacles to being a good and happy teacher, and bringing MBO back to origin, namely a regional training centre also for second and third opportunities, retraining and further training, lifelong learning. Speaking of the latter, lifelong learning: D66 is pleased that money is being released to make the education route for citizens a success in 2022. It is very good that MBO institutions will again have a role in education and lifelong learning. Because lifelong learning should be possible for everyone, so that everyone can participate. That is why I say: if we want lifelong learning, it starts with long life learning, long life education! So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u112	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u113	Mr President, it was a good thing that you told me to take that sweater off, because it was the first time that I was wearing a XXXXL sweater. Well, that was kind of hot, so that's it. For centuries, the Netherlands has been a very fertile delta. Here the seeds are laid for scientific breakthroughs, here the most brilliant minds bloom and here every day we reap the fruits of world-class education and science. It is of course no coincidence that Dutch education and research have such a leading position worldwide, but it is also not a quiet property. It's something that's not self-evident. So I am still using this rather unusual budget treatment, with a cabinet in deep devotional status as we wait for the negotiations, to debate a number of issues in which we as a Chamber and as a country can show more leadership. I will do so on the basis of the three tasks of higher education: education, research and impact on the rest of society. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm gonna go into education. We are at the end of a special year and, indeed, Mr Kwint has just mentioned it: also at the beginning of a winter that raises some fear. Because last year there were students demonstrating with signs saying "I want to go to school." That showed that education is so much more than staring at a screen. Not eat, drag, zoom, repeat, but also meet and look into the eyes. I congratulate the phenomenal flexibility of both students and teachers, but I also sincerely hope that they will not only be attached to screens once again. Mr. Chairman. In recent months, students at a ISO hotline indicated that their training was still fully digital for a variety of reasons, with all associated loneliness and mental complaints. The investigation we saw last week has already been mentioned. I now see that other organisations, such as the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy, say with ease that much of education can be done online. I understand that if you think about mobility, it would be useful to do education online. This is absolutely good for mobility. But let's please start by asking ourselves what's good for education, and then see what's useful for mobility. Let's see if that makes any sense. So I have a question for the Minister. What do you think of the idea of developing a national framework that states how to offer online education makes sense? Would she, for example, ask SURF and experts from the National Institute of Education Research (NRO) to develop such a framework together with students and teachers? Mr. Chairman. I come to an educational innovation that I see more enthusiasm for. That is the development of European training. Now a lot of students from Europe are flowing our way. We can be proud of that, but I would really like Dutch students, from MBO to university, to move more often into Europe and into the world. This can be done by stimulating exchanges, but it can also be done differently, namely by creating a new type of training, at the same time studying at different colleges and universities in Europe. Because many issues don't stick to borders at all, corona doesn't, rivers floods don't, international drug gangs don't... You also learn to stay in a completely different environment when you spend some of your time studying across the border. But these training courses face all kinds of blocking rules and practical problems. Take, for example, the new pan-European master Global Challenges for Sustainability. This is not only given by Utrecht University. They do this together with and therefore partly in Barcelona, Dublin, Budapest and Montpellier. So it is one course, but it has to undergo five separate quality tests, while there are simply European agreements on the quality of a credit. It's called a European Credit for a reason. Fortunately, a kind of emergency dressing has now been put in place for Utrecht, but this has to be done better. Does the Minister agree with us that this is an ideal way to get more balance in the students crossing the border? Does she also think it would be useful to look at the bottlenecks in European training and how we can make this possible in a structural way? Mr President, I see a fellow fan of internationalisation walking towards the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u114	I'm a little slow today. I was just chewing a little bit on the idea of developing a framework for what can and cannot be offered digitally. Doesn't Mr. Paternotte agree with me that it's very dangerous to introduce that? 'Cause that's gonna lead a life of its own. That's gonna get all kinds of perverse stimuli. We already have so-called experts at Albeda College, for example, who had long decided to offer Dutch online, because they didn't think that was so important. Such a framework only invites schools to maximise their ability to offer education digitally. Can we not just say that education is not offered digitally, but that it is taught physically, unless it is an extra floor of certain material for certain students, as it has always been? Because really, this is a sliding scale. If we are going to do this, Mr Paternotte will give all those digitizers and all those administrators, who are always looking for perverse incentives, all the space to keep the students especially at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u115	We fully agree on the example of the Albeda, which was going to give the course Dutch online. I call that precisely because I see that there are quite a lot of places where online education is being given without any thought being given to what that means for students. It is often chosen for what is easier at that time. I understand that online education has a lot of advantages in terms of infrastructure, space you need and mobility, but it has to be about education. It has to be about the students. If students say that in some settings, in some ways, they don't see the added value of a particular lecture compared to the online version of it, then I understand that you can use that, but I'd like to do so within a framework that has been considered, which the students themselves have thought about and which teachers have also thought about. That's why I'm asking you to work on that. This is something that student organisations themselves find useful and interesting. Because now you see a movement that the lessons of many online education are used for more online education, while you can wonder at many moments whether that has any added value. So thank you for Mr Beertema's question. I now come to the topic of research. Actually, I'd like to start with the investigators. Two years ago, this minister said on the strategic agenda: it squeaks and cracks in higher education. The PwC report has already been mentioned. Research showed at the end of last year that one in three teachers and scientists is completely exhausted after a working day. What makes sense is that corona education is heavier and that we have to invest heavily in education. But it also has something to do with labour law. Because being a scientist or a teacher in higher education is great. There are many students who dream of being able to devote their lives to science. Then they are often willing to accept a minimum salary and very long working days. The result is that there is too much flex and there are too few fixed contracts, and that they are completely dependent on the one research grant that is ultimately awarded. But we don't have to think that's normal. Five years ago, the experiment started with the PhD students. That is research but often also carrying out educational tasks, but with the appreciation of a kind of glorified internship: without a pension, without a salary, with only a scholarship. That's fine for those who like to stretch student time as long as possible and like to combine the promotion with a side job, but that's not good if you want to start your life and give your student room to a real student. Research carried out by the PhD Network Netherlands showed that 8% of the PhD students were voluntarily involved in this construction. Then I think: if the guinea pigs say they don't like this, isn't it time to take stock of this experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u116	I am a little surprised at the point raised by Mr Paternotte. Not so much in terms of content, because, of course, I know what he says in it, but because we said the following at a procedural meeting not so long ago. The experiment with promotional education is now being piloted; shall we wait for that pilot and explain this subject controversially? There was a majority in favour of this at that procedural meeting. This has also been confirmed here in this Chamber. So Mr Paternotte can now bring it up again, but we have just declared it controversial. Well, that sounds like a very special style figure to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u117	I understand that a controversial statement means that the cabinet should not take irreversible steps on this, but I do not think that the whole Chamber would be controversial. At least, the Chamber is absolutely often controversial in the eyes of some parties, but what I mean by that is that it would be crazy if no one here in the Chamber could say anything about all the subjects that have been declared controversial. What I'm doing here is to focus on research that has been there in the past year and on the concerns that exist about it. I think it is also logical that, in the run-up to the evaluation of an experiment that is just running, that has its own duration and that should also be evaluated, we should be able to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u118	You can say anything here, even if you're talking about football. As long as you don't ask the cabinet any questions about it, since we've just agreed it's controversial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u119	I think Mr Peters has made his point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u120	I hear Mr Paternotte talking about higher education. We can find each other there on many points. At the same time, Mr Paternotte, like me, sees the deficits that have arisen in higher education, which, according to PwC, is 1.1 billion. Teachers stand the water to the lips. One in three teachers are up against a burnout. The Netherlands is a knowledge-based economy, but does Mr Paternotte, like me, see that his own minister has not been able to prevent the deficits that have arisen? That his own minister made sure that there is not enough room to continue the research in the Netherlands? How does Mr Paternotte reflect on the fact that this also arose during the D66 ministerial office on this dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u121	This minister has started with an extra quarter of a billion dollars in research into higher education. This research money is not only for universities but also for colleges, which for the first time made a big leap. In addition, the Minister also had to fight every year for extra money for higher education, also because the number of students was rising very rapidly. It has been successful many times, but that does not prevent it from squeaking and cracking. Because, of course, a lot of the extra money comes from the loan system, which has just been mentioned. That has offered additional possibilities. I have often heard institutions say that this is, of course, money that is separate and that has to be used within those quality agreements. That's a very nice model, but that meant that on the other hand you just have a little less money on average per student, because those student numbers are increasing, which you can't cover again. This indeed leads to the analysis that more money is needed. You know that from our election program. Anyone who asks about the election programme here, I am prepared to tell you everything that it says: there must be substantial investment in higher education and science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u122	Your last question, Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u123	I'll make it concrete. We believe that 3% of the domestic national product should be spent on higher education, as in line with the European Lisbon objectives for higher education. I am also making a proposal for this with GroenLinks today. I hear Mr Paternotte a lot about that. After Mr Van Meenen's speech, I do not expect him to vote in favour of this proposal at this time. I hope, however, that he will be committed to the formation table in order to achieve that at least. In any case, he knows that, if he really does have such a great heart, he will be able to vote this week or in the near future in favour of the amendment tabled by the Labour Party and the Green Left, which can achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u124	Well, I think Mr Van Meenen was right to outline that we have a formation, where people, I think, expect us to make it happen there too. But that is, of course, a separate process. I am sure he can count on me at the negotiating table, but I am sure he will want to judge me on what is in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u125	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u126	Mr. Chairman. I come on the downside of internationalisation. We can be extremely proud of research of world quality. We are here in the city of peace and justice, a stone's throw from TU Delft, where the best water builders in the world come from. Wageningen is a global concept. But where there is knowledge, that knowledge will also be achieved. Mrs Van der Woude mentioned that too. This can be done voluntarily, when we work together internationally. But that can also be done involuntarily when knowledge is stolen. The second is, of course, wrong. Hack attempts and cyber attacks can only be countered by being better and faster. Of the week there was that attack at VDL; earlier there were attacks at Maastricht University and at the OPCW here. But there is also sometimes cooperation with an unfree country, such as in research into genetic diversity in Eastern China with DNA material of 98 Uighurs. Was that obtained voluntarily? The Erasmus MC was involved in research with supposedly controlled Uighur DNA. With Mr Van der Molen, who will undoubtedly be back at this kind of debate in the near future, I took the initiative last year for the round table. That has been done by now, and that also gave a clear picture of the way the Netherlands is dealing with this now. Of course there is help for institutions, there are good initiatives, and the services are doing good work, but for the most part policy towards non-free countries is something that the institutions themselves should look at. As far as we are concerned, the public authorities should give more direction to this through a clear framework of consideration for cooperation. The guideline on knowledge security is not yet in place. As far as we are concerned, we need a point of contact for knowledge security, where everyone can ask questions about this, to be made available to the institutions. From the universities we also hear that they can have too little screening, or that the screenings often do not go further than just google. I'd like a reaction to that. We have a separate debate on this in January. The Minister is also going to send us more information on this, but I would ask the Minister to clarify exactly what is happening now, and also when this guideline will come into effect. Mr. Chairman. I have one last question about research. Just before the summer, a report was published on research in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, which recommends setting up a science platform on the six islands. Since the Caribbean is the best living lab in the Kingdom and the minister has just been there, I would like to ask if she could perhaps indicate what she is going to do with those recommendations. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my third theme: making impact. Medical science has created a small miracle. I am proud of the role played by the Netherlands. Then, of course, it concerns Janssen, with the most effective vector vaccine against corona throughout the world so far, and Erasmus and Utrecht with an antibody, but also the contributions of RIVM, behavioral scientists and technology. If there's one challenge that affects all disciplines, it's corona. The good thing is that the confidence in science since we measured it hasn't been that high. That gives hope, because corona is a terrible virus, but we also learn a lot from it. Think of the first HIV vaccine, which is now being tested, and the prospect of new therapies for other infectious diseases and even cancer. For a lot of lives, that could make a difference. Moreover, we can do so by forcing the affordability of these medicines, which will benefit the whole world. The Netherlands has enormous potential in this area. We're shifting our economy from industry to knowledge, so medical science offers a great opportunity. But over the past decades, the journey from discovery to really helping patients has only become longer. The Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen has published a broad-based report, which patients associations, companies and science are enthusiastic about. There are many obstacles to overcome, but bringing knowledge together in a single centre of expertise and making very concrete recommendations can do so. So I'd like to hear how the Minister read the Academy report. Also given the fact that her colleague from VWS is busy with a certain crisis, I see a role for this minister to take the lead. Is it prepared to ask the Academy and all stakeholders, from patients to science, to further develop the concept of the centre of expertise? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u127	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u128	I'm going back to the loan system anyway. I had put a question to Mr Van Meenen about this. Mr Van Meenen could or would not answer that. I therefore put the question to Mr Paternotte. I do not expect to receive a completely contradictory answer, but I do hope for an additional answer. In the General Political Reviews, a motion of the Christian Union and the CDA was adopted stating that we should get rid of that loan system as soon as possible. D66 supported them, too. Other parties previously in favour of the loan system, such as GroenLinks and the Labour Party, also supported this motion. So you can see now that a majority of the House is in favour of abolishing the loan system. It's a speech-out. This means that it will not lead directly to any other policy, but it is, of course, a motion which the Chamber must take very seriously. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that this simply means that if the forming parties come to a government immediately, one of the starting points will be that the lending system will go on and that it will be abolished as soon as possible? That is what a very large part of the Chamber wants, including Mr Paternotte's party D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u129	I do not know whether this is additional to what Mr Van Meenen said, but I think you know our commitment. We have in our election programme a proposal to convert the surcharge system into a model with a tax discount, so that all young people who start their careers without work can start with it. You could call it a scholarship. We have also said that we really need to look at those middle incomes and the stock exchanges between the lowest and highest incomes. At the same time, that is something that lies on such a formation table. So I am in fact quoting what is in our electoral programme, and of course we support it. The motion we have supported is, of course, also a very clear signal. But I'd say just a moment. Because I think you're particularly curious about what's going to be in that coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u130	Your last interruption, Mr. Wassenberg. No? Then I'd like to thank Mr Paternotte. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Hoop of the PvdA. I want to be about 7:00 p.m. We need to see how we get out of here and suspend for dinner break. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u131	Mr. Chairman. Today I would prefer to look ahead, but that cannot be done without thinking about where we are now. I must tell you that I am ashamed of the current state of education in the Netherlands. I am ashamed that there are too many children who do not get a fair chance to make their dream a reality and even 251,000 of them grow up in poverty, without perspective and food. I'm ashamed of the fact that where your crib stands, the environment you grow up in, still has a big impact on the rest of your life. It is not normal for the differences between children in the Netherlands to increase. It's not normal for children to be sent home because there can't be a teacher or a master in front of the classroom. I am ashamed that in a rich country like the Netherlands, a quarter of the 15-year-olds are low-lettered. Children and young people have nothing to do with politicians sticking Band-Aids, while the wounds just keep bleeding. But that's what happened under this cabinet. Symptom control and the presence of a party calling itself "the education party with the capital O" were insufficient. Investment is insufficient and not structural. Children do not have enough opportunities in this country, and this has only increased inequality in this country. If we don't intervene, we're gonna create a generation that's gonna have to deal with this her whole life. I think children in this country deserve better. That's our duty. What figure do the ministers give their own ministerial position, I wonder? Fortunately, there are plenty of people who show how to do it and what is needed. These are people like Nour el Ghezaoui of 17 years old, who grew up in Kanaleneiland, where she was the only one from her class to get the gymnasium but didn't accept it. She therefore runs not one, but two homework schools for children from disadvantaged neighbourhoods. I also mention aldermen such as Marjolein Moorman and Hilbert Bredemeijer, who invest unevenly through the differentiation of teacher salaries in order to get equal opportunities for every child in their city. Or think of professional footballers like Colin de Graaf, Robin Pröpper, Stef Gronsveld, Jeff Hardeveld and Maarten de Fockert, who read The Book Club to the attention of young people. I would like to know from these ministers what else they would do if they had the chance again. What are the biggest obstacles they see for a next cabinet? Do they think they're up to the task? Then there's the foundational education. Compared to other rich countries, the Netherlands spends relatively little on education. That is why we are still stuck in place 12 of the OECD. Then, at last, there was an investment in education of a one-off 8.5 billion, which must be spent very quickly. How does the Minister view the initial evaluation? Does he still have ambitious expectations of the impact of the NPO? And what does he have to say to the vmbos, who are many times more backward than their peers at the vwo? As far as reading skills are concerned, it's a full year versus nine weeks. Are once again the students who benefit most from the best teacher for the class, the ones who pay the bill? The lack of teachers remains a gaping wound. The fact that 500 million has been allocated to partly closing the pay gap is a sign that it can be done. These are political choices that this minister has not made in recent years. This harms not only the education itself, but also the belief in the politics of everyone who has been told in recent years that there was simply nothing more possible. It is therefore time for the complete closing of the vso-vo-wage gap. That is why the Labour Party, together with GroenLinks, has tabled an amendment to this effect. I wonder how the Minister reflects on that. The Labour Party will also table an amendment to compensate parents with a small wallet to provide electronic equipment such as tablets and graphic calculators. I'd like a comment on that, too. In the ESC opinion Equal opportunities in education it is recommended to make the rule later and select the exception early. How does the Minister view that? Is he willing to take stock of how he can put this into practice? A brief point on the revision of the educational structure in relation to sick pupils. The budget shall announce its evaluation in 2022. However, a legislative proposal seems to be being consulted already, despite the earlier call to wait until this evaluation has taken place. Can the Minister promise to do this after all? Otherwise, I'm considering a motion on this point. I'm going to the MBO, a hugely important group of students. As the economy recovers, it becomes even clearer how important good professionals are. For them, good and as little online education as possible is of great importance. Personal contact matters. I would like to hear from the Minister what is going on with MBOs who wanted to continue large parts of online education after the measures were abolished. We are now, of course, in a different situation; I understand that. Lacks of internships and learning places have been discussed more often. There is a huge shortage in care, technology and catering. However, students also remain on the reserve bench, because they cannot find an internship or learning work place because of internship discrimination or lack of mentors. These bottlenecks need to be solved, because without sufficient professionals, no progress and no green economy. The extra financial impulse released by the Heerema cum suis motion has had a positive impact on bbl-students. We therefore also propose that the additional 10.6 million be made structural per amendment. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In higher education too, after more than four years, we still see enormous problems with leaders of the educational parties. The water is on the lips in higher education. More than half of the students experienced psychological complaints due to the corona crisis. A quarter of them thought of suicide once or more. PwC concluded that 1.1 billion is needed structuralally to get the basics in order alone. We still do not meet the Lisbon target of spending 3% of gross national income on research, which is extremely important to maintain our research position worldwide. Now I know that the parties of both ministers are very positive about this, because we, as Labour Party, have signed the Knowledge Coalition with them. At least with 300 million, we are taking the first step towards that 3%. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this and on the proposal from me and Mrs Westerveld. Mr. Chairman. I come to the future of the students who currently work mostly at home behind the laptop, build debts and worry about a future without a merchant house or fixed contract. That is the reality. First of all, I would like to mention the Profiling Fund. Unfortunately, far too few students know how to claim this. That's a shame forever. It turns out that people don't know what it's for. I must say that the name is not very clear either. The Labour Party therefore proposes that it be renamed the "Student Support Fund." How does the Minister view that? I'm considering a motion on that point. Secondly, the loan system. At the moment there is a meeting about the return of the basic grant. That's very nice news. But the students who are currently experiencing the stress of the loan system have nothing to do with it. Is the Minister prepared to identify the different possibilities of compensation for this unlucky generation of support within the current and new coalition? Does she agree with the Labour Party that compensation is necessary to prevent an unhappy generation from paying the bill? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u132	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Peters, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u133	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr De Hoop on the passionate story and on the metaphor of patches for bleeding and open wounds that remain despite the investments made by the cabinet. Mr. De Hoop says they're way too low. I have one short question. In the previous cabinet was the Labour Party. Do you have any idea how much was actually invested in education then to make sure that the wounds, which have been there for decades and are only growing, were attached during that period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u134	I was expecting this reaction. Look, first of all, there's a big difference. In Rutte II, we were in a huge crisis. During this period, the money fucked up against the skirts. First of all, as the Labour Party, we have carried out a huge amount of work in the formation of the Rutte cabinet with the considerable austerity targets that were already in place at the time. As early as 2013, Minister Jet Bussemaker succeeded in shifting the National Education Agreement within education spending. I'm fine with it all. I have a comment on a cabinet we're looking at right now. I'd be happy if you'd respond to the Rutte II cabinet. Then I was in diapers, but now we're all in the room. We can all make things change, that things happen. That's what I want to do today. You, the VVD, D66 and the Christian Union are negotiating, but I hope we can also take steps today. Absolutely fine if you point to Rutte II. I agree with you that there was too little investment in education at the time, but I think that there were better reasons for this than at the time, because it is still plotting against the plinths and we, as the Netherlands, are hugely behind the other OECD countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u135	I think it's all very nice and of course it's faint to point back to Rutte II. The short and concise answer is: there was no investment in education at the time. There were good reasons for and so on, but it's really important to me that you use huge words: open wounds, plasters, and it's nothing. If I ask you if you want to look back one year more than the last four years, the answer is: look what the Labour Party has done for great things in a period before that. Let's try to make something out of it together instead of you-baking with beautiful sculptures. There's no need for that. Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u136	It's all good, but I'm not you-baking. I look at what has happened over the past four years and I see that we are still stuck in place 12 in the OECD. I see there is a deficit of 1.1 billion in higher education. I'm talking about this cabinet. These ministers must answer. I am all making proposals today to ensure that we can at least take steps. I hope you'll take a look at that. Otherwise, I can have you-bake again. We are sitting here today looking at this cabinet, at this budget, and we can also make a difference today. If you don't want to do that, you can do whatever you want, but I don't think that's entirely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u137	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u138	It's my last interruption, but I'd like to get rid of it. I am surprised to hear that rhetoric of inequality and so on in society and the cradle that could have stood somewhere else. We're not moving cradles. I'd like to give that to the PvdA. Those cribs are in the spot where they're standing. That's a fact of life. That inequality is there. There's an awful lot of inequality. Sometimes it is inequality in socio-economic conditions, in cultural conditions, in terms of language skills, in children themselves, in intelligence, in appearance and so on. Inequality is there, life's a bitch. But why shouldn't we in that story turn the education back into that great equalizer, which it always was? It was an equalizer with regard to emancipation, upliftment and so on. I think you'd agree. However, I can hear you say again: that middle school idea has to come back, that later selection. We are already in the system of personalized education, of chaos and unrest in education. Those kids are gonna have to be bored to death for another three years. They're just gonna have to postpone and postpone. That's actually the picture you're sketching. It's that old PvdA middle school again. Why don't you join us, the CDA and the PVV, in arguing for the cessation of these educational renewals and for the return to that knowledge base, where we learn to read the children again? That reading is the basis of upliftment and so on. Yes, Chairman, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u139	It's your last interruption, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u140	It's my last interruption, so it's gonna take a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u141	First, I refuse to accept that it is a fact of life that children in the Netherlands are unequal because of the place and neighbourhood in which they are born. I refuse to accept that. In the Netherlands, you are still dependent on your parents' education and on what they have done for the opportunities you have in your life. I think that's horrible. I refuse to accept that. I'm in the Chamber too to change that. It is fine that Mr Beertema accepts that, but I do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u142	Hohoho!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u143	Point two. Yes, Mr. Beertema, you say it's a fact of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u144	This is a personal fact. Mr. De Hoop doesn't seem to be listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u145	What's the personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u146	The personal fact is that he blames me for accepting inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u147	So you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u148	I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u149	You say it's a fact of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u150	Mrs Simons has something to say, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u151	I'm laughing. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u152	Yeah, I'm sorry about that. Mrs. Simons, could you maybe go for coffee? Then you can have a laugh there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u153	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u154	All that noise in the background doesn't belong. Those are manners, Mrs Simons. Those are parliamentary ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u155	Colleagues, colleagues! Mrs. Simons and Mr. Beertema, let's take a break. This was an interruption between Mr De Hoop and Mr Beertema. Mr Bertema has made a personal statement. I am now going back to the answer Mr De Hoop wants to give to Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u156	I'm just gonna take a moment for this, because I'm just sorry that this is happening again. There's really no need for anything. Mr Beertema talks about the fact that, fortunately, he does not accept that inequality. Last week we had a briefing on equality of opportunity, where literally every specialist said: "You can't start early enough. Kids can't need enough time to show what they're capable of. Look at early beginnings, for example with childcare, and look at that broad middle school." Literally every specialist said that. You weren't there, but I base myself on that. I base myself on specialists. I think kids deserve time. It may be that the PVV is in a different position, but I will continue to fight every day that I am allowed to sit here and fight for that inequality not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u157	Thank you. There's been an interruption from Mrs... Mr. Beertema, you've run out of questions. You've made a personal statement, so I'd like to go back now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u158	A personal fact doesn't count as interrupting, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u159	Certainly not, but you've already had six interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u160	Yeah, a total of six. This is the sixth, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u161	No, you already had six. You were already through your interruptions. We're really trying to be honest and keep up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u162	I am not interrupting Mr De Hoop. I can agree with most of what he says. I would like to make a point of order. There are people at home who only got half the conversation because I wasn't at the microphone. I would like to repeat this as a point of order. I was sitting there in my place and laughing like hell. I just had to chuckle, but it really came out of my toes. I wasn't smiling at anyone, but I really laughed at what was said here. I think it is fair that I repeat this in the microphone. Furthermore, I see it as perfectly normal that I laugh when I feel like laughing. People who are behind the interrupting microphone do not have to respond to that at all, as a distraction from the fact that they get a verbal beating from the person behind the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u163	However, I would like to ask my fellow Members simply to have a substantive debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u164	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u165	Thank you, Mr. Hope. Then I'm going to see Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A former colleague of mine is not only an educator in the heart of Africa but also an expert in what we call the Ubuntu culture. This culture is best summarized by the words "I am because we are": a person is not an individual, but a person is a person in relation to the other. My former colleague told me the next story. Far away from what we Westerners would call the inhabited world, there is a school in Kenya. This school does not have the best building, not the best teaching tools and certainly not the smallest classes. Pupils don't have the highest-educated parents. In other words, the conditions were far from optimal. Yet this school year in, year out among the best in the whole district. When he asked how it was possible to perform excellently under such conditions, the teachers replied: "Because we love each other and because we are a community with one common goal: we give the best possible education to our children." Their M.O. showed how far that love went. They told me that each year they made a ranking of who was the most and who had contributed the least to the final school result. An entire team went to support the one at the bottom of the list for even a year to get him or her in a higher place in the ranking. They did so with love and in the realization that the weakest of them determines the result much more than the strongest. They focused on improving the functioning of their colleague by joining what he or she was already good at, and from there worked on weak aspects. Each year this strategy worked and each year another colleague was at the bottom of the ranking. "But the bottom of this year is better than the bottom of last year: we do it together, and that works." Mr. Chairman. A school is a community and not a collection building of individuals who are individually engaged in a trick or learning a trick. Good education is a complicated team sport. He's definitely not a non-committal guy. In order to learn, a child needs enough challenge and a safe place. The learning objective must be reached when he or she steps on the toes. A common mistake is that education should be fun in the first place. No, education teaches you things you couldn't before. That's nice: the art of success. That gives self-confidence, and that presents challenges. That'll make your world bigger. Good education cannot eliminate inequality of opportunity, but it raises people and lays the foundation for a pleasant life. On the other hand, it is also true: poor education, a lack of challenge or inaccessible high goals, miserable lessons or a poor educational environment are destroying children. That's literally a pain in the school. Mr. Chairman. It doesn't go well in education. The symptoms are known: a low level of language and calculation, and the basic skills are not in order. Through dyslexia statements and money from youth care, we partly mask this problem. There is great difficulty with citizenship formation, early school leaving, high workload among teachers, relatively high absenteeism and a shortage of teachers, both qualitatively and certainly quantitatively. That is unacceptable and we must do something about it immediately. I'd like to make a move on how that's possible. Mr. Chairman. Since the Dijsselbloem Commission we have been calling each other in this house: we are talking about what and education is about how. I don't think that's right. Firstly, we do not clearly define what we expect from schools. We're talking about what, but we're not making it clear what that is. Here the Education Council in October also put the finger on the sore spot. We also say that we are not talking about how we are going, but about how we are improving education. For example, we know scientifically that all children can learn to read and write in the basics. We also know how to do that. But if schools want to try to harm children in a different way, it seems that we are fine with that. As if, scientifically speaking, it is known how nurses should put an IV on an ic, but they can also try it in a completely different way, because the feeling says so. If we no longer want to talk about quality, then we will be able to finish the debates we have here in this House in writing. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that schools do not all know exactly what to do and what goals to achieve? And does the Minister agree with the CDA that politics can find something about the quality of education, and that science teaches us how improvements can be made? And then the solutions. We know the solutions put forward here and there. Smaller classes, higher wages, fewer lessons per teacher, lunches at school and an extended school day with all kinds of extracurricular activities. As far as I am concerned, these solutions have two things in common. They cost a lot of money, which in itself is fine. But if it stays there, they do very little or nothing for the only thing that really helps with the quality of education: the quality of the teacher for the class. But then what? Firstly, let us work on a rigid, clear definition of what schools must deliver. Every child must learn to read, write and calculate. And every school works on citizenship in a good way. Schools are called upon to do so. This certainly also applies to teacher training, because there too there is much much needed profit to be made. Does the Minister agree? Second. We know very well how to do this. However, this knowledge is not yet known to everyone in the heart of education. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that there should be a plan to improve basic skills so that children no longer leave school as functional illiterate? Is the Minister prepared to consider how, for example, the NPO funds can be used for this purpose? Third. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that there is only one active substance that improves the quality of education, namely the quality of the teacher? It is here, and it is in Africa. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that everything is sent on within the school, but often not on team quality? How does the Minister intend to promote a learning culture within education, with the school leader at the heart of that quality as far as the CDA is concerned? Is the Minister prepared, for example, to make the inspection more explicit than at present on staffing and training policies in schools? Are the progress talks indeed being held? Are there improvements for teachers who can use help? Fourth. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that when it comes to the primary and secondary quality of lessons, resources should also go there? That there could be standards for, for example, overhead and for the sometimes huge energy that educational institutions spend on fun things for children and PR activities? Fifth. Is the Minister prepared to spread the NPO funds, which have only been allocated for two years, in four years' time, with the express mandate to facilitate learning culture in schools? Or is this, because of the two-year commitments that schools may have already entered into, an outdated idea? Sixth. Together with Mrs Paul van de VVD, I have tabled a motion calling for a Court of Auditors' inquiry into the use of NPO funds, in the knowledge that there can actually be no research for a plan without a pre-arranged purpose and without a proper analysis. How does the Minister see that and how do we ensure that we get a grip on how these funds are spent in this house? We must prevent this, and I am terrified that this is going to fail, and that we will say in a year's time: beautiful, that EUR 8.5 billion we have burned fine, and nothing else has improved sustainably. During the debate on the budget for Economic Affairs, my colleague Mustafa Amhaouch put the finger on the sore spot. We need so many more technically and practically trained people. The challenges of building and sustainability are so great that we can no longer afford to sit back and watch the influx into practical occupations. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that there is a bizarre shortage of boys and girls with practical training in technology and care? And does the Minister agree with the CDA that the training which is certain that there can be no or very little work, have less right to exist? What conclusions does this lead to? If we think it is a good idea for children in MBO to learn a profession in which there is work, how do we improve the flow of VMBO to MBO? So how do we ensure that the technical departments on VMBO remain open? To what extent is the MBO equipped with sufficient equipment and equipment to cope with the consequences of this impulse in the VMBO? How can we make cooperation between business and MBO even better? Isn't there a solution to the shortage of teachers on MBOs? Schools provide trainees who can also produce, and companies provide older workers who can work on an MBO as a practical supporter or even as a teacher, thereby also contributing to the master companion relationship. For example, can MBOs not man production lines within a technical company? How does the Minister see that? Can you reflect on that? Within higher education and above all within scientific education, the number of students increases and increases. Whose good is that, anyway? Do all these foreign students stay here or do we train people, partly with Dutch taxpayers' money, to make money for our knowledge abroad? What does this do with the quality of our education, which will necessarily have to be given partly in English? I was a teacher myself. I wasn't even the very best yet, but in English I certainly wouldn't have been. How does the Minister guarantee that Dutch knowledge through students is not abused and falls into the hands of regimes that violate human rights with it? Finally, citizenship. Mrs Paul has already spoken about this on behalf of the VVD. It is essential to focus on good citizenship education precisely in these confusing times. And really, sometimes teachers have their hands in their hair because they haven't learned how to do it best. We've had the themes here. We talked about Ihbti issues and persecution in the war. They didn't learn how to do it best. In recent years, for example, the Respect Foundation of Awraham Soetendorp has done a lot about this and has received money through the SZW budget to continue the much-needed work there. We think it's time for OCW to take responsibility. We support Mrs Paul's words in order to get back to work on this. Then I'll lock up. In our individualized society we are a little lost, but we are people in relation to another; we exist thanks to and for each other. In education, too, we sometimes lose that. Together, every day a little bit better, with love and focus: our children need that much and we can offer that. I forgot to mention it, but I co-pronounced this text on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u167	There is an interruption by Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u168	I hear a lot of beautiful words, which I sincerely agree with and where we can also find each other in the years to come. For example, when it comes to the importance of basic skills, we are totally in agreement. It is too embarrassing for words that more and more children nowadays de facto come from school. But are we going to achieve something in the next few days to improve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u169	I agreed with the first part anyway, Mr. Kwint. I am sure that we will be able to do a lot of good things for people in the coming years. I'm glad you appreciate our lovely words. But I assume that, after your question whether we can achieve anything here in the next few days, you are actually asking whether I intend to support an amendment outside the formation negotiations. If I may interpret the question like that, the answer is "well, no."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u170	Your last interruption, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u171	Apart from the fact that I think that this is a rather bizarre idea of a task, it is the case that we are the legislative power here. We have a budget debate here and we have a budget here. It is not an occupational therapy, as I said to Mr Van Meenen. But can we expect any concrete policy changes, regardless of the size of the money? Are we going to do something today to ensure, for example, that there is more attention paid to these basic skills in education? Do we allow teachers to ensure that children do not leave education underagely? Don't we accept that? Or is that all on the formation table?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u172	I think I've been really clear. I'm not just saying today but for a long time that I don't accept the fact that we're letting kids leave school as functional illiterate. I think that is also due to the fact that we are trying to teach children didactically. That's not without obligation for me. There is no way that we can do that in ways that are not scientifically proven to be effective. I've seen things. I talked to someone who said, "My daughter's coming back with an empty notebook from the summer." It's November now. Then why is that? She said, "The miss explains it, then the traffic light goes red and then I have to do it myself and check it myself." So it's not gonna end up like that. It's hard to arrange everything from here with a magic wand, but I certainly want to achieve a few things. Agreed. And if there's any suggestions, we're gonna take a look at them together. What I am quite clear about is that even though this is not a occupational therapy, it is that we are in coalition negotiations. And before your follow-up question comes up, I hope that will not take too long. But those are the frameworks within which I work. Everything is considered in conjunction. I cannot support amendments that are going to cost money. It's that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u173	Thank you. That's what we're... I see another interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u174	In addition to Mr Kwint, I also wonder a little bit what we are doing here. We are dealing with a very important budget. It applies to ourselves, but I also know from a number of other parties that we are deleting words until the last minute, because we do not have a lot of speaking time. So we are really trying to get the right words and make the right proposals later. Then I find it rather acidic that we hear from various coalition parties what needs to be done, but that the door seems to be locked at the same time. Then I wonder what we're actually doing here, especially in really busy weeks like this. I'll speak for myself, but it's weeks when I notice that I'm starting to get a short fuse because of the lack of sleep. That might have something to do with it. But the question is, of course, how far can we go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u175	Short fuse I personally get more from hunger than from lack of sleep. You know that, because we know each other. That is not necessarily what is happening now. Let's not be naive. You know how it works, too. If there are coalition negotiations, I can't easily get a little bit of CDA election programme outside the coalition program to try to make reality in the weeks that those negotiations are there. You know that, too. I'd like to leave it at that, but that doesn't mean that what you're doing here is occupational therapy. That's certainly not how I experience what I'm doing here. I am trying to give direction to one of the three things we can do: with words, with budget and with legislation. In this case, it is in fact mainly with words and with this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u176	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I propose that we suspend for approximately 45 minutes until 7:55 p.m. Then we shall begin the debate with Mrs Westerveld as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u177	I will reopen the meeting and ask the members to take their seats. The next item is the continuation of the budget for Education, Culture and Science. Colleagues, let's get back to work! Mrs Gündoğan would very much like to speak in favour of Mrs Westerveld. Both have agreed to this and I hope that colleagues will have no objection to us taking a different order. That has to do with the fact that Mrs Gündoğan has to leave early. Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Zeeland girl, you know: that's best quality. And do you know that you never pay a penny too much for that best quality? Really Zeeland girl! I have said it before: the adage of Zeeuws Girl is like no other applicable to the education policy of the past Cabinets. We may be paying 8.5 billion for the damage caused by the corona crisis in our education, but we forget for a moment that the alarm clock has been sounded for decades by teachers, parents, scientists, students and students, report after report. And the cabinet also seems to forget that with occasional money you cannot solve a structural problem. Mr. Chairman. I spoke in the VWS budget debate three weeks ago about one of the most persistent problems in our society, poverty, and how important it is that we address this problem beyond the domain. This poverty affects education in different ways. Poverty also has a major impact on a child's school career. Volt therefore advocates education that offers true equality of opportunity and actively helps prevent inequality by, for example, free childcare and pre-school education from 2.5 years of age, by free school meals, by broad bridge classes and by later selection. But we also want to prevent this by addressing segregation in our education and exclusion of students, with extra attention to lhbti children. Mr. Chairman. Many points have already been raised, but I would like to highlight some of Volt's important points. I would like to begin with the most pressing problem in basic education: the shortage of teachers. We know how much the quality of our education falls or stands with the quality of teachers and school leaders. In addition to the problem of maintaining teachers, the teaching profession has the problem of attracting people. How can we make pabos and teacher training even more attractive, including for side-intromers? How does the Minister view less hours of teaching per year and more towards the European average? Then the basic skills. We see that the Minister wants to use this by improving the teaching methods and continuing the reading offensive. But isn't this too skinny? Where does the minister want to be in eight years? Is there a clear step-by-step plan for this, over cabinet periods? Then the state of our school buildings. On this issue, Volt agrees with the call made by the VNG, the PO Council and the VO Council. From Volt, too, the call, especially given the pandemic and the importance of good air quality, to invest extra in sustainable school buildings and to regulate this above all domain. I would like a response from the Minister to this appeal on how to do this better. Also within the MBO, the backlogs are considerable. Does the Minister have a plan in place if the corona measures will make practical education more difficult again? What is the Minister doing to solve the internship shortage? About this internship shortage: research by the Verwey-Jonker Institute showed that students with a migration background are still discriminated against above average. How does the Minister intend to combat internship discrimination more actively? Mr. Chairman. Then our higher education and scientific research. There we see as Volt also a number of pressing points. Of course, we are all aware of the structural deficits facing universities. We know that this subject is intended for the formation table, but we would like to emphasise it again. Structurally, a minimum of 800 million extra is needed, with 300 million on top of that occasionally. On top of that, in September, we were also shocked by the news that between 2026 and 2033 EUR 40 million, i.e. 320 million in total, are being cut back on universities because of ICT problems at DUO, no less. This cannot be justified for Volt and indicates how easy it is to deal with the funding of our universities. Does the Minister still support this decision? Mr. Chairman. As far as research and innovation are concerned, we know that the European objectives of Lisbon are far from being met. 3% of GDP for research and innovation has proved too far for the Netherlands. Even the 2.5%, even our own objective, has not been achieved. We know how much these investments, in both free and mission-driven research, are needed for the Netherlands and Europe to meet the challenges of this century. Then we haven't even talked about the financial return. Every euro invested in research and development results in four-fold to five-fold. Moreover, not investing costs us money in the long term. The European Parliament also calls for substantial additional investment in research and innovation. Rabobank recently passed on the proposals of the Knowledge Coalition. I'd say take them to heart and carry them out. Mr. Chairman. Another important subject: the mental health of our students, with which it is disastrous. What is the Minister going to do, for example through funding or selection mechanisms, to significantly reduce pressure on them? The pressure for international students is also high. For example, how does the Minister look at the 56-hour requirement for this group to be eligible for study funding? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the problems in our education, we also see good opportunities. The most important thing we want to highlight as Volt is the digitalisation within our education. It gave a huge outcome during the pandemic. However, I do not think that the EUR 80 million released to further promote digitalisation within education is sufficient. The Minister also indicated that more is possible. What are the Minister's ideas on this? I would, of course, like to comment on Europe, in line with Volt, specifically on the Erasmus programme, the ALMA initiative and the European Universities initiative. The Erasmus programme. Does the Minister, within the framework of European citizenship, see opportunities to allow access to this programme for MBO and HBO students in the same way as for wo students? Secondly, the ALMA initiative. ALMA stands for Aim, Learn, Master, Achieve. It is a youth mobility initiative that focuses specifically on young people with poor access to employment, education or training. The programme focuses specifically on young people who are always out of the loop and fills, as it were, the gaps in the Erasmus+ programme. What is the Minister's view of this programme? What was the Dutch position on this programme? What steps will the Netherlands take to bring this programme to the attention of the people for whom it is intended? Thirdly, the initiative on European universities. This is a global, unique initiative that helps us achieve a long-term impact on innovation and knowledge circulation within Europe. This initiative is not on its own, but is an overarching initiative in the fields of education, research, valorisation, digitisation and internationalisation. The European Council is very enthusiastic about the network and advocates strengthening it. But what does the Minister advocate in this context? For example, we do not see any national funding for this programme, while in other countries such as Croatia, Poland, Cyprus, Finland and Italy there is. I'd like a reflection. I have to finish. We are happy to join what the PO Council and the AOb are advocating: a real delta plan. We just need to be smarter about this. I'm gonna cut my last piece short, 'cause I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u179	There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Woude of the VVD and then by Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u180	I am going to give you extra speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u181	Well, look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u182	I just heard you and thought, "Maybe it's coming." You advocate more money for higher education. I think you're also referring to the PwC report we all know. It does say "more money," but it also contains a lot of other things. I am missing the point: what do you want, apart from more money? Because the reason that more money is needed is of course also that the student numbers, both Dutch students and international, have grown out of control over the last few years and we do not really have control over them. So that's actually my question. There is also a recommendation to do something about small studies: see if you can be more efficient there, look at your research ambitions and focus them better. So what are your plans there? Otherwise, we'll be back here in five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u183	I'd say don't be so frugal. If we want to do something with our knowledge-based economy, the earning model, there was an argument earlier today in this room for the location climate of the Netherlands, I think that we are short-sighted and short-term if we fail to do the attractive thing about the Netherlands and studying here because we think that we can't get the funding. On the contrary, I think that this expenditure is very good in terms of public debt. For they render, as has been calculated by among others the professors Jacobs and Van Prague. They show that education accounts for around 8% while government bonds stand at 0%. The Rabobank has passed on the proposals of the Knowledge Coalition. What is annoying about politics is that we are judged every four years or a year, whereas these are investments that we are making today but which we are only reaping in the future. I challenge you, the VVD, to put this piece of investment into the books for the future of our locational environment and for the future of our knowledge-based economy. I'm not asking for a carte blanche; I'm not advocating a credit card. These are wise releases that are going to render for us in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u184	I think our election program says that we want to invest in education and science. But I'm trying to get an answer to my question. You say we should spend more money; I think you should spend more money; we want to spend more money and invest more. So it is quite clear to me that you want to spend more money. But what exactly? Everything? Did you make a choice? What are you going to do about the student numbers? And when it comes to investing in research, it doesn't mean "invest in everything, do everything a little" but "invest in research that serves our future." What kind of investigation do you think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u185	I don't think it would be healthy for me to decide as a politician and sit in the chair of the academy. But to give a direction, something I've heard and what I think makes sense: I don't think we should cut student numbers. We must be generous in that. Shell's getting out of here, but there's an Israeli company coming back. That says something about the knowledge culture here in the Netherlands. Your partymate Pieter Duisenberg says we can make a Boston here on the North Sea. I believe that we, the Netherlands, can claim a new piece of Europe, namely the knowledge centre. We have the infrastructure for that. We have good universities for that. Then we can also climb up the ladder and maintain our good locational climate. Maybe I see that more broadly because I think this is a good investment. I don't want to cut it. Then what would you spend the money on? I think the universities and the NWO have a very good picture of what the Netherlands is good at. Wageningen is doing very well. Eindhoven is doing very well. Leading is doing very well. There's a lot of knowledge in the universities. They specialize. Let us help them only become more powerful and resilient in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u186	I understand that you do not want to give any direction to that policy from OCW. Do you not think that EZK should have a mission-driven innovation policy that does indeed give direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u187	I think it should be and-and. That's what I'm advocating in my input. For example, we now benefit from those mRNA vaccines. When fundamental research was carried out twenty years ago, no one could think of a single one, but most of us, in any case, did not think that vaccines would ever come out of it that would benefit us now. So I think you should also grant academic freedom, which may not be running for 15 or 30 years. But it's gonna pay off; research has never been thrown away. At the same time, I think you are doing well to investigate today's urgent problems, such as mobility. How can we solve that smarter and more efficiently? You could finance that more from EZK, for example. So it's got to be and-and, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u188	So it's both. That's what I'm hearing from out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u189	Yeah, I said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u190	Yeah, I don't know. I think it's a bit of a word smoke. I have not been able to completely distil out what you want now in education policy, except to spend more money. That's very clear to me. Then I have one question: what do you want to do about the connection of higher education to the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u191	I think the most important thing in that is that you simply offer a good perspective to students or students in the sense of: what can you become with something and what can you not? But I also believe that freedom is a great asset. I don't know, just to say disrespectfully, what your year of construction is. Mine's '77. There have been appeals which, when I was a young girl or even when I was on vwo, I could not have imagined that they would exist now. That there would be people who could build and make 3D printers, I didn't know when I was 18. So let's give science and education a piece of freedom to keep going with time. I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u192	That's the same story. I'm saving my last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u193	Yes. Then I give the floor to Mr Peters of the CDA for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u194	Well, I thought I'd add a little extra time. That of higher education is clear to me: all the money you give to higher education pays 8%. You don't have to point that in advance. That's very easy. If that worked out that way, that would be nice, I guess. I guess I'll stay away from that. But you also mentioned the delta plan for basic education. I am curious to see what vision is behind this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u195	That's what, I think, was big in The Financial Daily yesterday. These were proposals from the AOb and the PO Council in particular. They are mostly about how to make the profession of teacher more attractive and how to keep it attractive. That is also about the fact that the level needs to be raised. But the great message of both gentlemen, as I understand it, is that you have to have the patience to take about ten years to overcome the current backlogs. We're not gonna be able to do this in two years. There are too many delays and too many inequalities in education. Some schools are doing really well. Unfortunately, others are not doing well. We need to get everyone more up with a little patience and compassion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u196	Finally, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u197	That seems to me to be a problem analysis, but not the vision for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u198	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u199	No, never mind, 'cause that's gonna cost me my next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u200	Well, no. This one doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u201	I didn't mean to interrupt you. This is very premature, but I embrace that idea. I spoke briefly with the gentlemen about how you could do that. It could look like a national growth fund. Then you put it off a piece of politics, so that it won't get a complete change of course again in a next cabinet, a bit like the Finns have done to just lift up their education with a slightly longer breath. I think there are elements in that that we need to study more seriously when we are facing a delta plan. For I think it is you, at least, because of you I know it and I am in the heart that our education does not run forward but backwards. So it's really time to tear that shit out of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u202	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Never before have I experienced such special budgetary treatment. On the one hand, this Education budget is crowded with money by the 8.5 billion of the National Education Programme. On the other hand, there is insufficient investment to solve the longer-term problems. I have to tell you quite frankly: that feels a bit uncomfortable, because there are huge problems. Take the teacher shortage. That didn't come out of the sky. For decades it has been predicted that there was a shortage of teachers, and successive cabinets refused to invest sufficiently. We see the same with falling school performance, with inequality of opportunity, with the growing number of homeowners, with commercialization, with the older school buildings, and with the financing of higher education and the workload there. These are all things that have been pushed forward or only taken up when it really can't be otherwise, with the result that both Education Ministers have been mopping up, but with the crane wide open. Mr. Chairman. Then suddenly there came the corona crisis and there was anything possible. In a very short time, 8.5 billion came on the table. And don't get us wrong: we are very happy with all the investments in education, but it does rub. Because this crisis, the corona crisis, is incredibly urgent. But, as I would like to ask both ministers, is the crisis called 'teacher shortage' not urgent? What about the crisis that way too many students are still at home? And the crisis where you're born still makes a big difference in the odds you have? What about the crisis in higher education, which just doesn't work anymore? I would like to ask the ministers whether they agree with GroenLinks that these are also crises and that they will only get bigger if we do not start making plans now and start investing now. Mr. Chairman. We read in the budget that this year's money for the National Education Programme is not running out. Of course, that could also be predicted if you put 8.5 billion on the table in a very short time and say: you have a short time to spend it. But does the Minister also know how much money remains? Is that gonna stay in education? We are thinking of a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I also had a bit of a growl in the letter saying: 'It is striking that although the bottleneck of a tight labour market and the occasional nature of the extra resources is often mentioned, schools often choose interventions that require additional staff'. And just down the road, "We're looking for solutions with them." What do you mean, "obvious"? We have known for years that there is a tight labour market and that there are far too few people for years. Education is then asked to do business with extra money. Then it is not so strange that education looks at ways of attracting staff, and that they cannot find it because there is a tight labour market. What solutions does the Minister see? What are we really going to do about that in the future? Mr. Chairman. We are also concerned that commercial agencies should be given an extra boost. I have often tabled motions on this subject with Mr Kwint before the start of the corona crisis and have often said something about it, but we are really afraid that this extra money will give all these commercial agencies an extra boost, and that there will be a lot more. I'd like to get a response to that point. Let me be clear again: the solutions to structural problems in education must never be found in private education. That must be education for every child, good education for every child. Mr. Chairman. Another point that we should not move forward: appropriate education and homeowners. That is also a group of children that should now be invested in. As the Minister knows, I have long felt that children should be able to go to school together as much as possible, as you can see that children with and without disabilities can learn from each other. That's why I'm such a fan of the "Together to School" classes, where that happens. But I do have a few questions for the Minister. How does he ensure that his ambition, that in 15 years' time inclusive education is the norm, is met and that they are not empty words? Does the Minister agree with me that this cannot be pushed forward and that we have no time to waste? Then why is the continued existence of proven good initiatives, such as the Monk's Cap in Nijmegen, uncertain? I would also like to say to the Minister: this would be outside the existing funding frameworks. Let's do what works. And this school works. That's what they showed us. And what about the implementation of the improvement measures for appropriate education, specifically the education-care arrangements? I also heard other spokesmen say that we want to become specialized education. I am very curious to see what the plans are for that. Mr. Chairman. We have an amendment to give a specific group of pupils in practical education and a specific group of vavo students the right to an OV card. As far as we are concerned, travel expenses should never be an obstacle to education. In the explanatory statement to the amendment, we have indicated why we consider this amendment to be urgently needed. Mr. Chairman. As a Corona spokesman, I would also like to ask these ministers a few questions. First of all, what are they going to do to ensure that education can remain open safely in the coming weeks? I am the last to say that we should close the schools easily, but we should not close our eyes to the fact that many infections occur in schools, and that much more can simply be done to keep the schools safe. Then I'm talking about ventilation, mouth caps, distance, and also about preventive testing. We have also made a few proposals for this in recent months, not necessarily in educational debates, but in corona debates. I would also like to hear how these ministers look at these proposals and, for example, what is going to be done in the field of preventive testing. We just have to hurry, because we know that we have a difficult winter ahead of us. Last night I was standing here with a number of other spokesmen during the Corona debates. It's really in a hurry to make schools safer so that they can stay open, but also to control the infections. Mr. Chairman. Then higher education, because this too has not been invested in for years. There's been late maintenance. At the beginning of this year, the PwC study on funding showed that higher education is structurally inadequate 1.1 billion. That's not just a report like there are many reports. This is a report in which it has been shown that higher education is in short supply. In fact, with the increased student numbers of today, I dare say that it is much more than the 1.1 billion. At the alternative opening of the academic year, I heard Minister Van Engelshoven show understanding for the activists. She also said, "Wait a while. We're in the middle of higher education. We see that we need a billion more." I was actually breathing relievedly after that meeting, which was kind of spicy. I thought it was very good that the minister was there. But it was later a bitter pill that this surprise turned out to be a dark cloud, because there are future cuts in the Education budget. So I'm very curious about what the new cabinet is going to do, but the Education budget doesn't promise very much good for higher education. Mr. Chairman. The answer "that's up to a next cabinet" when we ask for investment, I can now dream. We believe that it is also irresponsible in higher education to carry on with important investments, because we know about the problems. Last week we received a letter of fire from students, teachers and administrators who all say: start now; now that choice has to be made. Mr. Chairman. Almost two thirds of higher education staff experience a high or very high workload. Researchers are often no longer involved in research and have to do so in the evenings and weekends. Investing in scientific research is also necessary if we want to continue to participate internationally, but with the current investments we will not meet the agreed 3% standard by 2030. For the last two years in particular, it should be the hardest proof of the invaluable value of research. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr President, one final point. We know that students experience more and more performance pressure and have more and more psychological complaints. Developing you next to your studies, entering into participation or joining a study or sports association is all difficult for students. For many students that is no longer there, partly because of the enormous pressure of performance. It is not just a question of education; of course we see it further in society. As spokesperson for youth care and ggz, I know about the major problems, but I am also very curious whether the ministers have that in mind and what they can do for education. I am also curious when there is a long-term vision for vocational and higher education, which we asked for earlier. Mr President, I will conclude. I would really like to appeal to invest, because that perspective is needed. Now investing also prevents future directors from only mopping the crane wide open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u204	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to your colleague Mrs Bouchallichh, also from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a viewing tip: The new elite, a documentary of Counter-Light. This documentary is about, among other things, Mr Talbi, entrepreneur and plumber, who talks about his career. Again it appears how important the MBO is and how it is not sufficiently appreciated. The number of students in universities and colleges is increasing, but the MBO is shrinking. Too often there is talk of "higher" and "lower" education, as if it were a better one than the other. Too often children with extra tutoring are pushed to do havo instead of vmbo, and not enough practical skills are appreciated. That is worrying, not only because we have huge shortages of these professionals in care, childcare and technology, especially for the energy transition, but also because people are not treated equally on the basis of who they are and what they can do. I have also asked written questions about internship discrimination before. In terms of internships, there are more problems. For example, there is a large surplus of internships in technology and energy transition, while there is a major internship shortage in care. It is good that the Minister, together with the Ministry of VWS, has allocated extra money to the Internship Fund for Care. My group is still keen to see how these resources can be used most effectively. Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about that? We are very curious about that. It is also good that there is a subsidy scheme for extra guidance and aftercare following the coronapandemic. But the JOB monitor shows that students for the corona pandemic already needed more guidance after the study. We are wondering whether this is a very good opportunity to think about moving forward and making a structural arrangement of this kind. How does the Minister view this and are there possibilities to extend it, apart from the corona pandemic? Finally, the internship shortages in the energy sector, energy transition and technology. Research shows that good and early education can make a major difference in the choice of students and students. Fortunately, all this has been included in the Technics Pact, but the deficits are still very large. That is why I shall be tabling a motion on study information later. I would also like to quote Mr Talbi, whom I mentioned earlier and who called for action in an interview in Trouw. I quote: "There is a need for positive marketing to encourage young people to go into technology. Show children that with a job in technology they help people and the planet, that they cooperate in their own future and that there is good money to be gained from it." Oh, that too. Win-win-win. I'd like to close with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u206	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party. I'm sorry, did Mrs. Pouw-Verweij have an interruption? No, I don't think so. Confusion everywhere! Fortunately, Mr Wassenberg is the rest of his life. Mrs. Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u207	Sorry for the confusion, Mr. Chairman. It was so in my head that I would speak after Mrs Gündoğan. The order has been reversed, and then I thought, "Okay, now I am." I walked forward with good energy, but now I'm saving it for after Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u208	All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u209	It's all chaos and it's got nothing to do with me. Mr. Chairman. I'm falling into the house with the door. Corona. The rates of contagion among children are worrying. How do ministers assess safety in school buildings and educational institutions? Do they agree with me that if there is any possibility of sharper corona measures, the safe organisation of physical education should be a priority and above all, I would like to mention some fun flights to sunny destinations? I'd like a response. The mental and social consequences of distance learning, from primary school to higher education, are still palpable. The recent Monitor Mental Health of students sketches a frightening picture. The problems are much more serious than we thought. It is good that the Minister of OCW talks with the parties involved, but why does the Minister point out in her letter of 11 November for a solution to a subsequent cabinet? I take it from her that she can't solve everything right now, but I refuse to believe that she can't do anything to start a solution. So I'd like a reaction to that. Structural problems such as the shortage of teachers call for structural investment. But we see a kind of yo-yo policy of occasional gifts, interspersed with structural austerity, for a long time as well. But from occasional money, you can't hire structural people. In fact, we read reports that teachers, often with only a temporary contract, leave education to be hired by tutoring agencies. The Animal Party considers that very undesirable, but at the same time this is what the government has directed. This is what you get when your teachers do not offer perspective on a permanent job and on a manageable workload. And now I ask the forming parties to avoid the one-off money from the National Education Programme becoming an excuse to leave education in the cold again and postpone structural investment again. Avoid the education: sorry boys, you've already had; join in the back of the line please. Of course, my appeal also applies to the loan system, which must be replaced by a basic grant as soon as possible. We've just had an interrupting debate on that. Solve the problems in education structurally, reduce the workload by smaller classes, give the teacher more autonomy and more development possibilities and come with fixed contracts. And another structural problem: the persistent attempts of the climate-enemy industry to infect education with child marketing packaged as teaching material. The Minister must also see that the sponsor agreement does not prevent us from finding shameless examples over and over again. That covenant really doesn't have any meaning. One example. With The Pig Story, the pig sector tells children that pigs live a happy life. About the 5 million pigs that died prematurely in the stable last year: not a word. About the pigs with lung disease and pleural infections by ammonia in the stable: nothing. About the pigs that only see daylight for the first time on their way to slaughter: nada. How does the Minister look at this so-called teaching material? He can't be excited about that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u210	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u211	Sure. If the word "pig farming" falls, I'll come running fast. In part, I agree with what Mr Wassenberg said, because we too are deeply disturbed by false teaching material. A number of years ago, when I was not yet a Member of Parliament, I presented a black book to the Education Committee, because we also note that there is a great deal of propaganda in textbooks, but the other way around. Children are still taught that laying batteries exist in the Netherlands. Children receive lessons about casket calves, which no longer exist in the Netherlands for twenty years. I am not going to have a debate on what Mr Wassenberg thinks about pig farming. We will do that in an agricultural debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u212	And your question to Mr Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u213	Yeah, excuse me. It's my first interruption. I'm gonna have to get a little bit started. My question to Mr Wassenberg is: does he think that if one can't, then the other can't? For example, I have even seen in one of the textbooks the logos, addresses and telephone numbers of the Animal Protection, Wake-up Animal and Greenpeace. That doesn't belong in a textbook, does it? What does Mr Wassenberg think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u214	Those are things that can't be compared one-on-one. It is clear that there must be good information in textbooks. But these are class packages that are used by industry, Shell, the pig sector and KLM to rob the schools. We're talking about teachers who have too busy an agenda. We're talking about the shortage of teachers. Those teachers take advantage of that. I can imagine it from the teacher's point of view. Fortunately, the minister isn't one-on-one about what's in those textbooks. Criteria are laid down, but the Minister does not examine all the textbooks himself. I understand you're saying there are things in there that might be obsolete. That's not what we're all about as a room. We decide what should be in it, but we're not gonna put all those textbooks next to each other. I find it really unacceptable that business, whether it be the pig sector or Shell, should come to schools with their own teaching material to offer their own guest classes. That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u215	Well, not quite. I have seen this week that Animal Rights is not business, but it raises a lot of money through donations and offers teaching packages to schools to give the children a lesson in animal activism. That is an organisation with convicted animal activists who have been sentenced to prison for breaking into stables and setting fire to trucks in duck farming. Wake-up Animal also offers class packages. You could see that as propaganda. I find: equal monks, equal hoods. Then we don't have to do it anymore. Then there must be actual teaching material, without any influence from any lobbying organisation. If Mr Wassenberg agrees with me on this, then I think: at least there is something left to talk about. But it's not one thing and it's not the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u216	I do not know these examples, but I do think schools should offer their own information and textbooks. In fact, I do not think it is necessary for information or lessons to be given from the outside world. That goes for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u217	Okay, let me get this straight. So Mr Wassenberg also wants Animal Rights, Pigs in Emergency or Wake Animal to stop offering teaching packages to schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u218	I don't know this example. I have examples of The Pig Story. I have examples of the hunters. Those are examples I know. I would like to see the examples before I make a statement on them. I find his generality that schools themselves are responsible for the content of the lessons. In principle, they should make as little use as possible of what is being offered, especially if it comes from fossil, pig or business sectors in the general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u219	For me it's simple: whether everything or not, and not "this and that at all." As far as I am concerned, there must be no distinction. Anyway, we can be brief as far as I'm concerned. Is Mr Wassenberg then willing to sit down with me, while enjoying a cup of coffee, in your case perhaps with some oat milk in it and in my case with some delicious dairy in it, to see what exactly is being offered to those schools and where we can make a cut? I'm willing to do that. I say you can talk anytime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u220	You can talk anytime. That's what I want to do. But I would like to point out that there really is a difference when institutions with a clear commercial purpose offer something or when people say: these are the things we are concerned about, for example climate change. Of course, that also plays a role when it comes to livestock farming. Let me put it this way: I accept the invitation to look at it once while enjoying a cappuccino with oat milk, or in your case other milk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u221	Cow's milk. I just wanted to say that in my last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u222	We do not agree yet, but I do want to talk about this further. Let's make that a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u223	You have a date, and we can all look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u224	Yeah, we have a date. Who could have guessed? That kind of unexpected thing just happens with the OCW budget. Mr. Chairman. I had just mentioned KLM, which invades schools with running competitions to fill them with advertising. Shell, which was forced by the judge to reduce CO emissions this year, is trying with technical festivals and children's councils to glue the youth, while it is busy trying to kill the earth. My party is asking the Minister to better protect children from that. A greater role for the education inspection, for example, would be obvious. We are also curious whether the government is ready to work on stricter measures in advance of the next evaluation of the sponsor agreement, so that they can be implemented immediately if influence does not stop. What possibilities does the Minister see for converting this sponsor agreement, which does not work, into legislation that does work? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have some questions about the BPRC. I think the minister was expecting it. In 2016, the Chamber unanimously voted in favour of the final phase-out of trials on non-human primates. The plan drawn up by the BPRC itself is about 40% reduction, to 150 tests per year in 2025. The zero that the Chamber asked for is far from in sight, but that is really what the motion asked for. Can the Minister reflect on that? I'd like a response. The BPRC itself reports that it reports annually progress in monkey trials to the Ministry of OCW. Is that what's happening? And if so, how many tests on monkeys were carried out in 2020? Finally. Of the 13.5 million euros in the entire national budget going towards animal-free innovation, 2.3 million is earmarked for the BPRC. That goes to transition, but also to animal welfare. But, of course, those are other posts. Money for developing animal-free research should also be spent on animal-free research. Animal welfare must be an independent cost. Is the Minister prepared to assess the contribution to non-animal innovation to the BPRC and to increase it annually at the expense of the contribution to animal testing? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u225	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In preparing for this debate, an advertisement by Techniek College Rotterdam drew my attention. First-year students of this MBO programme were less in the books last year. Instead, they started working in a biodiesel factory, which built the training together with partners. By integrating the factory into the teaching programs, students learn what it is like to work as an operator in an industrial environment. When I read that, I thought that's education that works. How inspiring can education be? High-level education and knowledge are vital for the future of this country. That sounds like an open door, but there are open doors that must be kept open by all means. This is one. The ShanghaiRanking has recently featured three Dutch universities in the global top 100. There were four of them. Rankings are lists, and there's a lot to be said on lists. Nevertheless, a ranking list says something, namely that we must do everything we can to monitor the quality of our education and research. It is no coincidence that the Netherlands has to tolerate a few smaller Scandinavian countries. Indeed, Sweden and Denmark invest more than 3% of their gross domestic product in research. The Netherlands' expenditure has been below a percentage point for almost decades. Sooner or later, that's gonna take revenge. For a dime to be first rank, there is no place in the world summit. The world summit, we are one of them, and we want to remain one of them. That open door needs to stay wide open. This goes beyond the national budget 2022, but a discussion of a budget of this outgoing cabinet cannot go beyond the long-term perspective. Investing more in research and knowledge development is rewarding. At the end of that decade, every euro that we put in here can raise two and a half times as much money. That is what my group is happy to pass on to the negotiators of the new coalition. Special education is also top education. We have been given budgetary input from the student interest in continuing special education. In the short time in which this representative of interest is active, the VS students have received a sharp look at the field of education. They write to the Chamber that decision-making works pompously, that there is a severe shortage of money, that it stabs in the execution and that individual guidance is lacking because of too few teachers with too many tasks in too large classes. From their letter I highlight the following topic. LBVSO asks for the State examinations of 2022 in special education to be decoupled from secondary education. What is the Minister's view of the flexible design of state exams for the US? If the Minister looks positively at this, precisely because it concerns special education, what is the route? If not, I would naturally like to hear what the objections are. JA21 welcomes the heart of education shown by previous speakers. It is without prejudice to teacher shortages and housing requiring permanent attention, such as signals from different individuals and organisations in the preparation of this budget. The new coalition will undoubtedly come up with a proposal on study funding to take the system on its heels. We expect the students who get between ship and ship to be included, so the students who are now building a debt. In my remaining speaking time, I would like to draw attention to a few other points. The PO Council reports that schools are concerned about the social-emotional development of pupils and about developing the executive skills of pupils, such as attitude to work and focus. Schools therefore want to use the National Education Programme to increase the well-being of students. I have the following questions for the Minister. What does the increasing pressure on the social-emotional side of education mean? Is that what education is designed to do? Are teachers trained to do so? Does this mean a strengthening of knowledge transfer or does it mean that all kinds of social problems lie on the table of education, whereas this problem does not belong to schools at all, but is appropriate at home? To put it bluntly: a school isn't an educational institution, is it? I would like a reflection from the Minister on this. I have another question, in the light of the fact that guidance and structure are essential for students. Does the Minister recognise that teacher training should be more focused on practice? I ask this because I understand that students at an advanced stage of their education are not yet able to build a lesson, let alone know what to ask and expect from students. A teacher who has been in front of the class for 42 years, who is working on his course from morning to evening, also on Saturday, wrote to me: "If we have the best interests with the children in our country, then we have to work hard on standards and values. The parents have a huge influence on this, but don't forget the school." Does the Minister agree with JA21 that investing in values and standards, in the re-evaluation of classical practices and relations of authority, can make a huge contribution to the well-being of teachers and pupils and to the quality of education? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna close up with wok. It's not wok, it's wok. JA21 had a conference about this in preparation. The ministers of OCW will certainly be invited to do so as soon as possible in the light of the circumstances. Earlier this year I asked Parliament questions about wok, cancelling, decolonization, critical racial theory, wrong literature, white superiority, diversity officers and a culture of fear in higher education. The Minister's answer was negative, evasive and repellent. The debate shows that even the VVD is surprised by this denial of reality. I am considering tabling a motion on this subject, because high-level education and knowledge, which are vital for the future of this country, cannot be without money and certainly not without freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u227	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u228	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to warmly congratulate Mr Van der Woude, also from this place, on the beautiful, business and to the point maiden speech. Compliments. I look forward to further speeches. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I want to focus mainly on the foundational education. Finally, I would like to come back to a few points concerning higher education. When I was still working in education, I met older colleagues who had a constantly gloomy view of education: education had only deteriorated since the Mammoet Act. I do not know if there are colleagues here who have known such colleagues. There was nothing but decline and loss. I always thought that was a little dark-eyed. Now I may be more of those who see the glass as half-full than half-empty, but of course there are always pluses and minuses to educational changes. When I read the blackbook of Scheerens and Kirschner over the last few days, I got a bit gloomy. I didn't become a blind eye, and I still don't think I am, but their sketch of the bad ideas about foundational education, the changes, and so on does make you a little worried. That's all the more because I feel like they're putting the finger on a wounded spot. They note, on the basis of the current state of scientific research, that clear standards and clear requirements for results are lacking. The policy will then become far too non-binding. I am not in favour of measuring, measuring, measuring and keys, keys, keys. I don't believe in that at all. It has its function, but in the right way and at the right moments. In this way, it can make a contribution. In the plans for the new curriculum I see a lot of attention for skills. Sometimes they're vague skills: 21st century skills and stuff. Then I always ask: do you mean the 21st century BC or the 21st century BC? If you take a good look at that, it's not all that far-reaching. There you don't have to set up all kinds of programs. You can embed that much better in a sturdy educational curriculum where knowledge is a substantial part of it. Then that knowledge is part of the learning of skills, applications, and so on. My question to the ministers is: do they recognize anything in this? That's a question to both of them. What lessons do they want to draw from the black book with a view to the coming period? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the shortage of teachers. The recruitment of sufficient new teachers remains a top priority. Fortunately, a lot is happening, but there still seem to be other possibilities. The SGP first mentions admission to the pabo. I have also taken note of the intention to adapt the admission requirements. I think it's good to talk about that, because you don't want the quality of the teacher or teacher who comes before the classroom to be insufficient to transfer knowledge. Then we don't get 24% semi-alphabits, but 50% semi-alphabites. That's the last thing you want. I am therefore happy to discuss this, especially in order to give the more practical MBO students the room to get to the pabo via their route. I'd like to have quality assurance. How does the Minister view this? That's actually the summary of the question I had. The SGP also calls for attention to be paid to the side-inflow grant. Like the teacher's fair, it is not available for companies and private education. I fully understand these considerations. But here again the question: do we not miss out on people who could get to work in the funded education? Is it possible, I would ask the Minister, that some intelligent criteria should be used to allow for some kind of admission, which in any case means that you do not lack talent? We are now at a stage where we cannot spare any talent to keep the education going. The SGP is concerned about recent measures to combat unequal opportunities. I would specifically mention the extra bonus for teachers in disadvantaged schools. It is undoubtedly well-intentioned, but it is crippled in substance and risky in terms of its effects. First of all, there is the risk that, in the already tight labour market, there will be improper competition between schools in order to recruit staff. How does the Minister monitor this and how does the Minister prevent this effect from occurring? Can the Minister also explain why additional salary has been set for these teachers, rather than additional support to better cope with the challenge? Last week, the Minister acknowledged that the system for the distribution of the bonus was not always fair. He trusts that sometimes creative accounting can work out. But my impression is that the latter doesn't always happen. Just last week I received a message from a teacher who does not receive an allowance because her establishment is merged with a school that has no backlogs at all. That is why she does not receive a bonus while she is working at a school which has to deal with delays. Understandably, this leads to misapprehension among the teachers who see the bonus being missed, while fellow Members who are lagging behind do fall into the price range. You can no longer withdraw that measure; that is clear. We don't argue that either. But shouldn't you look at the criteria to remove the possible distortions that arise as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u229	Thank you. A final interruption by Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u230	I too am very curious to hear the answer to the last question. But I would like to return to the first part of your speech on that bonus. I think you said, "Wait a minute, if we give extra money to schools where there are many backlogs, it could be that these schools are pulling teachers away from the places where they are now. But that doesn't seem to be a problem, does it? I think that's the point. Or am I wrong about that? Those teachers are gonna work in the places where they're most needed. I do not see that as so much a problem. I think that's the whole point of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u231	Yeah, I get it. That is a very fair question. It does mean that teacher leaves a hole elsewhere. So you actually moved the problem. Then you did indeed do something to fill a gap in a disadvantaged situation, but that did not solve the problem. That is why our question is: shouldn't you have been able to put in more support than mbo-level so that you can meet bottlenecks? That's the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u232	Thank you. The last question also by Mr Van Baarle van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u233	I have a question about the same point. I would like to ask Mr Bishop whether he recognizes that the shortage of teachers is felt to be the most severe in the schools that are lagging behind, as it is called, or challenges, and that this only increases the inequality of opportunity in the Netherlands. As far as the DENK Group is concerned, we have to tackle inequality of opportunity with each other very hard. Then it is not so strange that you say to each other: how can we ensure that teachers in schools where they are fine and where there is no shortage of staff go to schools where there is a shortage of staff and huge challenges to contribute there? I think we're solving a lot of problems with that. Why is Mr Bishop so negative about this measure? What, in its view, could then be a form of support with which we are going to solve that problem? As far as I'm concerned, it's about manpower and women's strength. Those schools are jumping over people who help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u234	I would just like to add my voice to Mr Peters' question. What you're doing is solving a problem for that school, while another school, which may not be under any pressure due to delays, has a problem with it. So you shift the problem; you don't actually solve it. In addition, it has always been taught to me, at the time I had such responsibilities myself, that extra salary, more money, is very pleasant for the short term and solves something, but that it is not a source of satisfaction in the longer term. That is why we are asking: if you still have that extra money available, should you put it in an extra bonus for the staff or in additional support? Then, as far as we are concerned, you place the final responsibility with the highly educated pabo-graduates, who are actually supported by class assistants and teaching assistants. And you could expand that. In our estimation, you'll achieve more with the same money. That is why we have asked the same question. Mr. Chairman. Then the ventilation mission. Not so long ago, the press conferences on corona included an icon for ventilation. It took quite a while for this to get accented. Unfortunately, the SGP also sees this in education policy. The current 30% co-financing by the Empire is a little weak, especially for municipalities which sometimes have a disproportionate number of pupils. Take a municipality like Gorinchem, which has relatively much more secondary schools because it has a regional function. Then it is difficult for such a municipality to impose sufficient resources. Why does the Minister not speed up the remaining 160 million in order, among other things, to help these kind of municipalities? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on higher education and on education and research. For the sake of clarity, I agree with a number of points made by my fellow Members. I would like to make two points. First of all at a dental school in Zeeland, which we were reminded of. Zeeland has a huge shortage of dentists. The age of the dentists there is relatively high. Soon there will be a large outflow to be expected. It is problematic that all dental courses are above the Rotterdam-Nijmegen line, especially if we know that dentists often linger in the region of their training. Is the Minister prepared to work actively to support plans for a training site in Zeeland and to take the geographical distribution into account in the assessment of effectiveness? The knife then cuts on many different sides. I know that the States and the Deputy States of Zeeland are also very willing to think about this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, something about access to education. This is mainly due to the improper pressure on students to be vaccinated, including for more guarantees on the digital educational offer for students who cannot physically follow education. What does the Minister actually think of the first corona basic rule of the University of Amsterdam: we expect you to be fully vaccinated? It says it in English, but the President prefers that we do it in Dutch. Moreover, the ensnaring of universities is not our hobby either. Does the Minister agree that this is not sufficiently carefully formulated? And how is it going to bring that to the attention of the institutions? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u235	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u236	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna talk a little longer than nine minutes, but I'm gonna take that off my SZB budget. First of all, of course, a congratulation towards Mrs Van der Woude for her maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Education is the lifeblood of our society. Through good education children can develop into the skilled and skilled women of the future and into the creative geniuses that take our country to a higher level. They learn the skills to participate in our society. Without good education, no future for our country. Mr. Chairman. To be honest, that future is under pressure. We're seeing the declining educational outcomes. We see the shortage of teachers. We see the increasing inequality. And that is of course not separate from the fact that in the last ten years less money has gone to Dutch education. As a country, we spend less and less of our national income on the future of our children, so there is not enough money to solve the problems we face. Yes, there may be enough money to meet the basic requirements, but really raising education to a higher level, it just takes a lot more money. My first question to the government is: does the cabinet share the view that it simply needs more money if you really want to tackle the shortage of teachers, the workload and the inequality of opportunities? How does the government feel that there are 1.2 billion too many reserves in school administration? That money should actually go to our kids. How is the government going to make that happen? Mr. Chairman. Equal opportunities in education is the absolute top priority for DENK. As far as DENK is concerned, Fatma and Mehmet can no longer receive lower school advice because of their last name. For DENK it is unacceptable that Youssouf cannot find an internship because of his skin colour. And it's hard for DENK to believe that children perform less, because their parents don't have enough money to support them. Opportunity in education is the concrete rot of our future. And that inequality of opportunity has only increased. And DENK will not stop until every child in education gets the same opportunities. Mr. Chairman. There is inequality in the field of origin. It is a fact that unconscious prejudices of teachers and other factors sometimes lead to lower school advice for children with a migration background. That's a fact. I do not want to discuss it, and I also ask the government to recognise it as a fact. Recognize as a fact that when you're called Brahim or Ezra, sometimes you have to fight lower school advice. And acknowledge that even if you take income and education into account, that effect of migration background remains. Recognize this and take action against it. My frustration is that in this budget I read so many good intentions about equality of opportunity, even on this point, but see so few concrete ones. Make sure that attention is paid to under-advising students with a migration background at the pabo. Ensure that more knowledge is disseminated to teachers and school boards about prejudice and under-advisation, specifically among students with a migration background. And support more projects that focus on parent involvement and empowering parents to do something against the duping of their child because of their origins. Mr. Chairman. Another persistent problem faced by students with a migration background is internship discrimination. I find it hard to believe that some students sometimes have to write dozens of letters in order to find an internship. And we see the painful stories of students who have to apply under a different name to be invited. About a quarter of the MBO students face discrimination when looking for an internship and often these students do not know where to go. And they often can't prove it either. Three motions from me on behalf of DENK have been adopted to combat internship discrimination, to explicitly include the fight against discrimination in the recognition conditions, to better inform learners about that discrimination cannot be done and about what they can do about it, and to better inform students about the internship discrimination hotline. I would like to ask the Minister why these motions have not happened very much. Why isn't it going through harder? Mr. Chairman. How will the shortage of internships be solved? The total internship deficit in the Netherlands is 7.632. This means that there are 7.632 young people in the Netherlands who have difficulty finding an internship because of that shortage. Does this government have a concrete plan with concrete objectives to meet this internship shortage? And how many additional internships have been realized at the government, partly on the basis of a motion by DENK? Mr. Chairman. I come to the second cause of inequality of opportunity. This often starts with the salary slip of parents, when one in 12 children lives below the poverty line in the Netherlands. No less than 300,000 children still go to school every day without breakfast. That is simply impossible to explain in a country like the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Education shouldn't be a party for rich people. In my city of Rotterdam, in Delfshaven, more than half of the schools indicate that many of their students do go to school without breakfast. Why aren't we able to make sure kids just go to school with a stuffed stomach? Shouldn't there be extra money for the education deficit policy? Shouldn't the money for educational deficits be spent more effectively? Mr. Chairman. In higher education, income also leads to inequality. This is, of course, due to the loan system, which in practice is a debt system. If you have rich parents, studying is the best time of your life. After all, you don't have to borrow. But if you don't have rich parents and your parents can't support you, it's a different story. You run the risk of being saddled with a huge student debt that haunts you for decades, so you can't buy a house. Mr. Chairman. That debt system is a mockery. Everyone's sick of that shit. Young people are sick of it. Even the architects of the debt system, the PvdA, GroenLinks and D66, dare to do so. These parties should be ashamed of themselves, because they have saddled young people with an average debt of €16.501. I repeat: the PvdA, GroenLinks and D66 must be ashamed, because they have saddled young people with an average debt of €16.501. For those who still haven't received it: the PvdA, GroenLinks and D66 should be ashamed of themselves, because they have saddled young people with an average debt of €16.501. There are indeed coalition negotiations in progress. I am very frustrated that until now there is still no clarity for that generation of young people about what is happening to the loan system. I would like to say to the forming parties: every second in which you negotiate and do not clarify this, the blame is on all those young people who have a study debt. Stop that loan system. Mr. Chairman. Opportunity inequality is also caused by our educational system: too early selection moments, too few broad bridge classes and too large classes, so students do not receive sufficient attention. What efforts does the government make to reduce classes? DENK has always been in favour of setting a maximum size for classes, in order to ensure that students receive the attention they deserve. What about the 102 million applications to encourage schools to set up broad bridge classes? How do they run? Mr. Chairman. There is therefore a great deal to be done: structural investment and addressing inequality of opportunity. But I would like to conclude with a point about what is called the "woke culture" by the right. As far as DENK is concerned, that's not crazy. As far as DENK is concerned, it is very good that there is a broader discussion in education, as well as in science, about how things such as origin and theories may be influenced by normative frameworks, by hegemonies and by how you look at things. It's a pretty normal thing. Putting something like that away like some kind of madness, like some kind of dictatorship, undermines the free debate in the knowledge that we need. I'm finishing up, you can hear it by saying, "I hate that a little bit."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u238	I don't know how much I should feel addressed by these words. For example, I do not think I used the word'madness'. I think we are in complete agreement on one part. It is very important to look at all kinds of facets and to explore them. Then students can weigh what they like, what they do not like and what things from the past we should leave in the past. But I think it's very important for you to take all those things. The part of woke that frightens me very much is that, for example, identity officers are going to look at books and say: we can't read these books at all anymore, because there are bad things in them. I think we should look at those bad things, too, because how else can you learn that they're bad? I can't wait to see how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u239	Some things are just apeert bad. When I see materials, for example, take some educational materials in which references are made to the history of slavery and in which people of color are put away, I do not think we should say: that is normal and you should take that to heart. No, that's just not right. We shouldn't do that with each other. When we look critically at certain things and lay them down along the measuring bar of modernity, namely that we live in a society in which everyone is equal, and when we see that some things, namely that people are put away, do not fit the standards and values of the Netherlands, I find it very normal that you no longer apply those things. Then the second part. I think it's perfectly normal in science to have a public discussion about how hegemonies, compositions of groups and cultures affect how you see certain things scientifically. I welcome the fact that there is more attention to this in higher education. I do not specifically mention you, because it is mainly the PVV who is talking about it being a madness. By putting it away as a madness, you undermine the academic debate that can ensure that matters such as origin and race are treated in a scientifically better way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u240	What I hear Mr Van Baarle say is that there must be a debate about this in education, perhaps also by students with their professors, who can look at these things themselves, form an opinion on them themselves and who can therefore grow within their student days. But the part about which I am concerned is that we go through all the books in advance with a dust comb and say, "we think this is bad, we think this is separate and we want to leave it in the past," that it doesn't make any sense anymore and that students do not learn to think critically and cannot come to those considerations themselves. That doesn't do them any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u241	There is indeed a debate to be held. My point is that by putting things like this away as a madness, you are not undermining your words, and speaking of a dictatorship, precisely the debate that must take place. What the extreme right blames others, namely that it is censorship, they themselves do by undermining that debate. That's what I address. The second point is that you no longer have to debate some things. You can acknowledge that these things are no good, that they are discriminatory, that they give a reflection that is no longer of this time. Then you just have to draw a clear line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u242	Thank you. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear President, Members of the Chamber and residents of the Netherlands. I could have asked for three hours of speaking time, so much I would like to say about education. Fortunately, Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld, as well as others, have already said a lot of things that BBB is very much in favour of. Now more than ever, it is very important to teach our children what a healthy life looks like in addition to regular teaching in language, mathematics and other important subjects. Especially now, in the midst of the corona crisis, we see that being resilient and healthy is essential. Wearable and healthy you become, among other things, by good nutrition. Fresh products especially: vegetables, fruit, a piece of meat, eggs, dairy, fish, nuts. Fresh from the animal, fresh from the land or fresh from the sea. No packets, bags and processed products full of salt, sugar and fat. BBB has long argued for food education, with farm education and cooking lessons from group 1. When we teach children what healthy food is and how to make delicious meals with fresh products, we make them resilient from a young age and they will eat healthier food at a later age and pass this on to their children. According to the Ministry's response, money is made available, but this is still voluntary, so many schools do little or nothing about it because they set other priorities. I understand that, but really, investing in food education and healthy eating can prevent many health problems in the longer term. How does the Minister view this? Of course, other things are also important at school, for example, combating low literacy. The library has an essential role in this. By placing books and other media in the schools and providing support from the library to the schools, the library reaches both the pupils and the teachers, parents and caregivers. In this way daily attention is paid to reading fun at school and at home. Reading is necessary for learning. Those who read a lot and therefore understand lyrics better, gain knowledge and can therefore develop further. Stories also help to make you feel better and understand others and therefore society. It makes you creative. I could read in kindergarten myself. Further on in elementary school I was a bookworm. I don't share high school performance here for a while, because there are probably children watching. In this case, they should not take an example from me. Anyway, eventually it worked out. Partly by reading a lot I ended up here. It's handy, by the way, if you don't find reading and writing punishment and want to be MPs. The proximity of a library at school or in your city or your village is, in short, of great importance. Fortunately, the number of libraries in primary schools increased between 2016 and 2020. Can the Minister indicate whether the number of libraries in schools will increase or at least not decrease? Mr. Chairman. About the shortage of teachers the following. I think that not the hard work but the lack of appreciation is the reason why teachers stop or get burned up. Not only are they financially undervalued, but also by parents. I hear a lot of stories from teachers that parents see the school as care, are rude, can have little and constantly question everything. A recent example: there is a class whose teacher has been tested positively for corona, but she still teaches the class from home. The parents are then angry that their child is at home, because that is not convenient at all. They complain that the teacher or master teaches coughing and tasting online. They don't think, "I'm glad my kid's still in school." Because that teacher or master could have called in sick. These kinds of events chop into it with teachers. From one person who was tired of business and is retraining into a primary school teacher, I got the following. Literally quote: "Many people who start the training are going out. Of our group of 23 people there are now only 11 left, for example because many subjects are not focused on practice." This person also states: "Practical placements are useful and educational. A theoretical basis through study courses, such as pedagogy, learning psychology, behavioural disorders, is fine. Other subjects are often not focused on practice. Think of writing reports or group plans to write. Internship counselors then look at it, laugh at it and say literally: you really never do this in practice again." One more example. Internships should create a logopedia plan, a minigroup plan for e.g. three lessons. But what is the practice? A teacher will simply refer the parents of a child to the speech pedist. Or a group plan lasts at least three months. There are also many double keys, e.g. wiscat. A knowledge-based mathematics test is mandatory from the government and then there are also three pabo-tests with arithmetical numbers. A lot of writing to write. Sometimes up to 100 pages have to be provided with reflections on the functioning in the classroom with all kinds of evidence. And why? Just to get the check mark of "command completed." Wouldn't learning in practice be much better? Just making meters and running hours in a classroom. Clear frameworks that you have to meet during the internships. Open up at different schools instead of at one school. How does the Minister feel about that? At the teacher training course are all HBO and WO graduates, who consciously opt for the education! Should we have those real dolls clay or have 40 songs sing in front of the camera? Then what are we doing? As I said, out of the 23 potential teachers in this group there are only 11 left. The rest of them stopped because they went crazy from all those assignments. I'm sure there were some good teachers in there, but they're already burning on the pabo. Mr. Chairman. The impact of the corona crisis on education is greater than we could have imagined in 2020. Children can read and calculate less well and have mental complaints, burn-outs and sleep deprivations. The National Action Comitee Scholars, the LAKS, receives these complaints daily. A great deal of money has been made available for the recovery of secondary education, with which schools were able to get to work quickly. BBB would like to know what happens to the problems that most likely require longer attention than the two years of funding from the National Education Programme, the so-called NPO funds. For example, can there be structural investment in promoting equality of opportunity? I do not mean that population groups should be promoted, because positive discrimination is also discrimination. BBB is against all forms of discrimination. However, we must ensure that everyone is given an equal chance. Can there be more room for the simple but oh as important things as reading and writing? It's really nice, you know, that kids learn to drum on African drums or can pan flute, but I think it's much more necessary to get the basic skills in order. Most of the pupils are happy to get back to physical work and go to school. However, because of the fact that, in my time, Vavo schools were called "Mother Mavo" or "Mother Havo" as I see it, this is not self-evident for some people. Allow travel expenses for Vavo students, so that people from the region and those who are closer to cash are encouraged to attend this training. Is that possible? The Netherlands has a screaming shortage of professionals. There are 96,000 vacancies in the technical professions alone. Never before has the need been so great. Too many MBO students are being trained for occupations with low labour market opportunities. The July ESC opinion shows that education offers opportunities to achieve greater equality. Leading to technical studies contributes to this. In addition to mandatory coordination on both the start-up and cessation of training, several training courses in the MBO should also be able to work with a halt. Through hybrid teaching, businesses are increasingly supporting MBO education. The Industrial Coalition has often advocated a subsidy for technical hybrid teachers. This really needs to be deployed now. This requires an investment of 50 million euros per year from the government. This should be financed from the funds for reducing the shortage of teachers. How does the Minister view this? Is the Minister also prepared to spend more money on technical MBO training, as proposed by the parties to the Industrial Coalition? Mr. Chairman. The seed to poke people to become craftsman or craftsman must be planted early. That's starting to be proud. However, also by our Chamber, professionals are often regarded as low-educated. Low-educated is often referred to in one breath as poverty, unhealthy living, lack of opportunities in the labour market and disadvantaged neighbourhoods. This frame, which we also contribute to, may make parents reluctant to send their child to the vmbo or later opt for the mbo. Therefore, BBB wants to move away from the distinction between low-skilled and highly-skilled. I shall therefore retable a motion that I have tabled earlier not to use these terms here and in the government. After all, the Netherlands cannot do without our professionals. The Netherlands runs on professionals: ICTs, construction workers, care workers, carpenters, hairdressers, welders, truck drivers, metalworkers. All the material in this room has come here by professionals: electricians, carpet lovers, carpenters, chairclothers, handicrafters, ICT'ers and so on. Without professionals, no computers, no lights, no tables and no chairs in this room. Without professionals no houses, no roads, no furniture, no hands on the bed, no things that are neatly brought to your home, no nice new hairstyle, no cars, no food on the table and no beer on the terrace. You name it all. Because vocational education has become an underprivileged child, we are increasingly forced to take staff from abroad. But what if those people aren't available anymore? We can't let them make us dependent on overseas, can we? We need to train our own professionals. So, for example, by never calling vmbos and mbos again "low-educated" or "low-educated." That's a negative stamp, when we have to be crazy rocks on these people. Why can't we, as a government, put professionals in a positive light more often? Is it perhaps possible to launch a large, long-term public campaign to ensure that these professionals receive the recognition they deserve, with appealing examples of professionals who are themselves crazy about what they do? 'Cause I'm sure there are. In the meantime, on behalf of BBB, I am putting all these millions of professionals in the Netherlands under my belt. I quote for convenience a beer brand that originally comes from Groenlo and is now based in Enschede, but which is still ours in the east of the country: craftsmanship is mastery. You are not just the professionals; you are the masters. Thank you for keeping our country running for good and bad times. We've seen that for the past two years. Mr. Chairman. Because of the time I have already passed, I want to leave it at that, but not without saying that as far as BBB is concerned, a basic grant will be available for all students. Let's not start our future generation with a debt to their working lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u244	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Wassenberg. That's his last one right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u245	I was hoping you wouldn't notice, Mr. Chairman. Anyway, this is my last interruption. Mrs Van der Plas said at the beginning of her story: children should learn more about food in school. She mentioned plants, but also meat and fish. Then I would like to ask Mrs van der Plas whether children should hear the whole story. Should they also learn about the climate effects of meat? Should they learn about the health risks of eating processed meat, such as a high risk of colon cancer? Do they need to know about the health risks? We have just discussed listeria infections and deaths that have been caused by them here in the Chamber in Question Time, about the EHEC bacteria and MRSA bacteria. Do things like that have to be learned? Because I think that is very much related to meat production and to eating that meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u246	If we are going to tell the children everything you want to tell them, then I suggest we also bring in someone from the ggz, because that seems to me to be very traumatic, with listeria and cancer and so on. That seems a little over the top for elementary school students. But I certainly agree with you. And we're gonna have coffee, so we can take this subject to the head. Of course, I just think there should be honest information. You don't have to call hallelujah over all sectors; you can also show the less rosy sides. I always like to leave it to someone else how they feel about it. I'm not an opponent of that. But to confront children with all those scary diseases and death at the age of four, I don't mind...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u247	But you're going to have coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u248	Yeah, the rest will have to go to the coffee, unfortunately. I'm out of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u249	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u250	Thank you, Mr President. 'Tough' is the word with which I would like to describe our budgetary discussions. Because, on the one hand, where the missionary cabinet appears to be very low on the one hand, when it comes to drilling in the Wadden Sea, yet another lobbying for the abolition of dividend taxation or the submission of inadequate legislative proposals to extend the NCTV, on the other hand, we are faced with low-policy budgetary choices which, over and over again, do not provide structural solutions to the crises affecting our country: the corona crisis, the supplement crisis, the youth care crisis, the Groningen crisis and the subject of today's education crisis. In this budget, the main policy ideas are the additional investment in the National Education Programme, the NPO. It has been mentioned a number of times today. In doing so, the outgoing minister will make available EUR 8.5 million on a one-off basis in order to catch up in education as a result of the pandemic. It is an occasional investment which must be divided between all education sectors and be spent within two and a half years, without any clear vision behind it. Mr. Chairman. The NPO is an expensive, but not effective parade that doesn't help education, but market forces. Because instead of structurally investing more in teaching staff, schools are also forced to hire expensivezzp'ers. Instead of having an integrated approach to the shortage of teachers, 71,000 teachers left primary education during the Rutte era, 45% of whom were under 55 years of age. We also see that the shortage of teachers is unevenly distributed. Especially the children who benefit most from a good teacher, for example, because they come from a low-language family, are the hardest hits from the shortage of teachers. White flight among teachers, unhealthy workload, lower salaries and priceless homes are all structural problems that we've been aware of for years. Those are the problems that the field of work would like to see solved. Despite all the signals from the teachers, the schools and the educational councils, the outgoing cabinet stands firm in respect of a National Programme that does not remove the concerns of the sector. I wonder, how is that possible? Mr. Chairman. The Round Table mentioned earlier that the degree of inequality of opportunity in education is a political choice. Mr De Hoop referred to this too. The question is what equality of opportunity may cost, not occasional, but structural and not between now and two and a half years, but always. For example, equality of opportunity means looking for alternative moments when a student is selected and tested when the level of secondary education is determined. Encouraging broad bridge classes, countering under-advisation, actively involving children and parents in school advice, making schools more accessible to disabled students, a free preschool, putting an end to post-code policies, active anti-discrimination, healthy lunches, abolishing the loan system, free teacher training and, of course, tackling low-literacy are all things that take structural money and a lot of time, but they should be worth it to us. Because it has been said more often today who has the youth has the future. This does not mean that occasional investments can never be good, but as far as BET1 is concerned, occasional investments are being used to kickstart structural investments. That is why I am tabling an amendment in the area of low-literacy. International research shows that the reading and language skills of children and young people, especially among 15-year-olds, have fallen considerably. 24% of our young people are at risk of leaving school under-literated. 24%! The trend is that this share is decreasing rather than decreasing, which means that around 250,000 children are deprived of the opportunity to participate fully in all facets of society. With the amendment I will be tabling, we are endeavouring, with an occasional boost of EUR 3 million, to make an extra effort to prevent low literacy among young people and to promote equality of opportunity in education. On the one hand, we want to focus more on early language development, reading promotion and reading pleasure of young children from low-language families, and on improving the provision of information to parents, so that they can navigate through the education system more easily. Because often they are children of less wealthy parents who start primary school with a language disadvantage and who get lower educational outcomes based on the same learning performance. In addition, I am tabling a motion to organise a national covering system for dealing with low literacy, which minimises the differences between municipalities and allows existing programmes, initiatives and foundations from the field of work to be more integrated, but above all more inter-sectoral, with each other. A great deal of work has already been done, but there is still much to improve on the approach. It often turns out to be too fragmented, and such a fragmented approach we simply cannot afford to tackle a problem that affects so many different socio-economic areas. Mr. Chairman. Equality of opportunity also means: being who you are, everywhere and always. I have therefore read with surprise in the explanatory statement that the outgoing cabinet is aiming for only 90% acceptance of lhbtiqa+ people in education. I am also a little confused by that, because I wonder what the outgoing minister means by an acceptance rate of 90% of Ihbtiqa+ people. Isn't education an essential place for everyone to be safe? And is it not the responsibility of the government to strive for a 100% acceptance of both school-based youth and educational staff regardless of moral, religious or ethical views against gender diversity in society? Opportunity equality also means taking into account neurodivergent students and the mental well-being of our students in general. Like so many other structural challenges in our country, the pandemic has shown us that our students often suffer from loneliness, emotional exhaustion, performance pressure and sleep problems. Neurodivergent students are too often misunderstood. And yet we still lack an integrated chain approach to strengthening the well-being of students in which educational institutions, municipalities, health authorities and the ministries of OCW and VWS work closely together. Equality of opportunity also means making higher and secondary vocational education more accessible. It means that we offer young people from the Caribbean Netherlands the support they need, not only to study in the Netherlands but also to successfully complete their studies and feel at home here. It also means abolishing tuition fees, reintroducing the basic grant, improving links between MBO and HBO, strengthening and broadening MBO, and removing barriers to study for working people. It should be everyone's right to study wherever, whenever and in any way and regardless of the size of your wallet, the place of your cradle, your age, your name, the need to continue working alongside the study or your educational starting point. Finally, learning equal opportunities means learning about yourself, learning about each other and learning about where we come from as a society. Unfortunately, that is not happening enough. To this day, in our education, a one-sided story is told about our colonial past. The consequences of this have been seen here today in this Chamber with all of us. That which is not understood is also directly rejected by many. It is a pity that we only know a one-sided story about our colonial past, because it does not do enough for our society. Our common history is not just one of injustice and inequality. It is also one of the struggles for freedom, for dignity and for equality. I have already mentioned the following in my contribution to the discussion of the budget of Kingdom relations. It is now 226 years since a man rose up in Curaçao, at the time a colony of the Netherlands. He was a black enslaved man who led a rebellion against colonial rule. His name was Tula. It is now 137 years since an Indian woman in Surinam rebelled against the forced contract labour and the conditions in which she lived. Her name was Janey Tetary. Who knows the Javanese woman Nyi Ageng Serang or the Moluccan woman Martha Christina Tiahahu, who both fought against the colonial rule of the Netherlands? I share this history because it is our history, our Dutch history. It's bad that we don't know those pieces of history and that we don't grow up with them. In fact, it is a shame that they are being placed under the carpet, hidden from us and actively excluded from our education. With this, we not only lose an archive of stories about black and Asian leadership, talent and resistance. We also lose the collective memory of what we have been through as a society with each other, where we come from and how that history colors our present. That is why my last motion calls for research into the excavation, expansion and archiving of the stories of anti-colonial freedom fighters and resistance heroes from Dutch history, so that we can better understand each other, so that we can learn more about the past and work towards an equal and just future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u251	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for keeping the co-workers. I will be brief, bearing in mind Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. But today, if I were to ask a random child at school, "who is Johan van Oldenbarnevelt?', Could the answer be: isn't that FC Twente's left-wing pitch? Mr. Chairman. Education can be vital. What would have happened to the young man who was singing in the immortal In the ghetto by Elvis Presley "as the crowd cats round the angry young man, face down in the street with a gun in his hand in the ghetto" if he had enjoyed decent education with hope for a better future? Cutting back on education is a gap in the future. Teachers in the broad sense of the word should train younger generations with passion, idealism and pride. This certainly does not relate only to theoretical skills. There is nothing wrong with good craft skills that educate a child into plumber, electrician or carpenter. Practical education with older craftsmen who as master train the student as a companion and later as master is important. The old thoughts of the guilds weren't that bad. However, in all cases, it must be undisturbed by regulatory pressure imposed by bureaucratic professional managers looking only at scaling up, spreadsheets and output. It must be without fear of physical and mental safety, which is threatened by overly assertive media, and without curling parents who have lost sight of the principle of "prepare your child for the road, not the opposite." In higher education, the Auctoritas Magister is threatened by snowflakes, by social warriors claiming safe spaces in a loud tone and activistly forcing independent minds to be canceled. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. Education starts with the youngest, who we have to learn to read, write and count, as well as to be sturdy citizens, because in stormy times you better stand firmly in the ground with your roots than try to turn the wind every time. The teacher's the boss. As Bordewijk said in his book Bint: the teacher must not descend, the student must climb. Good education allows everyone, regardless of origin, to use the marshal's staff that sits in the beating of every child by usurping with his talents. Good education connects, especially if we do not cut down on professional teachers in the fields of music, theatre and physical education as unnecessary luxury. When children work out together, play or make music, the differences disappear. Especially sport is not an unnecessary luxury in our age of youth obesity, although I had gym three times a week; it doesn't always work. Good education, accessible to everyone, is the basis of our democracy. Corona has caused learning disadvantages. Can the Minister indicate the extent of these delays? In view of the importance of education, there are a number of obstacles, as I have heard from teachers: too many administrative burdens, questionnaires and policy documents that discourage the teaching staff of their core competence, namely knowledge transfer and educational activities. The management culture is deadly for professional content. There is fear of personal and mental safety. After all, in scientific education, the cancel culture as a hungry group of hyenas is always lurking, waiting for that one misstep. There is a healthy frustration with regard to the social and material appreciation of teachers, teachers and teachers in higher education. They talked about scaling, smaller classes and said that more time and attention for individual guidance is missing. Let's have a conversation and a dialogue with the people in the field, the professionals. They want to talk, without being talked about by policy makers and managers, but not with them. Mr President, finally, a caveat by this old cynical economist, not an expert, but a father. An amount of 8.5 billion for education, as promised by the outgoing cabinet, gives hope. However, without any concrete plans, I fear that such a huge amount of money may fall prey to consultants, interim managers and other vultures. Perhaps we should make a structural reservation of 16 times half a billion to improve education and salaries. I'd like to know what the Minister thinks about this. Mr. Chairman. OCW is close to my heart. As a member of a small, divided group, I would like to make a greater contribution. If the permanent chamber committee for OCW allows me, I would very much like to expand my areas of attention with OCW. One more tip. There's a shortage of teachers. I understand our Prime Minister teaches one day a week. If he extends that to five days a week, we'll have at least one teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u253	Thank you, Mr. Ephraim. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the directors, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u254	We will continue the debate tomorrow afternoon. Then the rulers will answer the many questions and we will have a second term. Thank you for all your attention.
