ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the joint debate on the legislative proposals 33328, Proposal for a law of Members Snels and Faster laying down rules on the accessibility of information of public interest, the Open Government Act, and 35112, Proposal for a law of Members Snels and Faster amending the proposal for a law of Members Snels and Faster laying down rules on the accessibility of information of public interest, the Open Government Act. I warmly welcome the Lower House members Snels and Sneller and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u3	Mr President, thank you. More than nine years after submission of the first version of the current bill, after processing the necessary notes of amendment and finally a novelle, we are discussing today the initiative proposal Open Government Act. To begin with, all praise for the initiators and the successive defenders of the proposal, the Dutch MPs Peters, Schouw, Verhoeven, Voortman and Van Weyenberg, and for today's defenders, Snels and Sneller. Certainly, I could make a joke about their names in relation to the length of the trajectory, but I would rather remember their perseverance and the importance of the bill, an interest that has only become greater and clearer in the past year. There has been a growing lack of confidence in the government in several areas and different dossiers. The call for transparency has increased. In the end, the government is there for the citizens, not the other way around. In a country in which the power and responsibility of the citizens are self-evident, it is therefore appropriate for the government to be completely transparent in principle. Of course, there are exceptions that must be properly regulated, but the starting point is openness and accessibility of official public documents. It will therefore not be surprising that my group has always supported the intention of this proposal. For GroenLinks, strengthening democracy is always high on the priority list. Therefore, citizens should have access to information and tools to influence policies. This proposal is about that information. At first, however, we have been dubbing about the feasibility of the original legislative proposal. We liked it, but we saw all kinds of hooks and eyes on that feasibility. We therefore welcome the changes that have been made through the novella. In this form, we are much more positive about this feasibility. But of course that's water with the wine. We understand very well that we now have to answer the question of whether the Open Government Act still goes far enough. That's what my first questions are about. After that I have a few smaller things but in my view not more insignificant things. Are we going far enough with this bill? Do we give citizens, journalists, society, sufficient control over what is happening in decision-making by the government? An important benchmark for this could be the Tromsø Convention. In 2014, the initiators in the Lower House said that they expected the Netherlands to join the convention, given our involvement in the establishment. My first question is therefore whether today's defenders still expect the Netherlands to join. But more important than expected is the demand for the will to do so. What, according to the initiators, but I also ask the government, would be the added value of signing and, of course, ratifying the Treaty? What would possibly stand in the way of this? Does the government and the initiators agree with my group that it is desirable that, where possible, we should be in line with international standards, such as Tromsø, and in any case do not do less than is provided for in that treaty? In concrete terms, then, the question is, of course, at which points the Open Government Act will still have to be amended to comply with Tromsø. We understand that it is at least the absolute ground for refusal of competitive business and manufacturing data and the exception disproportionate disadvantage. We understand, of course, that such deviations from Tromsø may be the result of the political process of amending the law that is now before us. We will have to vote on this law here and do not make it dependent on it. But my question is: are there now compelling, legal reasons why we should deviate from Tromsø on these points? In other words, when we sign the Convention, can we bring this law into line with the Convention or do we encounter problems? And that's a legal question to the government. Is the legal validity of the Woo at risk if we sign and ratify Tromsø? I'd like some more advice from the government on that point. I'll close this part with a request. Is the government prepared to examine, after the Open Government Act has been introduced, whether further steps are needed to meet the standards of the Tromsø Convention and to share the outcome with the Chambers within one year, so that the discussion on possible accession can be continued? That's my first question. Following that, the necessary concessions have been made for feasibility. The evaluation must, of course, make it clear how the law works, including in terms of feasibility. My question to the government is whether it is prepared to include in that evaluation the question of whether there is scope for further action to increase the public awareness of governance in the future. I ask that because we like to see the Open Government Act as a growth model and the government as a learning organisation. How beautiful that would be. Is the government prepared to include this in the evaluation? I'll follow up with a few smaller questions. First of all, following on from the point of progress towards further transparency. They are small, not in the number of words I spend on them, but in the proportion they have in the law as a total. Moving on to further transparency. When does the government expect the first results of the experiments with the information register? Is it prepared to speed up its entry into force if the results are sufficiently positive? Then there is the exception to the disclosure of the opinion of the Council of State. In principle, these opinions are actively and prematurely made public, and no longer as they are now, only when the government actually submits a legislative proposal. This is a major gain, but my group does have a question in Article 3.3.5.a where it states that in exceptional cases the government may request that opinions be made public only at the time of the submission of the legislative proposal, if prior disclosure would undermine the purpose of the law. We understand that well, but we are uncomfortable with the fact that the government itself decides whether it believes that this exception would be appropriate. I start with mistrust; unfortunately, we know too many examples of the deletion of text or of the non-referendable declaration of laws when the government was convenient. But regardless of mistrust, in principle, we believe that a law that protects citizens against government arbitrariness should be able to determine precisely when the government can make use of an exception. That is why we need more explanation. Under what circumstances is it legitimate for the government not to make the opinion public? Can the initiators further explain how they intended this in the text? Does the term "breaking down" mean more than disclosure could lead to behaviour that circumvents or undermines the law itself? Is our interpretation that this can only be dealt with in exceptional cases, such as in the case of emergency legislation of a far-reaching nature? Do the initiators agree that this will never really be the case in the case of legislation in which the intended entry into force is in the future, because in those cases there is still time and room for behaviour that undermines that law, so that in the cases where the entry into force is in the future, there can be no reasonable purpose in the government's request to exclude disclosure? In other words, is it true that such a request could only be made in the event of retroactive entry into force? We would like to see this interpretation clarified. In conclusion, is it not a good idea that such a request from the government should actually be evident to all those involved so that the Council of State should perhaps be given the freedom to say yes or no at such a request and that if the Council of State believes that it is logical that the document should be made public, then a request from the government will actually lose its strength? I'd like an explanation of that. Now it is not in the law and we cannot change the law, but could we explain the unless provision in such a way that the government will not make such a request if the Council of State disagrees with that request? I would like an explanation as to whether we can accept this interpretation for what. For us, this is an important part of the interpretation of the law. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions about the scope of the law. First of all, due to legislative restraint, the Open Government Act is not applicable in the Caribbean Netherlands. We understand this very well, but the question is whether our citizens in the Caribbean Netherlands have the same rights in material terms as in the European Netherlands. Or are they disadvantaged if this law does not apply there? Has Caribbean Netherlands been consulted on this issue? How do the initiators and the government consider the importance of citizens in the Caribbean Netherlands, particularly given that these are small communities where public access to government may be even more important in order to avoid opacity and to expose any conflict of interest? Is the government prepared to consider how the Public Administration Act BES can be adapted to the level of protection of the Open Government Act? I would like to see it as simple as possible, but still focused on material equality between the citizens here and the citizens there. I come to my final point. One of the fringes of the Public Administration Act was the distinction between public and special educational institutions. Public universities, for example, are governed by public law and therefore they are covered by the Woo. At special universities, and if we see it well at the entire HBO and MBO, and at an important part of p.o. And vo, plays a big difference. In hospitals you see the same thing: you have a number of academic public hospitals and all private healthcare institutions on the other hand. I work at the Free University myself. It doesn't belong to the Wob, it doesn't belong to the Woo. Our colleagues from a few kilometres away, from the University of Amsterdam, are covered. My group understands the legal reasoning, but it considers this an unfortunate aspect of the Wob and regrets that it continues in the Woo. What is the substance of the matter, so I ask the initiators and the government, not what legal rule, but what interest is it in maintaining this distinction? Is it still in line with the spirit of the Open Government Act? What are the possibilities within the Dutch state-law relationship to bring the obligation of transparency materially into line between the different institutions within these sectors, either in one direction or in the other? If this question is a little too complex for today to clarify here and now, then we ask the government whether it is prepared to examine these possibilities and to inform us about them. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The Public Administration Act was an important step towards greater transparency. The Open Government Act leads to significant improvements. We'll support it, but it's not enough. That is why we would like to get more views on signing and implementing the Tromsø Convention. This provides clarity on the grounds of exception and more insight into substantively corresponding legislation for the Caribbean Netherlands and for the health and education sectors, for example. I look forward to the answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Ganzevoort. Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u5	I have a question for Mr Ganzevoort about his comment on the Treaty of Tromsø. We ourselves asked questions about it in the preparation. You are now asking clearly: are there really any technical objections as to why this could not be done? If they are not there or are not convincing, can I see here that you will perhaps table a proposal, a motion or something else to call on on behalf of this Chamber to ratify it and to join it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u6	We are, of course, very much in favour of that happening. To be honest, I still hope that we will get a commitment from the government, but if the government needs some encouragement, I will certainly consider it. It's gonna have to turn out in the response in a minute. But I'm definitely considering making a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u7	If that is the case, we will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Ganzevoort. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u10	Mr. Chairman. It is not good with the public administration in the Netherlands. Research by RTL News at the beginning of this year showed that the government in 68% of all Wob requests did not meet the mandatory deadline for disclosure. In 68% of cases the government violates its own rules. And in 58% of the cases, what the government produces, whether too late or not, also proves to be incorrect or incomplete. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Surcharges affair strongly considered the disclosure of governance. I quote: 'Transparency, openness and completeness are in practice not the guiding principles in the government'. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we have a problem with public administration and the provision of information from the public authorities is crystal clear. That's serious. Today we are discussing a possible solution, namely the Open Government Act, the Initiative Act or the Woo. First of all, welcome and appreciation for the defenders of the initiative law, Mr Snels and Mr Sneler, who are here on behalf of the House of Representatives. An initiative law requires perseverance; that is what you have now experienced. At the same time, as far as we are concerned, it is significant that this issue, public administration, should be the initiative of the Chamber and not from the cabinet. The goal of De Woo is to make the government more transparent. That is a noble goal that we support. However, I would like to tell you that my group has serious doubts about this law. Is the Woo the cure that cures the sick patient? Or is it but a tissue for bleeding? The problem of a government that actively counteracts disclosure is not solved by this law. In fact, today's Wob, which is to replace this Woo, already provides to some extent a good legislative framework for public administration. What really matters is how the law is interpreted, how it is handled and what sanctions are imposed on non-compliance with the law. When we look at the Wob, we're not very hopeful. The principle of bypassing and training the Wob has been internalised by the government over the past decades, by directors who have introduced an administrative culture in the Netherlands that actively counteracts disclosure if it is better for political reasons. The "government culture." The word has fallen, and it is already the theme in The Hague today. The leading administrative culture in the Netherlands in terms of public access is currently one of Wobstructie's. There is an atmosphere of: we do not want it, we do not cooperate and we organize around it. For the successor of the Wob, the Woo, there is a threat of "window dressing." It's a law full of good intentions, that's for sure, but if you don't change the underlying problematic governance culture, the Woo in this form will also turn out to be an empty shell. For a change of heart is really more necessary. Let me give you a current example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u11	I'm listening with interest. 68% is, of course, dramatic. But could I say to Mr van der Linden that a government or a culture of administration could act differently by tilting the regulation that has been put in place to make such an order in law? You actually make an easy transition from the Wob to the Woo, but it is a fundamentally different starting point. Couldn't it also help in the tilting of culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u12	I think that can certainly help, but there has been a certain leading culture for decades. The question is whether this Woo, where the sanctioning is best mild, helps. I'll be there soon. The balance may be that the penalty for non-compliance with the Wob or the Woo is not bad enough and does not outweigh the other interests served by it. Then I wonder if the Woo is going to be an improvement, but there are elements in it, such as active disclosure and other matters, which will of course contribute. Mr. Chairman. An up-to-date example: the recent salami tactics that the ministry of VWS, Minister De Jonge, deliberately applied. VWS had devised its own way to deal with Wob requests about the integral covid policy. The Ministry itself made a division into subjects and published requested documents on this subject in stages through partial publications. The Ministry did not assess every Wob request submitted at a time, as it should be, but determined itself when it made public what documents on the corona policy. The Minister's statement was toe-curious: it is crisis time and therefore it is not justified for these staff to put their time and capacity in the handling of the Wob requests; they must be in the process of fighting the crisis. Do you know who was in crisis time when they received compelling requests for recovery of tens of thousands of euros? With the victims of the supplemental affair. Did they get a delay and time for the government to sort it out? No. They had to provide coûte que coûte information. If not, the government aggravated their crisis. That was the practice. The example of VWS has just illustrated the cultural problem that prevails within the government. Directors regularly have a hand in presenting a false contradiction, namely the contradiction of effective governance on the one hand and transparency on the other, as if it were biting each other. We believe that in a well-functioning public democracy these two things go hand in hand. It is precisely in times of crisis that we are dealing with far-reaching measures that it is important to adhere to and to adhere to our own legal frameworks. With great power comes great responsibility. When government restricts freedoms, sets aside fundamental rights and exerts enormous power over citizens, it is precisely then that the government should have the will to actively account for all the considerations underlying them in the most open manner. Following this display by the Ministry of VWS, the judge ticked on VWS and ordered the Ministry to behave in accordance with the Wob. What was the administrative reflex on that? The Minister appealed to the court three weeks ago and again stood before Nieuwsuur. In three weeks, the verdict will follow. That's the state of our governance culture. The government is litigating against the media in order not to have to be transparent. My first question to the initiators is whether it might not be a bit naive to think that the Woo will change that. This question is a little along the lines of the interruption just now. Can they reflect on this current example of VWS and how they think this would go under the Woo and whether the Woo contributes to a solution? My first question to the Minister is: what does the Minister think that the VNG, the IPO and the Union of Water Councils are not covered by the scope of the Woo? That question is somewhat along the lines of what Mr Ganzevoort just said about universities. We understand that they are private associations. That's not the point. But they are very specific authorities with only government leaders, who rely on taxpayers' money. My question is: is the Minister prepared to send a call to these boards and their members and challenge them to commit voluntarily to the Wob or the Woo? We are considering a motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u13	An interesting question from Mr Van der Linden. I would like to ask him an in-depth question. If these directors act as alderman, deputy, etcetera, within a platform or an organization as established within the IPO or otherwise, they are already covered by this bill as a result of their function? As a result, the documents relating to this activity are in principle public. Do you agree with me? Is it still necessary to push the ground towards the organizations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u14	I agree with Mr Van Hattem. If an alderman of a municipality or a deputy of a province acts in that role, a Wob request may be submitted to the municipality or to the province. That must be honored. The activities of these sub-organisations or associations and what they do as a whole are excluded. There are no active requests from residents or journalists about them. We understand that these are private-law associations and that this works technically, but we do find that unsatisfactory. We'd really like them to be subject to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u15	I'm just thinking out loud. I hear there's a motion coming up. Is there any possibility of making a distinction between the organisation and the public task they perform, and making it subject to the requirement of public access?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u16	I think so. The motion is not yet complete, but if you want to take part, we can write it down. Let's wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u17	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u18	Perhaps a commitment will suffice. Mr. Chairman. Then international. I've just dealt with the domestic state of public administration. I would also like to focus briefly on the international context. Internationally, the Netherlands is not very good at it either. The Global Right to Information Ranking is an international ranking that has been comparing the strength of legal frameworks for the right to information around the world since 2011. The Netherlands is a bit dangling in that. The Netherlands is in that ranking in a poor 73rd place. Two places ahead of us are Romania and right behind us Burkina Faso. My second question to the initiators is therefore the following. The GRI Ranking assumes the law. Did the initiators test the Woo against that ranking? What is the effect of Woo, if adopted, on the location of the Netherlands in the GRI index? Does the Netherlands then make a leap up and play along with the prizes, or is it going to be a round of after-competition against Belarus and Tajikistan? On a European scale, Woo is not exactly the model of ambition in terms of deadlines for handling requests for disclosure. In Sweden, for example, a request for disclosure must be answered within 24 hours. In Denmark, the deadline is seven working days, eight days in Slovakia and five days in Estonia. According to the Woo we are discussing today, a period of four weeks is set in the Netherlands. Four weeks: that's the picket pole of the new governance culture. I have a question for the initiators. Is this really the level of ambition that we want to radiate as the Netherlands? Even Hungary, which is often criticised here, is twice as ambitious as we are, with a deadline of 15 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u19	The term refers to Sweden's example. That is what we have seen in our preparation. If you compare the deadlines, will it not make sense to look at what exactly should be published within these deadlines? In Sweden's example, I understand that these are only official documents, and not all other underlying documents such as those affected by this law. If it's just the official documents, it might be easy to do within 24 hours. My question is again whether, when you talk about deadlines, you should not at the same time talk about which documents should be revealed exactly within those deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u20	That is, of course, a valid point, that is true. You can't compare it one-on-one. That is also apparent from the answer given by that State. But the general point I want to make is that four weeks does not seem to us to be particularly ambitious. That's a long time. Our question to the initiators is therefore whether that is the level of ambition that we want to radiate. Or do they see opportunities, for example, in the coming years, to say that perhaps in the coming years we can reduce that to two weeks, a week or something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u21	I am glad that Mr Van der Linden says that it is indeed important that what is published is taken into account. I very much agree with Mr Van der Linden that there should be urgency when a request for disclosure is made. But is it not true, as I ask Mr Van der Linden, that what is made public should also be careful? If you would necessarily go for 24 or 48 hours, people will get the pieces, but then they may be incomplete and careless, so that it is rather the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u22	Again, there is the risk that we will create a false contradiction, namely that speed and care are at odds with each other. Eventually, with such a law, you want to radiate ambition. That must be done quickly and, of course, carefully. And, of course, digital information must be in order to meet such deadlines. So no, it should not be at the expense of care, but in the end we should radiate the ambition of significantly shortening the term and maintaining the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u23	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u24	With that last remark that we must radiate ambition and maintain care, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u25	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u26	If you already have a four-week period of time, at least you expect sanctions if those deadlines are not met. However, we do not see that in this Woo yet. The law looks pretty flexible in the event of a violation. That is strange, given that in almost 70% of cases the deadline is already not being met. In order to reverse that, that was just the first interruption of the operation, a sanction must hurt, so that that consideration is made differently. Now we are dealing with a new law with a four-week period, without harsh sanctions if it is not passed. My question to the initiators is: is this the weapon to counter the governance culture of the past decades? Or are we talking here, to quote Professor of State and Administrative Law, Mr Voermans, about a Woo who is actually toothless and even less strict than the Wob? How do the initiators see that? Mr. Chairman. Our objections may be clear. It's really hard for us to consider what to do with this law. I look forward to the answers of the initiators, in the hope that they can convince us. We're critical. We assume that this law is not going to bring about the desired change, but it is going to do so. Reality shows that, without strict letters on paper, the government will find a way to circumvent real disclosure. We're afraid of that. The letter of the law is then subordinated to the spirit of the administrative culture. The instrument that would work is a law with harsh sanctions for non-compliance with agreements, a law that punishes drivers if they are deliberately not transparent, a law that hurts, and a law whose non-compliance is more detrimental than avoiding it with all kinds of tricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u27	That puts you at the end of your speech? Would you like to finish? Looks like you're almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u28	Sure, I have one last paragraph. We want a law that exhales in everything that we like to inform society about what we are doing, why we are doing it and how we are doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u29	I know very well what Mr Van der Linden says. In my own words: does it go far enough? Doesn't it get toothless? Doesn't the ruling government, the government in a broad sense, find all kinds of ways to get around it or make it toothless? Those are recognizable questions. In this context, I am still looking forward to his reflection on, for example, the rules on the Council of State and disclosure. Would it not be very helpful for us, as representatives of the people, to see in good time those opinions which the government might not have liked to see?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u30	That's absolutely true. That's a political point, that disclosure. This applies at all to the principle of active disclosure. This is, of course, true of the budget and of the organization of the information system. That's all good. By the way, we think that the latter, the release of money to put the digital archives in order, could also have been under the Wob. But these are indeed advantages and we must weigh them against the risk that it may be a toothless whole. We like to hear the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for answering in detail the many questions in two rounds. We have now reached the final stage of a long legislative process. After all, the original initiative proposal, which at the time was called the New Public Administration Act, was already submitted in 2012 by the Dutch MP Peters van GroenLinks. I include her and those who shared responsibility for the proposal in the intervening period, in my appreciation of the work done. Mr. Chairman. Despite this long process, the objective of the Open Government Act, the Woo, which must replace the Public Administration Act, the Wob, remained intact: a transparent and active publicising government. The PvdA Group very much agrees with that objective. We agree with the great importance of the duty of active disclosure of government documents, albeit with the understandable exceptions, and of the organization of the information system of these authorities. The long period between 2012 and now shows that this goal has not been formulated until recently, after the report on the terrible child allowance affair. But that affair again demonstrates its necessity with great urgency. Nevertheless, despite the long period that has passed and the many questions that have been answered, the PvdA still has the necessary concerns and questions, both to the proposers and to the government. Hopefully this debate will help to remove these concerns. First of all, a question to the government which is directly related to the objectives of these legislative proposals and, as has already been mentioned, the Convention, the Council of Europe's Tromsø Convention, which was already agreed in 2009 and which has still not been signed by the Netherlands. That treaty has as its core consideration, and I quote in English: 'that all official documents are in principle public and can be withheld subject only to the protection of other rights and legitimate interests'. The Netherlands was the initiator of that treaty, but then did not sign it. Can the Minister state what, when the present legislative proposals are adopted, are the substantive objections to the signing of this Convention? And can it also confirm that the present legislative proposals are not contrary to that Treaty of Tromsø? Mr. Chairman. Before I go into some more details of the legislative proposals, I would like to ask the proposers and the Minister to reflect on the following more general questions. Dilemmas, if you like. Transparency is often seen as an end in itself nowadays. That is also the case with this law. A transparent and active publicising government is the goal. But can the initiators and the minister explain again why this is an objective? Does this have to do with the desire to contribute to the citizens' ability to live a dignified life by enabling them to ring the bell in good time when there is something wrong with the public information system? Or does it have to do with the aim of enabling a sound system of power and counter-power, which serves the democratic rule of law? Or with the idea of giving companies and organisations the opportunity to respond to changing policies in good time, by having all the considerations that have led to them? Transparency is, after all, an objective, but an intermediate objective. What is the ultimate purpose of these legislative proposals? A second reflection concerns the tension that can exist between the duty of active and passive disclosure and the proper functioning of public services. Can this duty lead to avoidance, which puts the horse behind the cart? For example, because employees no longer take personal notes, or call each other or go out for a walk instead of whatsaping or e-mailing each other? Does this obligation to disclose not lead to the risk that government staff will try to leave as little traces as possible, so that transparency will show, in particular, emptiness later on? How did the initiators take this dilemma into account in their proposals? And how does the Minister view this issue? Another dilemma is actually the counterpart of the previous one, namely how to prevent a huge stream of actively published government documents from making it almost impossible for individual citizens to find relevant information. That is what I am asking both the proposers and the minister. In other words, how does this citizen find the pin of information that is relevant to him or her in a haystack of information created by governments? How will the government, when this bill is passed, guide citizens in that information mountain? How does it take account of the capacity of different citizens? For another administrative culture, only transparency is insufficient. A different, more humane attitude of the government towards its citizens, including in informing those citizens, is part of this. I would also like to hear the reflections of the authors and minister on these latter questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u33	I agree with many of Mr Koole's objections and comments, but I do have a question on this last point about how the citizen finds information. Citizens can also google. They can scramble the entire Internet for information. I think all layers of society can do that. Is this really a real danger if all the information is disclosed so that people can search for themselves? We also have media that can help them and people in the area who can help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u34	If only those citizens could do all that easily. Some citizens can do that very well. If they have the means and the capacity to perhaps engage others who can do that well, then they are well off. But there are also people who can do that a little less well. The WRR has issued a report on citizens' capacity to act. There's just a group in this society that can do that less easily. I'm talking about those civilians. These are citizens who might want to know something at some point, who are faced with a huge haystack of information and say 'I can't find it at all', and who are therefore leaving it hanging. So my question is: how can you by actively publishing this bill, which is a good thing, at the same time, help the citizens who may need it to find their way into that actively published information and also into other information?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u35	Even sharper: those people in their environment have people who can help with that, or the media, when it comes to big business, who can also do research? Isn't this the way this is gonna help?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u36	I hope that Mr van der Linden is right that everyone has the resources, the resources, and the tools to take that kind of action. But that report from the WRR has made it clear to me, and there are other reports on the subject that this does not apply to everyone. That is what my question is based on. Mr. Chairman. A next block of questions is about the concepts used. My group has already asked many questions about this in the written rounds. That has already been clarified, for which I would like to thank you once again. But a bill on transparency could be expected to excel in clarity. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. That is not always the responsibility of the proposers. Take Article 5.2, third paragraph, of the consolidated version, which has been added by the Van der Molen amendment. It refers to 'formal administrative decision-making', while the bill also refers to the Wob, which talks about 'governance', and to Article 1:3, paragraph 1, of the AWB, which refers to a 'decision' as a written decision of an administrative body. In response to our questions, the proposers say that the term "formal administrative decision-making" in Article 5.2, third paragraph, refers to all decisions taken by the administrative bodies referred to in that paragraph in relation to their public tasks. They continue: "It follows that the term "decisions" has an administrative meaning rather than the legal meaning of Article 1:3 Awb." Can you still follow it? Does not every provision in a law have a legal meaning, I ask the proposers. The same additional paragraph of Article 5.2 talks about decision-making by, among other things, a Minister, Deputy States and the College of B and W, but also by a deputy and an alderman. But the last two are not administrative bodies, while the Woo does focus on administrative bodies. Yes, the alderman and the deputy are part of an administrative board. Would it not have been desirable, for clarity's sake, to work with a clear conceptual framework in a law, certainly a law aimed at transparency? It is also strange that the list in paragraph 3 of that Article 5.2 does not mention the waterboards. In response to a question about this, the initiators say that they do not see a good reason not to include the waterboards, but yes, that did not happen. That is why we have asked the Minister to prepare, after possible adoption of this bill, an amendment which includes the waterboards in Article 5.2, third paragraph. The Minister's answer is rather strange. The aim of that third paragraph is that the substantive considerations underlying formal administrative decision-making should be transparent and that this applies in particular to administrative bodies which are politically accountable to democratically elected bodies on policy and legislation, the Minister said. So far, so good. But then the Minister continues: "These considerations play a lesser role in waterboards." Now my clog breaks, I'd almost like to say. In times when the waterboards themselves feel that their importance has increased mainly because of the climate crisis and they have had democratically elected bodies for a quarter of a century, there is no reason not to include the waterboards in that Article 5.2 (3)? So I ask the Minister whether she agrees with the proposers that there is no good reason not to include the water boards. And can it still undertake to prepare, after the possible adoption of this bill, an amendment which includes the waterboards in Article 5.2 (3)? Mr. Chairman. Also outside Article 5.2 (3), questions can be asked about the precise, understood meaning of concepts. It's full of notions in this bill. I'm gonna limit myself here to two of them. The first is the term "environmental information" referred to in Article 2.1. There is a reference to Article 19.1a of the Environmental Management Act. This is a rather comprehensive and open definition, which is underlined by Article 5.1 (6) and (7). For example, paragraph 7 states that exceptions to disclosure, which there are of course, do not apply to environmental information relating to emissions into the environment. Recourse to the security of the State or to the confidentiality of business information communicated confidentially to the State may not be made. I'm sure the people around Tata Steel will be happy about that. My question to the authors and the Minister is whether my interpretation of these articles is correct and whether, more generally, they consider that the provision of environmental data in the context of the Woo should be as broad as possible in accordance with the comprehensive and open definition used. The second term is the term "equipped at." This is also mentioned in Article 2.1, when reference is made to 'documents'. The debate on what to mean by "documents" has been extensive. I therefore confine myself here to the question to the authors: when is a document available to an administrative body? Does this mean that this can only be about documents placed in the information system managed by the administrative authority? So as long as a document, an investigation report, a WhatsAppbericht or an official note is not included in that information system, does this document not belong to this government body? If this rather limited interpretation of "restored" would apply, how do you prevent relevant information from being "woo-able," so to speak, simply because it was never deliberately included in the information system? And if a document is not in that system but should have been in it, is the government body obliged to actively search for that document after a Woo request, for example by requesting it outside the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u37	Mr Koole has an interesting explanation of that concept. But wouldn't it be strange, in the spirit of this bill, if the register had disappeared and it was decisive if it had been included in what is to be called PLOOI? I looked at the site once. PLOOI has concept 1 in February. I can hardly imagine that the entry into service of this tool would be decisive for what you are now assuming, but I would like to hear that from the proposers. Then it would go back even further than the Wob, because then you would make it dependent on a tool. I can hardly imagine that in the spirit of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u38	If that were the case, I can't imagine it either, but I'm taking the information systems a little wider than just PLOOI. They are information systems that are present in each of the government organisations and are attached to PLOOI if they are to be made actively public. So there's a lot more there. I think I share Mr Backer's concerns, but my question is that it is not going to be said in practice: 'We have now rigged up a fantastic information system. That's what we're gonna promote. Over the years, this has been achieved. That's hanging from PLOOI. Altogether fantastic. And that's it. If it's not in there, that's too bad!" I'd be very sorry to hear that. I want to make it clear that that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u39	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u40	Mr. Chairman. I said I got to my last set of questions. Last week, from the VNG and the IPO, we received a note supporting the bill, but also expressing their concerns about the short-term feasibility, in particular of the Platform Open Public Sector Information, PLOOI. We just talked about that. In this context, documents under the Woo must be actively made public. The domes fear that this platform will not be sufficiently developed in the short term. They also lack a connection strategy for PLOOI. Can the Minister promise that the Woo will not go ahead for decentralised and other public bodies rather than after PLOOI has been sufficiently developed and there is a clear connection strategy? Can it clarify the current situation with regard to PLOOI? Following the cabinet response to the report on the childcare allowance affair, PLOOI is also used, for example, for the publication of internal government decision notes. That puts extra pressure on PLOOI. As of 1 July, a start would be made on actively publishing underlying departmental notes on documents sent to Parliament. Can the Minister state what has been achieved so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u41	Mr Koole is right to ask when PLOOI is going to work enough to make this work. I understand his question as to whether this law should enter into force even if PLOOI is not yet in order. Doesn't Mr Koole fear that some kind of chicken egg discussion might arise? If we slow down PLOOI a little bit, we will de facto delay the Open Government Act. In other words, I share his wish that the PLOOI should be put in place, but should you not also set a deadline? Because if we don't, we're gonna slow down the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u42	I agree with Mr Ganzevoort that a delay in one should not automatically lead to an additional delay in the other, the law. But on the other hand, as soon as the law enters into force, I understand that different parts can go in at different times. You want that to happen in a way that works. In other laws, we also pay very much attention to the feasibility. Is the underlying digital system able to carry it? That is the question that is being raised here. It is not a plea to justify a postponement of the operation of the law, but to speed up a well-functioning PLOOI and a connection strategy so that governments know how to deal with it. As far as I'm concerned, it's not about delay. The question to the Minister is precisely to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u43	If that means asking the Minister not only for clarity but also for speed, then I fully share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u44	That is certainly true: clarity and speed. That is the question to the Minister regarding PLOOI. Finally. I cannot ignore it in these times: a question about the cabinet formation. Article 5.4 of the Woo states that information held by the informant is not public until the formation is completed. In reply to our questions, applicants say that the information of explorers is included, although this has not proved to be a guarantee that it will not be on the streets. Moreover, the Second Chamber may request information in the interim on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution. My question to the authors is: can information which rests with the informant but which is also present in departments be obtained from those departments via the Woo during a cabinet formation? In other words, the fact that the informant also has certain information cannot be a reason not to provide it via Woo if it is also based on public bodies. We look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u45	Thank you, Mr Koole. Mr Rombouts has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u46	Do you know what the definition of a camel is? That's a horse designed by a committee. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing respect for the commitment and perseverance of the successive initiators in their efforts to make public authorities more transparent, as it says in the documents, in order to better serve the importance of public information disclosure for the democratic rule of law. In the written consultation I expressed concerns on behalf of the CDA Group about the end result of the efforts of the initiators. Now you have to come from a good house to declare yourself against any proposal to increase the transparency of the government. And yet my group is very much considering doing so next Tuesday at the vote on this bill. That is what we are doing, because this Chamber, however sympathetic a proposal may be, has primarily to assess the quality and feasibility of the legislation. If we look at the history of this proposal, let us not be surprised that we had to think for a moment about the committee that was eagerly trying to design a horse. Not one committee, but no less than eight different initiators have worked on the draft of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u47	Do you know what the characteristic characteristic of a camel is? That's that he has to go through a thirsty desert land and he needs moisture to survive there. As far as I am concerned, the desire for moisture would be a better symbolism of this law: the search for transparency and information to gain visibility and not to drown out in a desert of governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u48	Thank you very much for these biology lessons, my dear colleague. Let me however adduce why I had to think so much about that definition of a camel. It's a joke, of course. We all know that. Some of us have heard that joke before. So in nine years, eight different initiators in six different compositions of duos and singles have worked on a proposal, which is now here in the end. It started with the original proposal in 2012, which was replaced by an amended proposal in 2016. After such an expert meeting in our First Chamberroom, in which some of us were present, a resulting impact analysis, and strong consultation between the government and the initiators or vice versa, a novelle saw the light in 2019. That's how the desired horse got the shape of a camel. So it is no wonder that both friend and enemy of this initiative proposal are critical to very critical of the final product that is now before us. It may be that the House of Representatives has agreed almost unanimously, but here in this Chamber we have a different responsibility in our state system. Then my group cannot ignore the sharp criticism from the scientific community and the intrusive advice of the Council of State. Experts acknowledge that this initiative has started with the best intentions. We can endorse that, too. However, there have gradually been serious doubts about the usefulness and necessity of this exercise. It is doubtful whether the Open Government Act adds anything. I still represent experts from the scientific community, but also the Council of State when I say that incorruptible procedures are expected on the interpretation of the new rules. It is for the experts but the question is whether with this law I belong to the same doubt here among several speakers: active disclosure and a change in the administrative culture. Let alone limit the number of exceptions to the rules and reduce the cost to the citizen seeking information. Some experts therefore speak of a dragon of a law that is not going to solve the problems. Mr. Chairman. If a top expert as Professor Voermans fears that this legislation will cause great confusion, should we in the First Chamber not even be scratching our ears? And if the Council of State warns us that the changes in the novelle have led to an even more complex disclosure regime, which can no longer be understood by citizens, and that administrative bodies also pose problems in determining whether or not a document should be made public, should we not make a pass in this Chamber of reflection? In spite of their noble intentions, which I repeat my group supports, the initiators have given birth to a camel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u49	Mr Rombouts, like his colleagues here in the Chamber, brings up a lot of experts. According to one of these experts, this law would cause a lot of confusion. Now I've taught all my students that the fact that you just say, "I got it from an expert," so that's an authority argument, that's not an argument. So you have to repeat the expert's arguments, and that is why I wanted to ask Mr Rombouts the following. If he cites the expert who says that this bill leads to great confusion, can he indicate why, according to that expert, or according to Mr Rombouts himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u50	I was about to, but then you interrupted me. In fact, I do not have to answer you, because I am going to mention a dozen objections, but I have heard dozens of them from you. So my call is to scratch us firmly behind the ear today and next week and think. I just said in my last sentence: no matter how sympathetic and noble the intentions, which are fully endorsed by the CDA Group, are; if the effect is such that it becomes a tragedy for administrative bodies and the citizen really can't handle it anymore, and if you have to be a specialized lawyer to understand that law, then I hope, in the end, that we can convince each other in this debate that there is a better way forward. I am considering tabling a motion for that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u51	So the answer follows?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u52	The real answer to Mr Koole's question is that the intended Open Government Act has become unnecessarily complicated by all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u53	Just a minute. Will you continue your speech now? I understood just now that you said that the answer to Mr Koole was contained in the follow-up to your speech. So then would...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u54	I'm actually reading what I'd like to say, because that's for the best...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u55	...for the sake of time, I would suggest that you continue your speech and that Mr Koole wait a moment. Then I'll turn the clock back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u56	The proposed Open Government Act has become unnecessarily complicated by all the amendments. That is what the experts say, but that is how I repeat them, because I have, of course, studied it all for years, as you have. In the words of the Council of State, which are not small words, this has become a law that has become very complex. It is a complex disclosure system, a hybrid advisory college, a contradiction in the law itself. You yourself have given several examples of this. I don't have to convince you. You know it yourself. You're an expert, too. Rules on rules, exceptions to exceptions, and detailed lists. Which documents should be actively made public? The risk is that whatever is not on the list will not be released passively. The list says what you should actively release, but if the document is not on it, we run the risk that governments will not be willing to release it passively. Only specialized lawyers can yet understand what this new system is like, and they too will argue with the administrative judge about the interpretation of this regulation. I quote again the Council of State 'further specified and finer regulations'. Why, for example, is the question from the CDA Group to these initiators and to this minister, are we making it as difficult as it can be much easier? The Public Administration Act is, of course, an old law, from 1980. It's a little law, but it's a clear law. It's not that complicated. There wasn't much wrong with the lyrics. It has gone wrong, and I say this to Mr van der Linden, after all, in the handling of the law, in the culture and the fear that directors had of releasing things. Why don't we review this law in the short term to make some adjustments and why don't we look at it later too, because a lot of work has already been done on the good examples from abroad? It will then become clear that we do not need more and more detailed rules at all, but that we need to invest in two things: in people and in technology, in a new administrative culture, so think of the Van Dam Committee and the supplementing affair, and in a good system for the information system of the government. We can learn from the European Commission, because they have done a fantastic job. I was allowed to work with that myself. Anyone can access that very quickly. We can also learn from Sweden. I am speaking to Mr Koole that Sweden is not showing everything. We are showing much more about documents, but the system is well established there and we can learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u57	I can also endorse Mr Rombouts' comments. He states that he does share the concerns about the administrative culture. Over the past decades he has also been a person with the necessary experience in a particular administrative culture, perhaps. I have just mentioned the example of the VWS Ministry, in which a minister actively opposed disclosure on covid policy. It's a crisis and then the disclosure can be in the trash can. Would he like to reflect on that example? What does he think about the health minister saying: sorry, it's crisis, so I don't make the documents public and I go on appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u58	I don't like how things had to be like this, but I can understand it. 'Cause we just didn't get along very well. I've learned a lot of lessons in my administrative life, including from damage and shame. I beat the crap out of myself to say that I too didn't always earn the top prize with that Act of Public Administration. But I learned this: if you want to be successful, if you want something to work, you have to take care of two things as a driver. You need to put the good people on it, and you need to get enough money so they can do what needs to be done. In my opinion, what is needed here is for us to build a good system so that you can find things quickly and easily. I am going to submit a motion to this Chamber in the second term, in which that is something like that. Then it is no longer necessary to look for it for four weeks, or much longer, as the Minister of Health needed to find something somewhere. And you're gonna have to have good people who understand the Public Administration Act. That's what's missing today. You used to have that much more, even in Den Bosch, the congregation I served. Those were people who immediately understood: yes, you just have to make this public and you don't have to make that public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u60	Now I'm getting a little confused. I first heard statements of adhesion for the criticism of the administrative culture, but now that I am asking about the situation on VWS, there is actually evidence of force majeure: our systems are not in order. Can you then give some examples of where the governance culture is not good? You say it's ICT, but that's a completely different argument. I agree with that, but that is a very different argument than that the administrative culture is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u61	I think we should be able to recognise that if we do not... if we do not invest... it is big money that needs to be invested. This was also complained about during the expert meeting, by universities, hospitals and other domes, such as the IPO, the VNG and waterboards. They said it's gonna cost us so much money. If we think it is so important that we can get good and fast on government documents, there has to be a system that allows you to get to it very quickly at the push of a button. Then you don't have to wait four weeks. Because all the information from the government belongs to all of us. That's what we paid for. But you've got to have a system to get you to it. So you shouldn't have a minister who lets the civil servants look for it for weeks or months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u62	Finally, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u63	I note that there are still two definitions of a wrong administrative culture. The one I quoted in my first term was about a culture in which directors actively look for ways, supported by employees, not to make matters public. But the administrative culture that Mr Rombouts of the CDA criticizes is mainly the administrative culture of not wanting to invest in ICT systems. Well, it's a good thing it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u64	I'm just having a little jigsaw puzzle. Mr Rombouts says that the changing composition of initiators has made it far too complex. My impression is that some of the inconsistencies he points out, as Mr Koole has pointed out, are rather due to amendment and the whole political process surrounding it. That is just how we do it in the Netherlands, in my opinion, namely that we seek the consensus in it. If that is still consistent enough, the question I would like to ask is. That there are questions about it, I get it. I had it myself. But I think the puzzle is also whether we can see that a step further is being taken here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u65	Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u66	Maybe one more question, Mr. Chairman. You rightly interrupt me because otherwise I will talk too long, but he is talking about the desirability of perhaps evaluating the Wob first. Hasn't that ever happened since 1980?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u67	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u68	I think, among other things, in 2003. An evaluation was carried out in 2003-2004.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u69	It will be, but I have listened carefully to the experts and I repeat that a law has been created here partly because of the urge to regulate it even better, but also because of a kind of fear and mistrust, because otherwise administrators would not be willing to give things. But it becomes so fine-meshed, so specialized, except for exception and rule on rule, and very hybrid and detailed arranged that for very few people there is still a rope to tie to. If you want a piece, you should actually take a lawyer to find it. Here's what I'm advocating. Then I would also like to involve Mr Van der Linden in this interruption. It's two things. It is about the technology and the mentality of the drivers. It's up to us, to the government, to invest in technology. The mentality is a process for which we must take time together to do so differently. Then the odds after the supplemental affair seem bigger than ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u70	I think we can agree on that technique, that it is necessary. Mr Koole has also asked for this. We agree on that, so that's not the question. We want to encourage that desired governance culture. The only question is whether we, as a people's representative, are contributing to this. Because we're here to check. I mention, for example, the element of active disclosure, which is a different step from the one we had in the WOB. Does that contribute to the desired governance culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u71	Yeah, but writing in a law that we need to make something active public doesn't mean it's happening. Our belief in laws and initiatives is far too great. Look at what senior officials in the NRC told us last night about what we are all thinking and, in particular, on the other side, it is thought that you can work something out without being aware of the feasibility of legislation. I think it is our job, of lawyers such as yourself, Mr Koole, others here in the Chamber and myself to take us on board and say: are we sure that if we stack more rules together, then we will be able to achieve this active disclosure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u72	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort. You're a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u73	PhD just got promoted. Thank you for that. However, without this active disclosure being legally anchored, we do not know it either. So my question is whether this would not at least be progress on those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u74	A brief answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u75	It's a noble intention, but we don't believe in it, with the Council of State saying it literally. It says it cannot be believed that the principles of the Open Government Act are brought closer by this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u76	First of all, a statement. I have also read the opinion of the Council of State and in the end it is decided that if a number of changes are taken over, the legislative proposal can be considered by the proposers. However, what I have great difficulty with is Mr Rombouts' disqualifying language, which I do not really know him by describing as a camel or a committee the complicated parliamentary process which he himself took part in in 2016. A parliamentary process is not a committee; the joke is of course fun but the underlying communication is ultimately disqualifying. And I regret that. Then there is my second comment. If you see that it has been such a complicated parliamentary process, what is the magic of the Rombouts motion that has already been announced, which is about to change this complicated matter as magic, if a complicated parliamentary process has brought us to this point? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u77	Lawyers like to make laws and make rules. I think it is also up to this Chamber with lawyers and non-lawyers to think about whether rules will ultimately get us where we want to go. That definition was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u78	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u79	That wasn't my joke. I used it. But what I've been talking about isn't a joke at all. I think this is a very serious matter. My group has been considering its position for months to vote against this. This is the result of the criticism that was heard very strongly in the room of the First Chamber in the old building, asking for an impact analysis. Then we have read all the documents carefully and we have consulted scientists over the last few months, who say to us: better in half than in total error. And that's what I'm telling colleagues here. If I cannot convince you, that is a pity, but I hope you will consider my arguments and not just the word 'camel'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u80	Of course we will. We'll make that assessment, too. But I hit that point. You have said the necessary things. The CDA Group in the House of Representatives has tabled amendments, has also supported amendments from the SGP and has thus taken part in the parliamentary work. And I would so hope that all taken together can count on an open assessment of this law on your part. Anyway, we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u81	What does the interrupter say, Mr. Chairman? That if the D66 Group in the House of Representatives voted in favour, it should happen here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u82	The Interrupt says that the parliamentary process in which groups have participated should be assessed to its full value. Then you can always come to another consideration. And that's what your partymates participated in. We have sometimes voted differently. We know that from each other. I also know that your group has once supported a bill on the criminality crack, the Van Toorenburg initiative law. That bill was described by all the experts as unworkable, but you did support it. That's what I wanted to close up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u83	Perhaps a point of clarification. When a law is tabled and a political group submits an amendment to improve that law, that still does not mean that you should vote for the law. It cannot be said here: a group voted in favour of an amendment to the SGP and then it will be fine. Usually it gets better, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u84	I suggest you continue your argument, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u85	Mr. Chairman. We have three arguments for strongly considering voting against next week, so we are definitely still listening to the response by the initiators and the minister, in two instalments. We have three arguments. The first is the history of being born, which does not deserve the beauty prize, to say it very kindly. Two. The serious criticism from the scientific community and the great doubt of the Council of State. Because one of the interrupters did say that the Council of State would eventually approve of a few changes, but those who read through the rules read heavy criticism from the Council of State. Our third point is a point of principle, Mr President. Let us dare to recognise that transparency is not an end in itself, but a means of exercising democratic control. A completely transparent world is a world in which you and I do not want to live. A completely transparent government is also an illusion. There should be room for informal consultation between directors, and officials should be able to safely share their personal policy views with their minister or their alderman. If any kind of contradiction of an official against his minister or alderman is likely to be made public, this will lead to the search of detours and roads, or to the failure to give a negative opinion. That's not supposed to happen, is it? This is detrimental to the administration of our country, central and decentralised. Ceterum Censeo, and by the way, I believe that apps and text messages should no longer be covered by the definition of documents. What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u86	Would you not like to take part in the debate from the Chamber, Mr Van der Burg? We can do that from the interrupting microphone. The people at home cannot follow it, and constitutionally they must be able to. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u87	I still have a question about Mr Rombouts' third argument. That was about an alderman or a mayor having a meeting with a policy officer and he would then give a critical advice and that would weigh a driver differently. I've been there myself, and I can't see what would be bad about it. It's okay if you get critical or negative advice and you definitely change your mind and write down your considerations for that? That's what you stand for, isn't it? I really do not see how that could lead to some sort of different culture. On the contrary, this argument gives me more doubts about Mr Rombouts' criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u88	For the last few months, the whole of the Netherlands has understood that officials hate to be in the spotlight and to see their opinions on the table with those who ask for openness. The only thing that matters is what the minister or the alderman has to stand for, not what that official has advised. As political officials, we must also grant this security so that they do not get between the wheels in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u89	Here I see a difference in administrative culture and perception. In the past, I have worked a lot with civil servants who gave different advices than I wanted as a director. And I was totally fine with that, and those officials loved it, as long as you weren't going to tell them that they had to advise x or y because you wanted to. That's the wrong governance culture. But if those officials are just taken seriously and their arguments are weighed differently... Yes, you may have experienced another official in your career, but this is exactly how it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u90	We are in complete agreement. As a director, you liked to hear the occasional no from an official. I thought so, too. You don't have to have jabs, you have to have people who have the guts to kick back. This only improves governance and improves decision-making. But we must be careful, and that is what I have said, that all these official advices must be made public, because it is a terrible blur and an insecurity organization for civil servants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u91	There are a lot of interruptions. Given the time available, I would like to ask Members to keep the interruptions brief: short questions, brief answers. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u92	I understood that Mr Rombouts had come to the end of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u93	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u94	No? Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u95	Fine. Mr. Ganzevoort does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u96	I actually agree with this point. When I hear Mr Rombouts, he seems to say: of course we want openness and transparency, but... And in the end, he gives all kinds of reasons why he doesn't want to. I don't understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u97	Would you mind saying it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u98	In the end, I hear that Mr Rombouts gives all sorts of arguments as to why he does not want to do so, especially with his last, third, principled point and with the explanation he gives. That an official's opinion would become public is not to put that official in the spotlight, but to check the driver. That's what it's about. I do not understand why Mr Rombouts can insist that he really wants transparency if he gives these arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u99	It is one of the many arguments I have mentioned. I'd like to repeat them, but those 56 seconds are really too short for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u100	That is the most fundamental point you have raised, so I think it would be a good idea for you to take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u101	No, no, no, no, no, that's not true at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u102	You said: and I have one point of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u103	This is the thirteenth, fourteenth argument I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u104	You called it "principal."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u105	Finally, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u106	No, I have a principled approach to the phenomenon of openness, transparency. This seems increasingly to be an end in itself in the discussions, and it is not. Openness is a means of making democracy work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u107	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u108	Then I do not understand why Mr Rombouts believes that the opinions of officials are not necessary to ensure this transparency in order to control the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u109	We need to make a distinction. On the one hand, there are documents which separate officials and which are useful to all as a completed administrative opinion for the purpose which Mr Ganzevoort also pursues. On the other hand, there are the drivers of civil servants. They should not all be made public in order to protect the civil servants. Anyone who demands total transparency will be given bureaucracy. Anyone who wants an excessively rigid transparency law is more detrimental to transparency than to promoting it. The House of Representatives and Municipal Councils have sufficient instruments to enforce public access. Minister and aldermen should be given or seized the opportunity to argue why a particular document should not be made public. It's better halfway back than all the way down. Did the Council of State not state in its opinion on the novelle that it is the question of whether the principles of this initiative proposal will be achieved and whether this Act will bring more openness to the public and less problems for citizens requesting information? I would like to hear the reaction of the initiators and this minister. My group would also like to hear from the initiators and the Minister whether they can give an indication of the financial and human consequences of the various authorities and semi-governments. Mr. Chairman, I've already told you that I'm considering tabling a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u111	I waited for a moment because Mr Rombouts indicated in my earlier interruption that he was going to give the arguments I asked for. I have listened and I am not quite convinced of the arguments that have been put forward. At some point, he said there were three arguments. I just heard fourteen of them, but he said earlier that there are three arguments why the CDA is considering voting against: the history of beginning, the serious criticism from science and the Council of State and the fact that transparency is not an end in itself. In my earlier interruption I asked about the serious criticism from science. It was said that scientists call it "confusional." Then I asked: give the arguments of those scientists. Why is it confusing? At the same time, Mr Rombouts said that it was also too specific and too detailed. Yes, it may be that you specify well to avoid confusion. The fact that something is specified does not mean that it is confusing. Let me repeat my question from the first interruption: can Mr Rombouts also highlight the arguments of the scientists he refers to, so that perhaps I can be persuaded by them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u112	But in a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u113	After Mr Koole's first interruption, I did so. That answer was: the intended Open Government Act has become unnecessarily complicated by all the amendments. The words of the Council of State were: complex, hybrid and contradictory. It's about different things. Point 5 was: rules on rules. Point 6 was: exceptions to exceptions. There are detailed lists of which documents should not be actively disclosed. There is a risk that things that are not on the list will not be made public passively. Making the legislation more fine and specifying the legislation is also mentioned. I mentioned the number 14, but maybe it's 10. These are the main objections. The difference between you and me is that your belief in rules is greater than that of this driver. I'm more of a driver than a politician. If we have money left for a good system and are going to promote the mentality of drivers, I believe in that more than in stacking rules on rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u114	Mr Rombouts told me that I am a follower of rules stacking rules. Rules are a means of achieving an end. I think we can agree on that. I am open to exploring whether we can make them so that the governance culture changes for the better. That's the quest we're all having here in Parliament. Transparency is a means, or an intermediate objective. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u115	Do you have another question, Mr. Koole?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u116	So my question to Mr Rombouts is: if he thinks all of this is true, why do all the points he mentions argue against the proposals in this law? The addition of a rule is not in itself positive or negative. It's about why it wouldn't be good. I still don't hear any good arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u117	Finally, Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u118	I would ask Mr Koole to listen again to his own contribution. That's the best answer I could give. He has more objections to the law than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u119	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To stay in the metaphor of the camel: we need a camel in search of an oasis of openness in a desert of black-painted documents. Will this bill be a mirage of transparency, or a real open source? That's the question. Mr. Chairman. More openness, more openness and more transparency within the government are essential and vital to our democracy. Therefore, compliments to the initiators and my predecessors for the open government bill. Our citizens have the right to openness and to have government documents effectively and without hassle. Exceptions must be clearly defined so that drivers cannot abuse such formal exceptions as a smokescreen. Unfortunately, this is all too often the case. The question is whether there will be any improvement with this bill. This proposal seeks to focus on a more open government through a mentality and culture change. Almost twenty years ago, Pim Fortuyn described in his book De debris of eight years of purple striking how the political culture in the Netherlands is confused with openness. I quote: 'An elite democracy which only partly takes place in public, but which is largely carried out through pre-cooked reflection in back rooms such as the Prime Minister's Tower. The Dutch political and administrative elite have no regard for democracy, no regard for the citizen, and this applies both to politics in a narrower sense and to civil society as a whole." Twenty years later, nothing has improved. This has only gotten worse under Rutte over the past decade. What Fortuyn already named back then is the same as the suffering now called the Ruttedoctrine. Not only information and documents on the premium affair, but also everything that has been muffled away at the Ministry of Justice, such as the ticketing affair, crime figures on asylum seekers and documents in the Wilders process, the documents on the corona approach for which a regiment of 100 additional officials had to be recruited, up to the last few days have come to light, and that is the case of the MH17 case: everything is kept under review by the government under Rutte as much and as long as possible. Often this happens under the guise of the most curved deceptions. It is only after a long and determined effort by a number of skilled journalists and after lengthy legal procedures that pieces of work occasionally come to the fore. With this poor and totally unwilling track record, there is nothing to be expected of the current rulers in this country in terms of cultural change. For a real cultural change, the namesake of the Ruttedoctrine and its consequences will have to be replaced in the first place. In order to achieve this, new elections are needed. With the present novelle as a completely undressed version of the Open Government Act, little will change in any case. The independent information commissioner, who has been subjected to some perseverance, has been demolished. The obligation to register is gone. The definition of the active disclosure of documents has been modified. The limitation of time limits has been weakened and the scope is limited. In short, what remains is a paper tiger that will become invisible as a chameleon in the paper reality of the document system of disclosure. The exceptions remain the rule. Can the initiators explain what steps are really being taken with this proposal? How do they view cultural change as the elite democracy that characterizes the current government remains at its core unwilling to become transparent and open? The important question is: what means of power do citizens and people's representatives really get to enforce this effectively? Mr. Chairman. With the current political culture of agreements that are being negotiated at consultative tables and directing tables in back rooms, our controlling task as representatives of the people is increasingly under pressure. At administrative management and consultation tables, for example on asylum reception, people's representatives have little sight. Often the King's commissioner acts as the ruler, so, for example, provincial states cannot control directly. Municipal councils are moved away because consultation is organised through, for example, the security regions. The States-General is often asked to hear that these issues are discussed at regional level, so that effective control at national level is also inadequate. Neither the cabinet nor the local authorities actively disclose documents of such consultation tables. When decentralised representatives, parliamentarians or citizens themselves request documents from these administrative consultative tables, they usually get zero due to the so-called relative exceptions. Under the guise of internal reflection, effective control of such administrative consultation and management tables is made impossible. Do the authors of this proposal share the view of the PVV Group that documents from such consultation and management tables should be actively and passively made public within the framework of the Open Government Act? Can they indicate what possibilities they have with this legislative proposal to improve public access to these management and consultation tables? I also ask the Minister when I can expect a response to the earlier commitment on this matter regarding the reports and accountability of the national management tables, in particular the migration management table. Mr. Chairman. On 5 February 2019, this Chamber adopted the Van Hattem motion on making the reports of the climate tables and the Climate Council public. It is true that the cabinet itself has made the reports public, but essential parts have been blackwashed. In particular, the organisations that took part in the consultation tables cannot be reduced by the paintwork, which makes it impossible as a parliament to effectively monitor these reports and what has been introduced and exchanged at the climate tables. Over the past two and a half years, I have repeatedly asked the cabinet to submit this information in a readable and traceable form to the organisations. The cabinet continues to refuse. In view of Article 68 of the Constitution, the cabinet should provide this information to the Chamber on request and the refusal is unacceptable. Therefore, again the question to the Minister: is the outgoing cabinet, in the light of Article 68 of the Constitution, the intentions of the present bill for an open government and the motion adopted, still prepared to provide the reports of the climate tables and the Climate Council in a form which is verifiable by parliament, including by passage a reference to the organisations concerned? It doesn't even have to be a reference to a person but to the organization. If not, why not? And how does this attitude fit in with the spirit of the bill? Can the initiators indicate whether they consider that the provision of this information fits within the framework of this legislative proposal? Can they indicate whether the cabinet's refusal so far is consistent with the intended change in the culture of the bill and with the obligation of active disclosure? Mr. Chairman. Then there is another point of concern, namely with regard to the grounds for exception. Often citizens' requests for information are refused because of business or competition-sensitive information. But people's representatives are also running against this. Such information is often not actively provided by drivers and can often only be seen under strict confidentiality. In many cases, these projects involve public authorities themselves from the role of co-developer and/or co-investor, for example in land transactions for area development, real estate exploitation, loans and public-private partnerships. In the case of a tender, it is logical that not all information is on the streets, but in practice it often goes much further and is withheld more information than necessary, such as information on soil degradation relevant for decision-making. From our own recent experience as a member of the State, for example, I mention the redevelopment of the Life Science Park in Oss and the CSM site in Breda, where the Brabant College of GS did not disclose the requested documents until after strong pressure, but still with lots of unnecessary blackwashing. This puts further pressure on the controlling and framework role of the representatives of the people, also because they cannot speak and debate it in public. How do the initiators and the minister view these developments, particularly at the decentralised level? How do they see this in relation to the legislative proposal before us, in particular with regard to the active obligation to provide information? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Another aspect. Under the current established case law of the Wob, the rule of thumb applies "to one public, public to all." But recently, the situation has arisen that an administrative body has provided documents to a number of journalists, and has refused the same documents to other applicants and even to representatives of the people on request. In this case, they concerned documents relating to the agenda of a CdK, which were provided to journalists for the purposes of an article. When others made a request for exactly the same documents pursuant to this Article, this CdK refused to do so. The provision of these documents to journalists would have been "an experiment" according to this CdK. Following a detailed legal procedure, the Administrative Court of the Council of State ruled that the CdK did not have to provide the documents because, in its own words, it had been agreed in advance with the journalists that this provision was not formally a Wob request. In order to properly frame in this debate the legislator's intention of this legislative proposal, I ask how, for the initiators, the principle "for one public, for everyone public" fits within this legislative proposal. In view of the objectives of improving active and passive disclosure, do they consider that this new law should also apply if there is no formal Wob request in the first instance? Should it always be possible to share a piece of information within the framework of this law with others when it has been given to someone outside the internal sphere of the administrative body? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Article 5.2, third paragraph, refers to exceptions for personal policy views in documents on formal administrative decisions, unless internal reflection is disproportionately harmed. That "improper harm" is only briefly explained. Can the initiators go into this in more detail, so that this ground can be prevented from undermining the purpose of this bill out of political opportunism? Finally, Mr President. One of the objectives of this bill is to improve the information system within the government and thus to improve the application of the Archive Act. Can the initiators indicate what steps they see for themselves to maintain this more effectively within the government and what involvement they see for popular representatives in this? Mr. Chairman. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr Backer has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u122	Mr President, thank you. Camels, tigers, oases: a whole procession has already come along. I'm not going to express myself in metaphors, I say to reassure you. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to congratulate the initiators on their perseverance and, of course, that praise extends to their predecessors. I must say that the names "Snels" and "Sneller" are humorous, as far as the pace of this legislation is concerned. Anyway, that irony might be nice, too. Mr. Chairman. The fact that it has taken so much time has not only to do with the complexity of the subject, but also with the evolution of thinking about the relationship between citizen and state. I think the original proposers were somewhat ahead of their time. Perhaps the evolution is now, albeit not yet with everyone, that the proposal could reach the final stage. The proposal introduces the legal recognition of citizens' right of access to public information, Article 1.1. Publicity is therefore no longer a favor, but a right. What legitimizes this change is that the information asymmetry between the State and the citizen needs democratic counterpower. In accordance with Article 1 (1), Article 4.1 (3) states that the citizen does not have to take any interest either. He is a citizen; that is his interest, except in the limitations that the law imposes. Those restrictions cannot be extended per AMvB. I believe that this is a gain compared to the Public Access Administration Act; it is also better in terms of legislation. Mr. Chairman. This adaptation is not even the full implementation of the Treaty obligations in national legislation. Colleague Van der Linden already mentioned it. It is the Aarhus Convention, but above all the Tromsø Convention. My Norwegian is not strong, but I think we should say "Tromsø." It is also contained in Article 42 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Access to information and documentation is also provided in Article 10 of the ECHR. That is also the subject of settled case law. I agree with the pertinent questions put by colleagues Ganzevoort and Van der Linden. What is needed now to join the Tromsø Convention? Because indeed he made it up to us to figure it out somewhere at number 73 in the international ranking. That there is room for improvement does not seem to me to be an exaggeration. Of course, that ranking doesn't fit our own self-image of the responsive government we would be. We know better, of course, rather from the staggering experience of citizens than from the international ranking. I am referring, of course, to the premium affair, which has already been mentioned. Our government is anything but responsive. I believe that a point of reference in this supplementing affair is that good intentions of a system of income support by central or decentralised bureaucracy can also degenerate if prejudices, wrong incentives and a lack of human standards are used in a legislative context. In this way, there can also be a dynamic of its own that is resentful. This proposal will not change that dynamic, but it will differ from one Member State to another, I believe Mr Rombouts and I believe that it will give greater scope for intervention than in the past, for citizens, for the media and for third parties who are interested. I think this is an important step forward. I come to the usual test of legality, enforceability and feasibility. In general, in the trias politicians, the monopoly of drawing up, managing and archiving government documents rests with the executive, by its very nature. Legislative power can monitor its information position on the basis of the obligation to provide information under Article 68 Constitution. In our view of democracy, the delegation of political power begins with the citizen. He stood so far with tied hands. That is why we also welcome the principle of Article 2.5, which is the general interest of public access. No, not only transparency or openness, but the general interest is laid down here. This, too, is a proposal that fits in with the evolutionary development of the rule of law, which has made access to justice, hearing again and the principle of equality more important. In doing so, my group also considers the proposal to be legitimate. It is an important exercise of civil rights that the legislative authority must also pay more attention to public access than has been the case up to now. The same goes for this Chamber. I hope that the Registry has already prepared itself for the possibility of this bill coming into force in six months' time. This is also going to apply to us. Mr. Chairman. The mechanical definition of "public information" in the sense of the legislation will then appear in the technique of legislation. It is conceived, collected and managed by a public body. That information is "restored" in that terminology in the government; Mr Koole also quoted it. However, the place of storage of documents is not always decisive, since according to Article 2.1, the documents must, by their nature, be "related to the public nature of the public body, person or college." That also seems to me to be a fair limit. "Document" is a well-known term from the Archive Act. All aspects of archiving are crucial. It has just been mentioned and it seems clear to me that we need to be clear that data in the cloud, on WhatsApp and on Signal are part of the public information if they fall within that definition. I would like to hear that from the petitioners and the minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the feasibility. There is an effort commitment on the part of the public authorities, on the one hand, to the obligation of care to keep the information system in order. I think that's very good and it's high time. That's the organizational aspect, actually. On the other hand, this obligation is aimed at the general interest of public access. That's actually more of a behavioral effect. The difference with a commitment to results is clear from Articles 5.1 and 5.2: there are exceptions; these are relative grounds and there is a balance of interest. Mr. Chairman. That first point of the duty of care, of keeping the house in order, has played a role throughout the whole process. There's a lot of doubt about that. Several stakeholders, including the VNG, recently stated that the phased implementation by local authorities would be possible, provided there was sufficient funding. I have often dealt with legislative proposals on which reassuring noises came from the VNG, which is also a collection of many different interests. My group does not think that is enough in itself. I would like confirmation from the authors, but also from the Minister, of the reassuring sounds that it is possible to introduce this responsibly both in terms of human resources and funding. "Every time is transition time," said the King on Prince's Day. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to go on for a little longer on what this means specifically for the efforts. For can the inadequate status of information management be a legitimate reason for refusal or powerlessness to deliver? I remember, for example, the debate on the IND and the abolition of the periodic penalty payments. There are many case positions imaginable. The information system is not yet in order, but can be updated with some time and effort. So there's no more penalty payments. What's the incentive here? And is that actually a legitimate defence? And if so, how long is that a legitimate defence? If this is before the announcement of active disclosure, I can imagine, but after the proclamation this does not seem to me to be a valid defence anymore. In the debate in the House of Representatives, Mr Sneller used the term "sunrise." I did know "sunset." Then it ends, but this is the thought that after a period of implementation, the proclamation comes into effect. Is it not better for legal certainty and organisational predictability for governments and for all those covered by the Woo that this is announced in good time? Is it perhaps wise to give it a timing now, so that everyone can focus on it? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of whether there is a link between the active public access decision and the treatment of the Modernisation of Electronic Administrative Traffic Act (35261). It also includes a duty of care. I'd like an answer from the petitioners and the minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna come up with tenability. That's the behavior aspect. How can we prevent... Let me start differently: how can this cultural change take place that we have already talked about a few times in the event of interruption? Is it possible to prevent an unnecessary course to the courts? Because in 2013 it was said somewhere in the Chambers that the proposers do not want the proposal to lead to legalisation. It is complicated for citizens because of information asymmetry to formulate their problem in a manner consistent with the way in which the government organised that information. Mr Koole and Mr Rombouts had just had an interrupting debate on this, I think. The logic of bureaucracy is not the logic of the citizen. What can be done here to prevent unnecessary judicialisation? According to my group, there is a parallel with the vision expressed by the Ombudsman in the digitalisation of the government in 2017. The Ombudsman formulated four principles. He said to the government: take responsibility, be accessible, be solution-oriented and be user-friendly; adjust the organization accordingly. This was discussed in the note following the report to that law. Our group would like to hear the views of the authors. Does the Minister share the view that these principles should apply mutatis mutandis to the duty of care of the present legislative proposal? Article 4.1 (5) states that the administrative body must assist the applicant in the formulation of his or her question. In the light of these principles, can the portal not receive much more organisational and proactive emphasis? That seems very important to me. Finally, Mr President. The proposal we are discussing today is not in itself, nor will it be the turning point in the change in administrative culture. But it is a necessary starting point. That turning point requires the commitment of all those involved in the operation of the Woo. There is a need for a new administrative culture with our colleagues on the Bezuidenhoutseweg 67, we used to say 'across the street', but that cannot be said anymore. There are still a few ongoing parliamentary investigations which have clearly and painfully reminded us of the shortcomings of all those involved. I can ask the following question. The defenders of the bill on behalf of the House of Representatives are present here, but they do not need to be embarrassed. What does B67 intend to do about it? For it is not only necessary to change the governance culture. There is also a need for a change in political culture, which is perhaps even more important. An improvement in the administrative culture is not created by magic by changing the paint instruction, as the state-wide Wob guide of 74 pages in the corridors seems to be called. I would also like to turn it into a 'publicity guide' if this law were to succeed. Mr. Chairman. A self-examination has been initiated by the Council of State as a result of the premium affair. Our Chamber has set up working groups and we have also started a dialogue with the Council of State on strengthening the legal protection of citizens. But the Council of State has also said something about ministerial responsibility. He said that a gradual settlement culture has developed. Former colleague Joop van den Berg also wrote about this. That is relevant to this issue, because if the norm is stated that the government must proceed flawlessly and the departure of a ruler as a penance becomes an end in itself that is in full swing then this leads to unhealthy behavior of ministers and their officials. Perhaps Mr Rombouts and I can still find each other on that point. That behavior will increasingly focus on avoiding errors and that is the best route to errors. The standard of error-free action must of course be the aim, but there are many reasons why it cannot always succeed in a complex political context, and those reasons may also prove to be legitimate. The trust rule contains the unspoken assumption that error-free performance cannot reasonably be requested and that accountability deficiencies can be weighed back against the sincerity of the efforts, the goals achieved and the performance to be achieved. Should this reasonable balance not also apply to the movement between government and parliament? No one has been held to the impossible. You know our group as a positive group, which has confidence in the future. We believe that both administrative and political cultural change is possible. Finally, I look forward to the answers from the proposers and the Minister and, of course, we will make our final weighing up in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u123	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u124	I would like to thank Mr Backer for his interesting contribution. I'm just gonna hook up with the last part. That was about the Council of State's comment on ministerial responsibility. I fully share his view that if you seek public access and there are things that are not quite right, which should not automatically lead to a settlement culture. Then I quote Joop van den Berg, who wrote about this. My question is: are the rule of trust and the rule of ministerial responsibility not also confused, according to Mr Backer? If you disclose things, for example through this law, the ministerial responsibility for all things that have not gone well will of course remain completely intact. That's different from the trust rule. They're both very important, but that's different from the trust rule, where at some point you could come to giving up trust. Would it not be the case that this law also contributes to the activation of ministerial responsibility, without many people automatically saying: then the rule of trust is also on the agenda? Would that distinction between the two rules not therefore be promoted by the adoption of this law? How does Mr Backer feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u125	I am very pleased with this question. It is, of course, risky to start in this room with an emeritus professor of political science about the rule of trust. But you're right to make that distinction. So does the Council of State. I think the answer is yes. It should be clear that a final decision has been taken and that there is a final document for which ministerial responsibility applies, both to the citizen and to the parliament, depending on the public and the clarity of what has led to a decision. This is particularly true in the field in which citizens request documents. In doing so, I would like to point out that, as a rule, between Article 68 of the Constitution and the request of the Court of Justice, there may be a slightly different approach to these policy concepts and the importance of these policy concepts. And, indeed, in the final balance, the Minister is, of course, the top of the department. In this sense, there is only one responsibility for all the behaviours underneath, including for what goes wrong. In the assessment of the trust rule, of course, the question is: could he have known this, how serious is this, has this happened repeatedly and can he go on? That's in the area of the trust rule. However, I have the feeling that in the debates I would like to have just mentioned it, and that in the balancing of the rule of confidence there is almost no room for error. True mistakes must, of course, be taken seriously, and political consequences must be taken into account, but ultimately it is also human work. I would have liked to draw your attention to that. I hope I have answered your question with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u126	Thank you for that answer. I agree with Mr Backer that this distinction must be made. Former European judge A.M. Donner once referred to the ministerial responsibility as "whipping for the official service." My idea is that with this law, the Woo, perhaps precisely because you are making more public and show what is happening in that official service, which is able to work better to use its metaphor, without that automatically leading to a discussion about the rule of trust, which is happening quickly in the public debate. Those are two different rules. Both are very important. Now they are often seen as mutually exclusive, but perhaps this law can create a little more distance between the two or at least promote a little more distinction. I understand that Mr Backer is of the same opinion, but I would like to know if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u127	Finally, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u128	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u129	Let me touch on this little debate, because I think it is a little vague in this way. I hear Mr Backer of D66 say: we must prevent this legislative proposal from creating a culture that avoids mistakes and eliminates things, in order to avoid public disclosure. At the same time, therefore, cultural change must also take place. The debate is now taking place immediately on the question of the rule of trust, i.e. on the Carrington doctrine, where a ruler has to leave if it has already gone wrong. I would rather hear Mr Backer's view that a ruler can also intervene in order to really tackle this culture and that officials are not going to take steps to avoid public access and to keep things out of the open. How does Mr Backer see himself, that this can be effectively dealt with, rather than having a whole discussion about whether or not to apply the rule of trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u130	I think that the rather rare moment is when Mr Van Hattem and I agree. I did not want to take advantage of the principle of trust in order to weaken the usefulness and importance of this proposal. I just said that if you want to change the administrative culture, you also have to look at your political culture, because if that political culture is going to lead to that administrative culture at official level... I sometimes hear that the minister is being kept out of the wind, when things are not actually going to be done that way and would not want to whip the right thing, say, craftsmanship and content, which is necessary for the right decision. But I think we agree on this point. I just wanted to take this trip, because I don't think the bill is going to achieve that alone. That was the port of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u131	It must be clear that if this bill is there or if it is adopted, then it must be expected that, instead of avoiding public access, they will also actively promote and strengthen public access in their official organisation, and that they will be able to be dealt with very hard if that does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u132	They will abide by this new law, should it be passed. With that, the rule is reversed and it's public, unless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u133	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group has taken note with interest of the initiative legislative proposal Open Government Act and the accompanying novelle. It respects the steadfastness with which the original initiators and now their successors, the objective of a transparent and active publicising government, continue to pursue. Despite the positive attitude of 50PLUS to this bill, there are still a few questions that we would like to know about. As you know, the Open Government Act, the Woo, the Public Administration Act, the Wob, has to replace it. In the reply, the initiators argue that Woo guarantees the right to public sector information and that the administrative body promotes that disclosure in practice. In addition to the obligation to make information categories public, there is also an obligation on administrative bodies to publish documents on their own initiative in the performance of their tasks, i.e. as an active attitude. 50PLUS points to the legal difference between an effort and a result obligation. The exercise obligation concerns only the guarantee that the administrative body is working, while the result obligation consists of the guarantee to obtain a certain result. In the latter case, non-achievement of the intended objective leads to incorrect performance. On the other hand, in the event of an effort obligation, the citizen must demonstrate that the administrative body has not made sufficient efforts to achieve the desired result and thus has the burden of proof on his shoulders. The escape for the administrative body is already set out in Article 3.1 (1) which states that "if this is reasonably possible without disproportionate effort or costs'. Although the initiators argue that they want to regulate the same with Article 3.1 as with Article 8 of the Wob, it seems even less likely that the government, which apparently already has difficulty in making information available on its own, will act. My group would like to hear why the choice has been made not to tighten up the existing obligation under Article 8 of the Wob in Article 3.1 Woo, but to make it even more relative. Indeed, is there any justification, as the initiators argue, for the fact that the categories in Article 3.3 force specific disclosure for precisely not tightening up the general obligation to actively disclose? We would like an enlightening response from the initiators. By opting for an effort obligation, the initiators hope to give more substance to active disclosure by the administrative body. But if this hope turns out to be vain, sanctions are lacking. It is precisely because of the lack of sanctions that Article 3.1 (1) may become a dead letter, just like the current Article 8 of the Wob. Recognize the initiators of this possibility. If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. My group has a specific question on the deadline referred to in Article 3.1 (3) in which there is the possibility of objection for the interested party who has concerns about disclosure of information. He shall be given a period to do so, to be determined by the relevant administrative body. The duration of the period shall not be specified. What do the initiators and the minister consider to be a reasonable period of time? And why is this deadline left to the relevant administrative body? Do they agree with my group that this does not create any clarity? Why wasn't it chosen for a maximum time limit in any case? I would like a substantiated response from the Minister and the initiators. A communication from the administrative body concerning the disclosure of documents may be regarded as a decision against which an objection and appeal may be lodged by the interested party. However, such an objection procedure does not have suspensive effect. So although you get a deadline to express objections, full disclosure of documents can be undertaken. What are the consequences for the administrative body if it turns out that the person concerned was right to object to disclosure? After all, the publication can no longer be reversed. However, in order to prevent premature publication, the person concerned will have to go to the welfare court, which will entail high costs. Mr. Chairman. Do the proposers consider that any administrative body is able to assess, per case, who might be interested parties and whether they may be harmed by the disclosure of documents? Does an administrative body have the means and the time to map all interested parties for publication at all? Does such an inventory not entail too much implementation burden? How do the initiators propose such an assessment of stakeholders in concrete terms? Would it not have been wiser to require that any intended active disclosure should in any event be made public in such a way that interested parties who may not have been specifically recognised by the administrative body could be aware of it? I'd like a response. Van der Sluis notes in his book on the Woo that it is a missed chance that the necessary interim provision does not directly lead to the suspension of the decision at the time of the request. This is included in Article 4.4 (5) when it comes to passive disclosure. Why did not the initiators opt for a similar regime in the case of active disclosure? In any case, is it desirable for an interested party to have to bring an action before the courts for active disclosure? Wouldn't it have been more careful if some kind of coolingdown period had been inserted for the administrative board if an interested party had raised an objection? One example is a scheme which states that, in the case of active disclosure, objections do have suspensive effect. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I come to the exceptions set out in Articles 5.1 and 5.2. For example, because of interests such as the security of the State or privacy of data subjects, information is sometimes not disclosed by definition, the absolute exceptions, and sometimes in consideration of the general interest of disclosure, the relative exceptions. The protection of the interests referred to therein is discarded if, under Article 3.4 of the Rules of Procedure, an administrative body of its own accord nevertheless makes public disclosure on account of another important interest, for example because of public health or the legal order. The concept of "heavy importance" has not been defined. Does this mean a free pass for a more detailed explanation of it? Van der Sluis also calls for attention to be paid to this nevertheless dangerous basis, which gives governments the opportunity to make public even blindly for the absolute exceptions. How does this relate to international conventions and directives, which also have certain interests to be protected, so 50PLUS asks the initiators. Do the initiators recognise that such disclosure by an administrative body on its own initiative can also be regarded as a decision against which there is legal protection? Then how do the initiators see the procedure that interested parties are known and can use remedies in relation to the obvious importance that is at stake? My group is looking forward to replying to this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the implementation of the WOB case law in the Woo. Van der Sluis rightly points out that it is a missed opportunity not to incorporate the statement of the Council of State of 2020 into the present legislative proposal. Article 5.1 (2) states that disclosure of information is not required in so far as its importance does not outweigh the importance of the Netherlands' relations with other countries, states and international organisations. As early as 2020, the Council of State stated that the use of the grounds for refusal to provide the information, based solely on the fear that the relationship between the Netherlands and in this case the International Atomic Energy Agency and the associated countries is not sufficient to justify it. Shouldn't the Woo have taken into account the possibility of restrictively explaining grounds for refusal? I'd like a response from the initiators. Should it not also have been ensured that, in each individual case, the public interest served by disclosure must be weighed against the specific interest served by the refusal of disclosure? This could result in, for example, partial availability of environmental information when it is possible to separate information from each other. In the opinion of 50PLUS, the initiators and the minister have clearly explained the relationship between Woo and Article 68 of the Constitution, which supervises the independent disclosure of directors to the Chambers. The report "Unknown injustice" in relation to the provision of information to the States General on the child allowance affair contributed to the reflexion of Article 5.2, paragraph 2, so that personal policy views on the basis of the Woo can no longer be refused to be made public. The amendment adopted by the Dutch MP Van der Molen makes official advice for formal administrative decision-making public in principle, which welcomes 50PLUS and what she considers to be a good step in that direction. As has been said, my group supports the objectives of this legislative proposal but notes that we are not yet there with the possibility of adopting it. The real effect of a much more active disclosure policy has to come from a cultural change, as other members have pointed out, such as Mr Backer, where administrative bodies, unless there is an urgent need to do so, become aware that sharing information is a citizen's right and a duty for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u135	That puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u136	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u137	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u138	It is actually about a slightly earlier point that you spoke about, namely the Van der Molen amendment and about personal policy ideas. I think that's a good way to go. I just have a question. I have never worked in a department myself, but I understand that there can be fifteen versions of an important note or advice to the Minister, especially if there is to be inter-departmental policy consultation. I would think that the most important thing for opinion formation is ultimately what is the decision and the underlying advice on that point when it reaches its final stage. 'Cause if you don't, you've got semi-finished products. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u139	I think I agree with Mr Backer that it does not make much sense, of course, for an opinion to be divided into parts until it has obtained a final result, then at all times revealing all these intermediate steps. I do not know whether that makes much sense either, because the final opinion is at the end of the day. That is being taken over or not, and that is of course up to the person responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u140	Hopefully we will also hear the reflections of the proposers on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u141	Thank you. The first term on the part of the Chamber takes a little more time than planned. In consultation with the chairman of the BIZa/AZ committee, I propose that the first deadline be completed completely before dinner break. Otherwise, we'll be suspended twice. This means that the BIZa/AZ committee meeting will be postponed until 5 October 2021. I understand that as far as the committee's agenda is concerned, that is also a possibility. If the Chamber can agree to this and so can the chairman of the BIZA/AZ committee, then that is how we have established it. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Burg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u142	Mr. Chairman. Preferably I'll be here every week, or rather, I'll be there. Because I am not only enjoying the debates we have here with each other, I am also learning from them. As far as I am concerned, that is also the essence of debates. What we're doing here isn't a matter of transmitting. We can also do this literally by e-mail. Then we'll just exchange a text, and we'll notice it next week at the vote. But it's mostly listening and learning. I have once again enjoyed and learned from the debate between Rombouts and Koole in particular, which, in my opinion, is an essential part of today's debate. For we can indeed make changes to legislation and regulations, but it was the example I would almost say: Mr Koole's scourge towards the Minister, which immediately reflected the essence of what I really think it should be about. He said, even if scouts are not covered by the law, documents can still be made public. When that incident occurred, there was a discussion in the House of Representatives, and I wanted to say "on the other hand," Mr Koole was right about the fact that almost everything had to be made public. I thought to myself: if they could have connected something to the heads of the rulers or scouts, they would have tapped them as well. Of course, that wasn't the point at all. It's about creating a culture with each other in which you make public what needs to be made public. But what did you see in those debates, or not so much in the debates in the House of Representatives, but in the analysts around them? They indicated that the discussion in the Lower House surrounding the scouting story could lead to certain things not happening that way anymore. You write it on a yellow, or you don't even write it on a yellow, but you say it. Does a WhatsApp message that has been spoken similar to a WhatsApp message that has been written? I also agree with you, Mr Rombouts: WhatsApp, although formally written, is spoken in people's minds. The legislator is often behind the facts. In any case, there was a discussion about how to avoid certain matters becoming public in the future. What are people gonna do to do that? I think we should stay away from that. I hear many people say that even more strongly here and that is why I am a little more on Mr Rombouts' side than on Mr Koole's side in the discussion and understand Mr Rombouts' remark that Mr Koole himself put forward a lot of arguments against the law, with which I am not saying that I am against the law, Mr Koole. And that's something we can't lay down in a law. Even more importantly, we must be careful not to do the opposite of what we want through what we lay down in the law. As you know, I am a member of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, along with a number of people here, which is essentially about how nobody here wants to discriminate, but sometimes our laws lead to exclusion and delay. But that can also apply to the Open Government Act or the Public Administration Act. Because if we create a law that prevents civil servants from writing what they need to write and from advising on what they need to advise, and if discussions arise in order to prevent things from becoming public, then we have put the horse behind the cart. I also see you nodding, and that is something I would also like to ask your reflection on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u143	Mr. Van der Burg, would you like to speak through the chairman? You don't do that repeatedly, but you're supposed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u144	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. You're right, of course. I ask not you, Mr President, a reflection on this point, but the initiators. Although I am always very interested in your reflection, we do do so outside the meeting. The purpose of the law is transparency and active disclosure. But indeed, as Mr Koole also said, why? Is that so that we can be controlled, for example by journalism? Then in this case also a reflection of the initiators, because for example the Association of Research Journalists says that the bill now before us is not automatically an improvement on the Wob. They can see that there are quite a few limitations in it. The second part is not that control side, but giving citizens insight. Citizens should simply be able to see what lies with decision-making that concerns them. This is a complicated discussion, which has just been discussed in Mr Backer's interruption towards Mrs Baay. Is it necessary for you, as a citizen, to go through the whole process, including the nineteen, and I believe that you mentioned that number of different variants for it to come to a final piece? I doubt that. I doubt that. And taking into account the fact that civil servants should also be able to advise what they can advise, this touches on the point that I think I am more interested in the "final concept," as I will just call it for a moment. Of course, it applies a compliment to the initiators, and we are aware that we are indeed in favour of the sixth generation of initiators. The initiators spoke in the Lower House about "the utopia of Mariko Peters." I always like that myself. I think you should always pursue utopias. I thought it was an abomination, but I nevertheless congratulated her, because she sought a utopia that you, as initiators, have managed to make a viable and affordable initiative, with which you have also received the support of the public bodies involved, for example the VNG and the IPO. Compliments to the initiators that the elements of the register towards the multiannual plan and the Commissioners have been removed. So I'm a little different from the PVV. Finally, a few questions. The first is a rather strange question to the Minister. Does she agree with herself? The answer is, of course, simply yes, but still I ask the question. I read your arguments about the waterboards. I think it was a question from Mr Koole. Apologies if it was someone else. I thought you couldn't be serious about what's in there. In the light of the development and not so much the importance of waterboards as the recognition that waterboards were always important, I thought it was a special answer. I ask both the Minister and the initiators to reflect on what was said last week by the VNG and the IPO in relation to PLOOI. We do not have a good reputation for information systems and ICT. Does that date have to be that date?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u145	You have an interruption, but you can also finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u146	Yes, because I have one more question, and that concludes my speech. Last month we were as committee COREL in the Antilles, Bonaire to be precise. It is right that Bonaire does not know Wmo as we know it in the Netherlands. It doesn't fit the system. This also applies to a number of other laws. So I also understand that you say: this law cannot be translated one-on-one into Caribbean Netherlands. But what we have also seen in the Caribbean Netherlands is the result if there is no Wmo, namely that people simply do not get the facilities they are entitled to as citizens of the Netherlands. That is why I ask the initiators to respond. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is no task here for the Minister to fix the initiative proposal in a novelle. That is, of course, a word that has a different context in this Chamber. However, I would ask that we at least look at how the guarantees can also be designed for the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u147	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u148	I have a question for Mr Van der Burg. In the past, he has been a member of the central administration of the VNG himself. He just pointed to the VNG. The VNG has actively lobbied to my knowledge not to fall under that Woo itself. The board advises the members negatively to voluntarily submit themselves to the Woo or the Wob. My question to Mr Van der Burg is what he thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u149	Well, at least I agree with the legal argument that the UNG as such is an association and therefore does not fall within it. I think in your questions... No, let me stick to the sentence I just said. I agree with the legal argument that the VNG as an association does not fall within the sphere of influence of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u150	That's not even an argument. That's a fact, just like a sports association doesn't fall under it. The VNG is, of course, only made up of directors and public money. There are some legal problems, but do you at least think that the VNG should say by itself: because this is the case, are we going to voluntarily submit ourselves to the Woo or the Wob? Would that be a good deed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u151	Mr Ganzevoort indicated the difference between the VU and the UvA. The UvA is governed by the law; the VU is not governed by the law. This is without prejudice to the fact that an average citizen will not notice that difference in the behaviour of VU. As far as I am concerned, this could also apply to the UNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u152	To continue with this question: Mr Van der Burg says that the VNG as an association, or as a private-law organisation, is not covered by this law. That's what the law says now. Can a distinction also be made in the performance of tasks? For example, the composition of the board, the minutes of the board, etc., are purely association issues. They may not have to be included. Public tasks include participation in consultation platforms, consultation on the Regional Energy Strategy involving, for example, a VNG body, etc. However, it should be compulsory as soon as it concerns the exercise of a public task, including directors who should be covered by this law. How does Mr Van der Burg view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u153	In my view, we will be discussing the democratic legitimacy of the Law on Common Arrangements within a reasonably short period of time. At least that was on the agenda of the General Affairs Committee, which is not going through today. I think that much of what you are asking for is to be dealt with along that line, because municipalities do not so much as fulfil the public law task through the VNG, but much more through the common rules. In this way, documents must be made public, such as the RESs you are talking about and the debate on the RESs. No misunderstanding: I believe that politicians in common regulations have the task of showing transparency about the choices they make. A law like this could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u154	That's the problem. Many such consultation platforms, clubs and organisations are not included in a common arrangement. As an example, BET12, the body created within the IPO for consultation between the provinces. All such more informal consultations, in which formal directors participate from the point of view of their duties and position as directors, are not covered by a common regulation. If there is a common arrangement, it is clear. Then it's legally secured. Then we can easily cross it off. The point is that this is a piece of formal management that takes place in a private-law organisation. Shouldn't this formal administration be the vigeur of the Woo?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u155	I'm not convinced of that at the moment. We're gonna have a reaction from the cabinet and the initiators tonight, I think. If I don't bring it up myself in the second term and you interrupt me, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u156	Thank you. And again, Mr. Van der Burg, please speak through the chairman. That's tricky, but it's really the request. I now give the floor to Mrs Gerkens. It will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u157	Mr. Chairman. I do so through you, and through you I also thank the initiators for submitting this initiative law. I would also like to thank all the predecessors of the initiators. Indeed, what an interesting debate we have today. I have been very happy to follow all the interruptions surrounding the fear of revealing documents from officials, and how we could avoid axe day. Of course that's a dilemma. In these debates, I share Mr Koole's view that disclosure will lead to greater protection, because in my view common sense still prevails in our Parliament, and otherwise the coalition urge. And if it isn't, then it's just really screwed up. Mr. Chairman. The SP therefore also supports the starting point of this law: everything publicly, unless it presents an irresponsible risk. It could be a simple starting point, but given the slow ways to rely on the Wob, the scraped pieces and the eager use of exceptions, it is not. The law before it has a long history, which also shows this fear of introduction. For example, the law was already before treatment in this Chamber when another study of its consequences was carried out. There have been three studies and all three gave them a different picture of the costs. Objectively, I think that is a special observation. If this law is adopted, my group very much hopes that this will happen. It will also have to be a change in the administrative culture of many governments. I agree with many of the speakers. But that's not so obvious. We have seen this in recent years, for example in the case of the premium affair. The pieces sent to the Chamber contain more black stripes than readable text. Not only at national level, the current culture of road coats is persistent, but also at provincial level, as recently appeared in the province of Zeeland. That's where the press was trying to figure out where the millions of failed sealocks were spent. The province there refuses, on the grounds that they are not allowed to tell the contractor. The latter, of course, again invokes trade secrecy. Closer to home.................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. The government's policy became uncontrollable, for example by journalists. That is not an open attitude on the part of the board. My group fears, and I believe that some of you do, that even if this law is passed, that reality will still prove to be unbearable. My question to the initiators is: how do they see this? How does the Minister intend to initiate the necessary cultural changes in the internal administration? It is therefore worrying that we have not even signed the Tromsø Convention. With the one who has to do this for me, I ask the Minister: are we finally going to do this? Mr. Chairman. We are also distracting ourselves from the fact that we have been asked in detail about who exactly does and what is not covered by the scope of that law. Technically, that's pure, especially towards our role. After all, it is important to clarify who will be complying with this law, who will have to reveal and who will not. But what I do feel is that it shouldn't really matter if it's your job or your duty to reveal. You just need to make your information actively accessible. That's what you have to want, by definition. The tricky point of today's Wob, and I also think of the future Woo, is that we have those exceptions. In particular, the appeal to personal reflections is currently often used. In the corridors this is also called the Ruttedoctrine. That exception causes a lot of information to be wiped out. That information is often more than a thought formation, such as factual information or information which is no longer clear to see who said what, but which does contain an important opinion. Interestingly, I found the question: should we then reveal all the documents that have gone back and forth between officials before we have a final document? I think that would be absurd during the process, because the thought formation has not yet ended. But I do think that these documents can also be relevant in order to see how advice has been delivered. There is also information that is sometimes needed for the reconstruction. The initiators have tried to prevent the abuse of this Article by better indicating the grounds for exception. However, I ask them whether they really think that this is enough. Do the proposers consider that they have closed the escape route with this? And if it doesn't turn out to be, what other steps would there be? Have they considered other steps, but not included in the law? And if so, why not? And, of course, the related question: is that precisely the consideration of what is made public? And if not, why not? Mr. Chairman. The disclosure of information is a crucial part of a well-functioning democracy. It enables Parliament and journalism, as well as citizens, to be able to fully control the government. It turns out that if more people are watching, policy makers are also more able to look at policies from a different angle. This prevents tunnel vision and thus active disclosure is intrinsically an improvement of the administration, even without those other eyes actually watching. But it's a job. It is a job to bring about this cultural change, but also to organise all the work processes in this way. There are concerns about the IT systems, about PLOOI, because they are still waiting for a connection strategy and technical connection requirements from BZK. I therefore ask the Minister when we can expect it. Can it undertake to clarify matters to local authorities in the short term? It would be very unfortunate if we had to wait again for this important law to be introduced, because the systems are not in order. Does the Minister agree with me? It is also quite a task because one has to realize that it is the whole chain and not just..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That seems like a hellish job, but I speak from experience when I say that when that button is finally turned, the process is pretty easy to set up. For example, we are conducting an investigation on behalf of the European Commission in my field of activity. We must comply with the same principles as all those questioned in that investigation. Anything discussed in the context of that investigation is public. All interviews, all lists, all meetings, and all participants had to give prior consent. For business secrets then the adage "if you don't want something to become public, just don't call it" applies. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. None of the participants has dropped out, the documents are documented in such a way that they can be requested. And indeed, it takes effort at the beginning of the journey, but it's actually just like when you start playing a new game: it takes some time to explain the rules of the game, but then the fun can begin. Mr. Chairman. This law is an improvement in the current situation and we therefore welcome it. Whether it's enough will have to prove. I call on all of you to stay focused on this. Sharply on the right to information that we, too, have as a parliament. This is very important not only for our role in parliamentary democracy, but also for the role and credibility of parliamentary democracy as a whole. I hope that the evaluation will soon show that the rules of the game may have been difficult at first, but that after that all participants will be happy to know what their role is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u158	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mr Talsma on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u159	Mr President, thank you very much. Even after our move to Lange Voorhout and the Kazernestraat, an operation for which I would like to make a big and heartfelt compliment on behalf of my group to all those who have contributed to it, Binnenhof and Ridderzaal remain meaningful places. Sometimes it's really inspiring. Recently I read Diederik Smit's dissertation, entitled The importance of the Binnenhof, and I reread the book of Jaap Huisman, Honor Restoration for a party hall. What struck me in this was the enormous number of renovations, additions, breaks, beautifications, austerities, changes in roles and forms that the Knight's Hall has experienced over many centuries. Between roughly the thirteenth and the nineteenth century there were all kinds of constructions against it, the exterior received several makeovers, alternated neglect and repaired each other, the wooden hood was replaced by a construction of cast iron and glass, and later restored, and many other adjustments were made, until the Ridderzaal in the late nineteenth century in the water state budget was outright referred to as "misformed." That was the moment when the government architect Knuttel was instructed to remove all deformities and, after intensive historical study by experts, to return the building to its original state as much as possible and make it suitable for the original purpose. In short: back to the core. The legislative proposals that we are discussing today do not date back to the thirteenth century, but in my mind, the history of the Knight's Room was in the process of preparing this debate. The first initiative proposal, the Open Government Act, was submitted on 5 July 2012, more than nine years ago. Since then, the debt instrument is not intended to disqualify a building well. An amended proposal following the opinion of the Council of State, four notes of amendment, four adopted amendments, an impact analysis in two stages, a social cost-benefit analysis by another organisation and with substantially different outcomes. A completely amended legislative proposal, a separate novelle, extensive implementation tests, a new opinion of the Council of State, subsequent amendments, two further notes of amendment and six amendments adopted. Mr. Chairman. The interwoven proposals that we are discussing today bear the same name as in 2012, but the whole has since undergone so many major renovations that, despite all the appreciation for the initiative taken and the long-livedness of the various proposers, my group is genuinely concerned about whether we should return to the core with this building, as with the Knight's Room in the nineteenth century. That core is dear to us. Article 110 of the Constitution lays down that, in carrying out its task, the public authorities shall act in accordance with the rules of law. This is not a fundamental constitutional right, but in the light of Article 10 of the ECHR and the case law of Strasbourg and The Hague, it is clear that, in certain circumstances, citizens have a general right to information vis-à-vis the public authorities. The current legal framework for this, the Public Administration Act, no longer meets all the requirements. My group, too, calls for more active public access and a greater effort by the public authorities to translate the desire to be transparent into action. Moreover, my group also advocates the re-evaluation of what has been described by an expert as 'policy intimacy'. Openness is not an end in itself. Making good policies in general, but certainly in sensitive issues, requires a thorough consideration, as well as contradiction, discussion and space to look at and discuss the issue from diametrically opposite perspectives. This requires a safe and confidential environment. Mr. Chairman. It was already clear to the cabinet that the Wob should be kicked. About at the same time as the Open Government initiative proposal, the Minister consulted a Law Adaptation Wob. The current status of this is not entirely clear to me, but the decision paper we have recently received in preparation for this debate shows that the reflection process is still ongoing. The decision-making paper looks primarily at a small survey of decision-makers in other countries, but contains a significant undercurrent which is very much in line with my group's concerns. In fact, the decision paper suggests that a broader study of public access legislation in other countries would be desirable, because there may be a lot to learn from it and because it can produce best practices. The note then points out that certain parts of the Open Government Act already date from ten years ago and that the current Wob practice has bottlenecks that are very likely to live on under the Woo. The last step in the decision-making paper, namely the implicit hope that everything can be repaired after the mandatory assessment in five years' time, is not my group's concern. The government, with the First Chamber, this house, as co-legislator, certainly cannot afford to move away from legislation that is not yet complete on content and feasibility in 2021. That would not do justice to the importance of an open government, to the importance of sound, clear, enforceable and enforceable legislation, nor to the many efforts that the initiators have made and which we highly appreciate. Mr. Chairman. One of the first versions of the initiative proposal was described by experts as unfeasible and priceless. After a series of years of adjustments, there are now two large, complex and intertwined legislative proposals in which although the most criticized parts no longer exist, the impact of which is still uncertain to such an extent. Three examples for example. First of all, the complexity of the proposed public access legislation has only increased. The attempt to establish a restrictive list of actively disclosed documents, combined with exceptions, double exceptions and conditions, which are not always compatible and sometimes contradictory, leads in the subtle but striking wording of the Council of State to the effect that "the crucial question of which documents are subject to mandatory active disclosure is difficult to answer" and that "the disclosure regime of the Woo is not easy to understand." The Council of State even openly questions whether the purpose of the law, namely more openness and less problems for citizens seeking information, can be achieved in this way. Two. In the letter of inquiry following the state-wide execution tests, the Minister draws the round conclusion that the Woo has proved to be feasible, but the underlying documents I believe are 317 pages full of reservations, reserves, ifs and buts in technical, financial, legal and capacity fields. This has not yet been resolved, while the legislation has now almost reached the final stage. Three. Apart from the feasibility for central and local authorities, the necessary Platform Open Public Sector Information, PLOOI, is still far from being in place. Last week, ladies and gentlemen, we have already received a letter from VNG, IPO and Union of Water Councils, expressing great concern as to whether this platform will be sufficiently developed even when the Woo will enter into force, let alone whether governments will be connected to it in good time, let alone whether those governments will be able to prepare themselves for it. There is no connection strategy and the technical connection conditions are unclear. So that is completely independent of the legal complexity. Finally, local authorities clearly state that it is unclear what incidental and structural costs are involved. The legislative process of this initiative has taken a long time. This is not a reproach to the proposers, but it is all the more reason to see whether the proposal is sound and whether it is in line with what is needed now and in the future. Precisely then, it is better to return halfway to the core than to go completely astray. In the treatment so far, many have referred to the childcare allowance affair as an example of a government that does not work or is not sufficiently transparent. Understandable. I'd almost say thick line underneath. But that same affair is a painful and embarrassing example of the consequences of very complex and fragmented legislation adopted with the best political intentions, but in practice it can be dramatically counterproductive. In short, my group today resists the temptation to ask the many conceivable questions at the level of detail, but merely puts the following question on the table for genuine concern. Isn't the importance of an open government worth acting with the entire package before us in the spirit of the assignment that government architect Knuttel received at the end of the nineteenth century, namely: return to the core, do research, collect best practices, remove bottlenecks, complexity and contradictions, and then lay down a clear law for which is practically feasible, affordable and future-proof? I look forward to a reflection by the proposers and the Minister on this key question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u160	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. There is a question from Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u161	Of course, I am always interested in the reference to Mr Smit's book, which I know and which is about this building, but I was still a little lost in the essence of the question of openness in that metaphor. In fact, we often see the discussion here. In fact, there are two tile wisdoms that we can often use. One is: the better is the enemy of good. The other is: hasty haste is rarely good. Haste rush is not applicable here, I think, but in your speech I listen to something of the first, namely: the better is the enemy of the good. Because if we have to get back to the core, then the good we have now, not good enough, in your analysis. Then I get a certain feeling, because you don't go into all the details. But at the heart of the question is: why do we in the Netherlands have so much trouble with this openness? That's because the main rule is what it is now. The resistance in the Dutch administration to the reversal of that rule is enormous. It shows how long this has lasted. And then you say at the end of this trajectory: we have to get back to the drawing board. What would Mr Talsma then sign so that it is better in his assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u162	As far as I am concerned, it is not so much a question of 'the better as the enemy of the good' or 'hasty haste is rarely good'. When I speak of 'back to the core', it is, as far as I am concerned, what the legislative proposal started with and which I said my group supports. This is an active openness as a starting point, a very well-ordered information system of the government as a starting point and a number of such elements, where you look at whether you need to make a limited list of exceptions and situations in which you do have to actively make things public. Then you put down a bill that complies with those principles and then you start to look critically at whether this is the route, or as the Council of State says: is this exhaustive list wise, since these definitions are no longer compatible, because once a building has been added, an amendment has been adopted and another time something has been removed? In that sense, as far as I am concerned, we do not have to go back to the drawing board. But I would say: go back to the assembly table if that table exists and put all the parts next to each other; put them in the right order and then come up with a story showing that it is feasible and that PLOOI is in order. As far as my group is concerned, that is incredibly valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u163	I will leave it at that, otherwise we will have a more fundamental discussion about what the core should be, and that is, I think, not the intention of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u164	I would like to come back to what Mr Talsma said: not back to the drawing board. I'm hearing concerns in his input. That's what I said. There are concerns, but my question is: is Mr Talsma open to arguments by the proposers and the government if it shows that they are able to remove some of the concerns he has about the feasibility of those concerns I, the VNG and the IPO too, by not letting that part of the law go before when PLOOI is in order and there are connection strategies? Is there another possibility for your party, for your group, to say: the law is as it is; we do not necessarily have to go back to the drawing board, but a commitment from the initiators and, above all, the government about the feasibility could further develop our ideas within the group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u165	I can be very brief about that. I'd almost say, of course. I do not mean that as a cheap answer; I mean that wholeheartedly. That is also the institution of my group. Of course we are willing to listen to the arguments. Otherwise, I wouldn't have asked the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u166	I understand very well that the difficulties in the political process have perhaps become a little more complicated. I have therefore only begun the consolidated text myself. Then you can see very well what the total looks like, even though there are still a lot of questions. My question to Mr Talsma is as follows. Suppose we do what he says: start again with the proceeds of the last nine years. If we wrote it down now, how would we make it? Does Mr Talsma have any indication that this will not lead to the same political process with the same amendment, because everyone wants it to be a bit different? Wouldn't we sit here in nine years' time and ask ourselves: shouldn't we go back to the drawing board?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u167	That's gonna be a lot of coffee dick watching. Frankly, I think there is a good chance, looking at the discussion that has taken place here and in the House of Representatives so far, that it can be done faster. Many political bottlenecks, barriers and barriers have been overcome and there are choices to be made. So I'm not so negative about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u168	But isn't that exactly what happened at the novelle? There was all kinds of resistance and there were all kinds of questions. With this novelle we have tried to see what we can find each other in, because we see the need for it. I understand Mr Talsma's move on the content, because it can be nicer and better. But is he not afraid that he will take back ten steps and that what has been achieved and what is now on the table will unfortunately be removed again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u169	Finally, Mr. Talsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u170	No, I don't share that fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u171	Thank you. Finally, I shall give the floor to Mr Schalk, who was not mentioned on the list of speakers by mistake. Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP, of course after the chair has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u172	I don't get a sound for punishment. Mr President, thank you for your support. I thought I signed up, but we don't know exactly yet. You don't have to give me 12 minutes, but this is beautiful. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by complimenting the proposers and their predecessors for the persistence and perseverance they have shown in working on this bill, including the novelle. After many years, the plenary debate in this Chamber can finally take place. Moreover, I had a little doubt until the last moment whether it would come to this, because what if there had been a breakthrough in the cabinet formation this week? Would that have meant putting the bill back in the fridge for the time being? After all, this happened when the previous cabinet was in office, which is currently decommissioning. But no, the formation is waiting and this bill can now be dealt with. The aim was transparency and openness for the democratic rule of law, citizens, governance and economic developments. Therefore, the initiators want to position access to public information as a right of citizens on the one hand, and as a duty through disclosure on the other hand. The question is, of course, who dares to oppose it? The Act is intended to replace the Wob, which applies only to ministries, administrative bodies of provinces and water authorities and to public-sector bodies. With the Open Government Act, the legislator now wants to extend this scope. But in the field of feasibility, my group has serious doubts. I go back to an expert meeting in 2016, in which Mr. Lonink also reported on behalf of the VNG on a finger exercise for a municipality with between 300,000 and 500,000 inhabitants. So that was five years ago. Then there were about 50 million outgoing official e-mails, 1.5 million letters, 250,000 received letters, 3,800 objections and 400,000 decisions, notifications and amendments. In addition, he reported 2 million treatment points with appointments, views and drafts. Those numbers are, of course, excessive and the costs were considered to be corresponding. With this Woo there are important changes in relation to the Wob. The Wob is based on information on request, and the Woo assumes that everything should, in principle, be placed on the streets. The Wob assumes that it will facilitate citizens' requests as much as possible, and the Woo assumes that the citizen is basically entitled to know everything. For a well-functioning society and a well-functioning public administration, this seems to me to be a scourge. What is wrong with a right of information on request, provided that it is carried out generously, of course? I put this question to both the proposers and the Minister. I could say, of course, that it is a question of theory; in practice it does not have to be very different. Then let me turn that into a few questions. Do we not get all kinds of legal nuisances with this law if an administrative body has not complied with the broad active obligation when no one actually suffered from it? Do we have any idea how many administrative bodies there are? And why should this law also apply to any sub-shop of any government anywhere? Mr. Chairman. We're also discussing a novelle today. That says enough. There was a lot to fix. Indeed, the novelle provides clarification and improvements, particularly in terms of feasibility. That's mainly about duty, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u173	I hear Mr Schalk of the SGP saying that the Wob does not rely on active information. But Article 8 of the Wob is based on that. Does Mr Schalk agree with me that the starting point, as contained in Article 8 of the WOB, is at present simply not being used proactively by governments and that there is indeed a basis for laying down this active public information? Does he agree with me that it is only a relative step towards the new Open Government Act, which lays down this as an effort obligation? Do we agree that this basis is in any case already in Article 8 of the current Wob?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u174	Thank you for this question. I think that Mr Van Hattem is actually referring here to the attitude of the government towards Article 8. A number of colleagues have already stressed today that it is in fact important that there should be a cultural change. Instead of an attitude aimed at ensuring that everyone protects what they want to keep closed, the government must radiate an active, open, transparent attitude in accordance with Article 8 of the Wob, whose literal text I am not so keen on. I agree with him that this is happening too little at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u175	Then it is clear that under the current Wob it is at least the intention to do so, and that this proactive attitude must be better taken up, whether or not this new law comes into existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u176	Maybe that would be a good idea to take a very good look at this Wob and evaluate it. I believe that Mr Rombouts is going to propose the same thing. Maybe that's a wonderful route we should take before we continue with the Open Government Act. Mr. Chairman. I indicated that we were discussing a novelle because there was a lot to fix, but the group still has some concerns about various aspects of disclosure on its own initiative. My group also notes that the Council of State has serious doubts about this. The proposers are waving that, quite frankly, a bit away in the reaction to the Council of State. If it is already opaque for an institution such as the Council of State, what do the authors base their opinion that ordinary citizens will understand it easily? What is the government's view on this? And what do we mean, for example, by what is referred to in Article 3.1: "If this is reasonably possible without disproportionate effort or costs"? There is also a risk that sensitive decisions will have to be made public in the near future, for example because they have been wrongly forgotten in the list of exemptions. In this case, does the administrative body in question have an independent discretion or is it going to open up to everything? Another point I would like to mention is the question of civil service. It does not make it easier for civil servants to record clearly and independently what is necessary for proper decision-making. I followed the part of the debate that took place this afternoon, and I thought to myself: these officials have nowhere to defend themselves. All their documents and so on are interpreted by those who are accountable, as well as by citizens. How can we prevent situations from arising for them, which cause them to refrain from commenting in writing or taking the cautious side? Mr President, concluding. We provide huge information flows, which citizens could drown in and which the responsible people no longer know what to do with. However, I hope, of course, that the proposers and the Minister can convince me that the Woo does not create a paper reality that does not do exactly what the citizen is asking of the government today. I look forward to the answers from the proposers and the government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u177	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u178	The next item is the continuation of the joint examination of the legislative proposals 33328, the Open Government Act, and 35112, the Open Government Amendment Act. We now need the response of the initiators and the government in the first term. I give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to start complimenting you. 'Cause what day is today anyway? Today is the International Day of Universal Access to Information. That is a day once established by the United Nations. We were a bit of a discussion among ourselves about whether one of the speakers would mention this day. That was not the case. I understood that the Minister had it in the introduction. We thought, therefore, that the President planned this debate on this law precisely today. Compliments for that! Mr. Chairman. My second remark is that I noticed that several speakers in the first term made us as initiators. We are no longer, in fact, the initiators of state law. This certainly applies to Mr Sneller, who joined the process only late in the day. We are now speaking on behalf of the House of Representatives. I myself find that very honourable and very special, that also applies to Mr Sneller, I think not least because the law and the amending law were adopted unanimously in the House of Representatives. This happened after a vote error by the PVV, which immediately corrected it. But we are speaking together on behalf of the entire House of Representatives. In any case, we find that very special. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I believe Mrs Gerkens said that she enjoyed the discussion we had earlier today, this afternoon. Actually, we did. They were beautiful, fundamental introductions with important questions that need to be answered. That's what we're gonna do together. I'll kick it off. After that, Mr Sneller will continue with the answer. As an advisor, the Minister will answer the questions she has been asked. I'm going to do it a little bit like I'm going to start with the creation of the Open Government Act, and especially with what happened after the expert measurement of the law here in the First Chamber and the quickscan of ABDTOPConsult. Let me say something about usefulness and necessity. Let me say something about the complexity and the feasibility. Mr Sneller then raised the issue of active disclosure, the decision-makers' mines and other questions, such as the College. The Open Government Act. We have talked a lot recently about this new political culture of governance; some of you have said so in the first term. Especially in the B67 building, this is an important subject of debate and discussion. When I was preparing this debate over the last few days, I had to think about the way in which this law, especially from 2016, came into being in the form that you now have. I actually think it is an example of how this new governance culture should work. It was quite clear, of course, when you had that expert meeting and from the quick scan of ABDTOPConsult, that there were great and legitimate questions about the affordability and feasibility of this law. It was still for a while. There was a cabinet formation coming up. But that is why the government agreement includes the mandate to the Cabinet, from the parties that signed the government agreement, to arrive at an affordable and enforceable Open Government Act. That was special in itself, because my party, at that time as initiator, was not part of the coalition agreement. So a coalition party and an opposition party, based on one rule in the coalition agreement. So it wasn't boarded up. It was not specified what the Open Government Act would look like in government agreement negotiations. But the real assignment... we all share the goal. I noticed that in the first term of all of you. We share the goal that we have a problem with the way the government handles information. How can we ensure that a new Open Government Act is enforceable, improves public sector information handling and also remains affordable? As a financial spokesman, I think that is quite an important argument. In fact, it has become an example of how legislative proposals and policy proposals can also be made interactively. 'Cause what happened? Since then, the initiators have had a lot of discussions with the Home Office, with the minister responsible for this, but certainly also with many implementing organisations, with High Colleges of State, with administrative services, with representatives of local authorities. One thing was clear: how can we ensure that this law is enforceable? Then there's no other way than to do that in conversation with the people who eventually have to implement that law. That is the most important thing we have done in recent years, after, of course, making agreements on some concrete elements of the law. But there was the biggest change. The biggest change was to say goodbye to the register. We, as initiators, were convinced of this at the time. At the moment, the entry of the register is not feasible and not affordable, however much we would like it to be. That really hurts some people, including my party. I believe that Mr Van der Burg mentioned that in the first term of the plenary session in the House of Representatives I said that this was a kind of utopia of the original author. Is there anything left of this Open Government Act? That question was asked a little more on one side of the room than on the other side of the room. We think that law is still very important. Firstly, the principle: the right to public sector information is enshrined in the law. Public sector information belongs to the citizen and not to the government. This is more or less stated in the Constitution but not very precise and it was not included in the Public Administration Act either. So that's really an important principle that we've laid down in the law. But that's not what we're here for. More active disclosure is very important. That was actually in the WOB, namely in Article 8, but in fact very little action was taken. I would also like to mention the strengthening of the obligation to state reasons in Articles 5.1 and 5.3. If information is refused on request, it is the duty of the government to motivate it. I would also like to mention a wider scope of the law, the High Colleges of State and the opinions of the Council of State which are now being made public and are no longer in the drawer for many years. The obligation of care for the quality of the information is laid down in the law. As a citizen and as a parliamentarians, we want to know that if we get information, which is also sound, it is right and it is handled carefully. That duty of care is laid down in the law. Furthermore, the law contains a dejurision by allowing citizens to contact contact contact officers to specify further requests for information. By the way, this has also been tightened up in the legal process in the Lower House. And that's important. I believe it was Mr Rombouts who said: it is also about people and human contact. So it is also important that if there are requests for information, whether they are citizens, journalists or scientists, they can also talk to public authorities about what questions they have. The government can help and then that exact demand for information can also be specified and specified, so that you do not have to get into the legal process that citizens or journalists go to court or, vice versa, that they make very large and specified information requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u180	Thank you for the explanation of the initiators. I have a question about the clarification. I've made a lot of Wob requests in the past. And if it is not clear enough, there is almost always a request from a government body to specify a clarification, with often also the request to contact. So under the current Wob, that's what's happening. So can the initiators indicate what the difference is with what happens under the Woo? Is that just a formalization of that principle or is this really an intrinsic improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u181	I think it is a real improvement, because the contact officers are now also laid down in the law. So every government body must also ensure that there are contact officers. So that will also be people who specialize in the implementation of this law and in talking to citizens, journalists and scientists to find out exactly what information they are asking for and looking for. I am not a Wob expert myself in the sense that I have made Wob requests myself, but my impression is that many public bodies often get a bit rid of it by the informers or by what we informally call the fur collar around drivers. It is quite important that you have specific officials for the implementation of this law who are going to build knowledge and expertise on this and who are therefore also at the service of the citizen who is asking for information. That is something else, I say it somewhat informally than the people who sometimes tend to want to protect the driver in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u182	Then it might indeed be good for the creation of the legal history to indicate at least now that it is the intention of the contact officers to explicitly support the citizen from the position of the applicant, and not to allow contact from the government to take place in order not to have to make too much effort, but really to facilitate the applicant. That's the purpose of the contact officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u183	Sure. That is a valid point. We make legal history here, so what we exchange is ultimately important for the interpretation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u184	I have a question about the beginning of the speech, when the representative of the House of Representatives said very emphatically, up to twice, that at the moment we have that register out. "At the moment." Then I thought, "Is that an announcement that we're going to get the register back as soon as possible?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u185	No, that wasn't necessarily the intention of my answer. I note, and several speakers have pointed out, that in the end there is a political balance between the wishes of different groups, both in the First and Second Chambers, about what they consider to be even more important, which they consider to be less important, where they have tabled amendments which have made the law somewhat different than it was, and where amendments have not made it. There are political preferences in that too. I know that in a number of groups, not least the circle from which I come, there is a good desire to still have the register as utopia on the horizon. If you have a register where all public sector information is reported, then you have transparency, then you know if you are looking for information where you can go to search, and you know if that information is there. And then you'd better let your own demand for information come true. Is that register completely gone? In this legislative proposal, yes, but I will say a few words about a number of institutions that we have also mentioned in this legislative proposal, which can also continue a number of discussions. So maybe we'll have this discussion again in ten years' time and maybe we'll think it's a good idea at the time. But not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u186	Mr Snels noted that it was mellow. I have not heard from many Members that they would like those registers. I see Mr Ganzevoort's hand in the air now, I do not think the listeners can see that, so I'm just calling it "one' and perhaps one or two more parties. I think it is important to know that it is still above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u187	It's not above the market, not with this law. And if we do party politics: D66, GroenLinks and the PVV would like this. There could just be a few more parties. Mr Van der Burg himself referred to the criticism of the Association of Research Journalists. These laws were encouraged and voted in favour of this law by the Open State Foundation and the Dutch Society of Editors. So you can see that journalists think differently about that. For the Association of Research Journalists, the register was very important. It hurt them that it was taken out of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u188	I was one of those people who was rightly corrected because I was talking about "the initiators." But if you are standing here on behalf of the Chamber and not as initiator, I think you can answer my next question with "yes', namely that it is not the wish of the House of Representatives to establish a register and that it is not a matter that is wanted by the House of Representatives in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u189	That's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u190	Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u191	You continue your argument, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u192	I was still working on a list of what this law adds to the Public Administration Act. The qualification of case law, built up in recent years, has been incorporated into this law. There is a road to improving the accessibility of public sector information, including through the multi-annual plan laid down in the law, but also through the advisory college set up. This can advise both on the information system of the government and on public access. We added in the last novel that there is also a mediation function at that advisory college, should conflicts arise between journalists and others who have an interest and public bodies that do not want to share information. You could say that is also an attempt to dejure yourself: so don't go to court quickly, but see if you can mediate and where the problems are. Mr Sneller will make a number of other points on this consultative college. Several of you gave a reflection on whether this law adds anything else. The list I mentioned suggests that this law adds significantly to the Wob. But the main question is of course: will this law ultimately work in practice? I think it was Mr Koole and Mr Rombouts in his own way who had the most beautiful debate about this. In the end, you cannot ignore the fact that there are dilemmas and that there are always dilemmas that you should solve. You try to do that in a law, but you can't always do that. You also have to give room for execution. Then you'll come to the culture change of your own accord. But you can see that tension field. On the one hand, as Mrs Gerkens said, there is frustration about government blackmailing information and, therefore, the reluctance to share public sector information. Journalists have to wait a long time for Wob requests to be granted. So there is a certain distrust from the Wob about how the government responds to information requests from citizens, often journalists, sometimes also scientists. On the other hand, there is, quite rightly, concern as to whether the government can still make policies in a good way, whether there is a certain policy intimacy where officials are protected and can freely conduct the debate and give advice to their directors, whether at national or local level. That tension field is here. Actually, that's been there since the Wob. That is also the case with the Open Government Act. It is quite difficult to give an answer to this with one blow from the hammer and to say that we prefer the officials who must be able to conduct policy freely and to whom we do not ask information and from whom we do not want to know how policy is to be achieved, or, on the other hand, that the government should never be allowed to laze again. That is a dilemma, as there are several dilemmas. So it's always a balance of interests. When sharing information, there is always a balance of interest. That balance of interests lies in the internal reflection, in the way in which we deal with personal policy ideas. I shall come back to that in a moment. How do we deal with tax information? How do we deal with information relating to individuals? How do we deal with information relating to the security of citizens in this country? There's always a balance of interests behind that. The only thing we can do as legislators is to consider in the law how to deal with this balance of interests. That is what we do in this law. This is also the way in which the Public Administration Act has shaped this. However, we are now making different choices on a number of points, without saying that there should be no balance of interests. Then I come to the opinion of the Council of State, the complexity of the legislation. If you give citizens a right, we do so in this law, if you give them the right to information, then you must also, as a legislator, set the limits to where that right goes. That is exactly why this law has become rather complex. That is exactly why we have indicated which categories of information should be actively disclosed. That is why we have indicated, inter alia in that annex to the legislation, why there are exceptions. In that categorization and in those exceptions you specify the limits of the law. You also indicate the limits of the citizen's right to have information, because there may always be other interests that must prevail over the right to information. That's why the law is quite complex. I think that is why the Council of State, certainly in the first opinion, was quite critical of that. Moreover, at that time the Council of State was also extremely critical of the register of information that we finally got out of the law. A second reason why that law is complex, especially with that categorization and with those exceptions, is that the civil servants, the public authorities, ask that. They want to know. They're the ones who have to enforce the law. The information is there for the citizen. The information is there for us as parliamentarians. This usually goes through Article 68 of the Constitution. The information is there for journalists and scientists. But it is the public authorities, the civil servants involved, the employees involved, who have to implement the law. They need to know why they need to actively disclose information at what time, or what the position is when information is requested. We have had incredibly many conversations, precisely from that execution. We started that process from 2016. It was precisely from the talks with the High Colleges of State, with DNB and the AFM, with the representatives of the local authorities that it appeared that they needed handles for what is actually being asked of them. We have laid it down in the law and in the explanatory memorandum. They all want this. That's really my conviction. They want to be more transparent, they want to be open and they want to share information, but they need to know where they stand. I shall come back a little bit to the beginning of my speech. In this sense, this is an example of the new administrative culture that we talk about more often in connection with the temporary Committee on Implementation Organisations in the House of Representatives: we as legislators have to take account of the implementation. In response to Mr Rombouts, that is exactly what we have done. Based on the implementation, we have been wondering over the past four years how we can ensure that this law is a success. It's obvious now. This has become clear in a number of steps. This is not only due to the numerous discussions that we have had, which our staff have had and which the minister's staff have had. We had it checked out, too. In the first instance, we did so with the social cost-benefit analysis, which clarified the costs and benefits, but also with regard to whether there were any bottlenecks. Six months later, when we were more or less in agreement with the cabinet, numerous execution tests were carried out in all public bodies, including local authorities. All of them. Decentralized, too. These execution tests have ultimately revealed what the costs are. They were just a little away from the SMEA, but it was a little more macro-oriented than the decentralised execution tests. They have also made more clear where the law was unclear. The execution tests have been able to make some changes to the exceptions and the categorization. At that time, it became clear what the implementation means for the public authorities. Several of you have asked specific questions about implementation. I am convinced that in recent years there has been very little legislation that has so much and so emphatically dealt with precisely this question: is it ultimately feasible and affordable? There's a clear relationship between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u193	I would like to begin by expressing more than respect for the way in which we get thoughtful, calm and very professional answers to our doubts. If people thought I didn't show enough respect in the first term, they'd make up for it. But there was no lack of respect. If you have checked and double-checked so much that it could work in the implementation, how can it be that in the scientific criticism and in the criticism of the Council of State I have quoted there is such a great doubt and that it has been so clearly appointed? This afternoon, at Mr Koole's request, I repeated a number of times that there is a lot of legislation, with the exception of exception and rule by rule. They doubt whether the principles you have under the law will be achieved. Of course, that's the ultimate goal. May I put a second question to that at once? How great is your belief that you can enforce this with legislation, with rules? Don't you understand what I have said and what I haven't come up with for a moment? I have picked up from experts in the country that to be successful, you should have a good system and good people with the good mentality, and not just rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u194	Those are two perfectly legitimate questions. Thank you for that. I was thinking about this question when I listened to your speech. A long time ago, I was a scientist, too. I got promoted once. Mr Koole will probably recognize that as a scientist, you look at such a complex law in a different way, than if you are an official at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if you are an official in some municipality or if you work at a High College of State. So if you get directly involved, as an enforcer, with this law. I think you look at it differently as a scientist. As a scientist, perhaps just like the Council of State, I would also say: can we not make that simpler? Give me a leaf of paper and we'll make a neat, simple law. We write the starting points and the right to information. We note that all information must be actively disclosed, unless. And at "unless" we also formulate something about information on request. But that doesn't help with the practice. If you don't give a hand to the practice, that would mean that, because it's about balancing interests, you're in conflict over and over again. Conflicts can only be resolved in the Dutch rule of law by the judge. We have seen this for the past twenty, thirty years, slowly but surely at the Wob, which ultimately means that the Wob no longer works. I think that the scientist's perspective, perhaps a little bit from the ivory tower, is different from all those people who work in the public bodies that have to implement this law. Shall I also address the second question? I'm sorry if I'm a little tall on dust. The follow-up question is, of course, cultural change. Do you need rules for a culture change? I think saying that we have to change culture is actually pretty empty. Culture change without standards, without rules, without agreements is a rather gratuite remark. I'm also a spokesperson for child care and tax administration. A variety of cultural programmes are also being rolled out in the Tax Administration. The culture at the IRS needs to be improved. And rightly so. But that is said and a lot of people tend to sit back in the event of cultural change. Okay, so you're gonna change my culture. You're gonna change the way I do my job. You're gonna change the way I deal with the people I work for, the citizens. It's not gonna happen on its own. That's an interaction. It interacts with examples: administrators, ministers and mayors who give an example of how to deal with information and citizens differently. It is clear what is actually being asked of all those civil servants who have to implement that law. In my opinion, this interaction ultimately involves cultural change. One can't do without the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u195	I fully agree with that last sentence. By the way, it stays quiet in this room, where so many scientists have been put away by the initiator, of: that is only part of life. I agree with him. But my speech was built on the experience of scientists, from members of the Council of State. many of them are former administrators, who also know how the practice works... and my own experiences from 34, 40 years of public administration. I fully understand that Mr Snels says: it must be a mix of mentality and standards. But what I would like to highlight once again is whether or not this includes large investments. Unfortunately, that is just as expensive for the time being to build a system for the central and decentralised government to store the documents properly, so that you can easily access them. Very easy and perhaps even unsolicited, without having asked for authorisation from an administrative body. Because all the public sector information is actually ours and not just that driver's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u196	On that last question, I almost get associations with the register for public sector information again, and Mr Van der Burg does not want me to say anything about it anymore. However, in the discussion we had on that information register, it was quite clear that the investments needed for this, not just in terms of money, gave rise to two problems. In my opinion, that was the case with ABDTOPConsult with that register. That is a bit like your proposal: one digital system for all public sector information, independently of the register.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's a lot of money, 1 billion a year. Secondly, and I think that was a much bigger problem, it requires a great digital reorganisation of the government. That would be a big digital experiment. If I look at the Tax Administration again from my own experience as a spokesman for finance and taxation: the Tax Administration is still working with an information system from 1984. Only with the Tax Administration there are 900 different ICT applications. For years we have been working for the Tax Administration alone! To reorganise the ICT infrastructure and get it back up-to-date. In fact, your request and your question, which I do understand, because that too is a dot on the horizon that you must put there, is now impossible to carry out. But perhaps the Minister will answer that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u197	Finally, Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u198	I didn't ask for a register at all. I'm talking about a system that can be filled. How to fill it is to work out. It's also up to the drivers to put what in there. Of course, you can set standards for that, but do you really believe you can come there with just standards, so legislation, and change of governance culture? I really think that's my thesis, maybe you want to respond to it one more time... that you have to invest both in the human mentality of drivers and in the technique with which things can be found quickly. Because that whole exercise at VWS last year came from the fact that it wasn't properly stored.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u199	I made the comparison with the register not because of the register itself, but because there was also one system necessary for that register. And that even before the register one system should have been built, we would have accepted this law in the First Chamber four or five years ago. That would not have been possible at the time. As right as your question is, I think that is a step too quickly in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u200	I have a comment and a question. I have a comment about the scientists; I was almost challenged to it. Where are they? One of the proposers said that science speaks only a little from an ivory tower and that practice is different. I do not speak on behalf of science, but certainly the empirical scientists will never ask the question "we can make this easier" as you put it. They will say: if simplicity is the goal, can we achieve it and, if so, how? That's the scientific question. Isn't that much closer to what you've been trying to do in practice? In that sense, I want to defend science. The question is about the official. It's in a tension field. Some of the complex legislation is there because the officials want it to be. Much has also been said about cultural change. My question is: shouldn't you be very committed to removing the fear of civil servants when they figure things out and maybe become public later? Maybe one of the proposers will come up here later. But the point is that that fear is unjustified. If civil servants do their job well, figure things out and do it with business-personal policy notes and other business, then it's not bad at all if that becomes an audience. On the contrary, people would say: what do these officials do their job well? So isn't it also a requirement, if this law is passed, to have that conversation widely with civil servants at all levels, in the sense of: people, don't be afraid to do your job; when it comes out, can you only be proud of it if you do it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u201	Thanks for the question. By the way, I made that remark about scientists in their ivory tower with a smile, but it cannot be seen in the Acts. But I do now. I think that the analysis is often made wrong, namely that internal reflection and personal policy concepts are so defined in the Wob and now in the Open Government Act, adapted, inter alia, by the CDA amendment, as if that definition was intended to protect the directors. That's not true. The way in which we formulated that internal reflection and personal policy view is precisely to protect the civil servant. The official must be free to do his job. That doesn't mean that that information shouldn't go public. Mr Sneller and I often refer to the Compliance Act and to Understanding Quality, the government programme of recent years in order to make policy more rational. Then you need to know what the purpose of the law is. What is the effectiveness? What is the effectiveness? Have any alternatives been considered? We hardly ever see that in legislation and policy proposals. You'll see when you get the decision notes. That's what the cabinet started now. You have already received a number of them, at least one. In the Lower House I have already received several at the Tax Plan, a whole series. Then you will indeed see what considerations are being made. What aspects are involved in legislation? Which solutions can you choose? Then you'll also get the notes of the ruler, in the sense of "this needs to be sorted out further," "I don't agree with this," "I'd like to have a conversation about this," "can you explain this again?" or "can this be investigated again?'. Understanding that process is important not only for a transparent government, a government that shows how it makes policy, and for power and counterpower, but it is also important to achieve rational policy, better policy and accountability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u202	I welcome this answer. I understand that, too. My question was whether, in addition to the introduction of the law, which in fact seeks to protect officials rather than protect them, there is no need for a route at all levels in bureaucracy, with officials. Isn't that necessary to show that it's just protective when things go well, when they go as they should go, as the law means? Where this does not happen and where they want to keep the ruler out of the wind, it is precisely a cultural change that is needed. If this law is passed, are the proposers prepared, as I would ask the Minister, to make a different effort in addition to the law and to initiate such talks within the civil service? But maybe they've been started a long time. I'd love to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u203	My perception is that they've been triggered. Of course, this has something to do with the parliamentary interrogation committee on childcare allowances. I was involved as a spokesperson, so I know that file very well. The cabinet has not only drawn the hardest conclusion, namely to quit. It has also led to a substantive debate and a variety of cabinet proposals in order to improve this legislation on surcharges and the legal protection of citizens and to improve the government's thinking about how it deals with information. That has two aspects that sometimes compete with each other. One, that information management needs to be put in order. Mr Sneller is going to tell us a little bit more about that. He's really out of order. It's really not in order; we'll see that at the IRS. He's gotta get right. That is what the cabinet is now paying out a great deal of money for, and I am very pleased about that. That's one element. The second element is the following. I was just making a comment about scientists. Now I'm going to make a comment about drivers. It is not strange for drivers to occasionally tend to ask whether it is necessary to share certain information, in the sense of: I might get into trouble with this, because this is information that criticises my policy. That mechanism works like this. That's human in drivers. Drivers are also people and do not necessarily have to be able to cope with criticism, especially when critical questions are asked by the outside world, journalists, scientists or citizens. So you have to give civil servants and people involved in the directors the opportunity, indeed, and that is what the Cabinet is doing to continue to advise in all openness on the basis of facts, knowledge and experience, but not necessarily to keep the driver out of the wind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u204	Mr Snels gave a nice outline of how this is going when he sees tax documents. I get that. I think that a Member of Parliament who dives into those documents assumes that there are officials who come up with all kinds of proposals, that the Minister responds to them and so on. But we all know how short the fuse is in the municipalities. There, officials give advice to aldermen or the mayor who are very displeased with citizens, and these officials do not look at the way in which such a process should be brought to a successful conclusion. So this official has a sense of that: I'm about to be looked at. Isn't that a consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u205	That's not necessarily a consideration, but that's a concern. That is not a concern that is necessarily directly related to this bill, because we are trying to do everything we can to protect the security of the official. But you can see it, of course. That is perhaps the cultural change that we are asking for from administrators, parliamentarians and representatives of the people, whether it is here or in the city council. Look, the driver is ultimately responsible. The driver must be accountable for the choices he makes. The driver shall make those choices on the basis of advice from officials. Those officials are anonymized. Officials do not exist for me as Members of Parliament; I sometimes use this example when we once again have discussions about officials who have made mistakes, for example with regard to child care allowances. I do not want to have a public debate with the officials either. I'm having the debate with rulers. Directors are responsible for the proper functioning of the official organisation. That is the cultural change we are asking for. In that case, the directors must stand for the administrative services, because they can also make mistakes and give false advice. This is necessary for this common cultural change. That's what I'm worried about, apart from this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u206	I do not know exactly how many officials there are in Mrs Ollongren's ministry, but it is not so difficult to make them anonymous. But it is precisely in local situations that it is quite clear which official is picking on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u207	Yeah, but it's also crystal clear who the alderman is. It's the alderman's job to stand before his officials. It is the task of the alderman to ensure that an official can do his job. It's the alderman's job to answer for the choices he makes. This is about the right to information and about power and counterpower. It is important that we get a better idea of how policies are being implemented. This could be interesting for that. Sometimes it is information that is actively revealed, but sometimes it is also information that is to be requested, so that the outside world, citizens and journalists get an idea of how policy choices are made by directors. This is important from a democratic point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u208	I would like to support the defender of the proposal and ask a question on this to confirm it, because I fully agree with it. A culture of openness also asks me to do so, but I would like to be confirmed in this report that administrators, ministers, aldermen or mayors, say: 'Oh, please, speak to me.' As soon as they find out that a resident or a representative of the people is doing differently, they must act and say: this is not how it works here; you can address me and that is what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u209	Exactly, and so is the people's representatives, the city council members. They have, on behalf of the citizens, the debate with the directors, the aldermen or the mayor. That is how our system works and how our democratic rule of law works. But information and policy preparation do play a role in that democratic rule of law. I fully agree with Mr Koole that it is okay if a tip of the veil is lifted, so that it becomes clear how advice is produced and what elements, information, facts and circumstances have played a role in this. This gives an insight into the decisions taken by directors and can help citizens to reflect on how they represent a political position vis-à-vis the directors they wish to control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u210	May I ask an informative question, Mr. Snels? You will be speaking for an hour in your term and two more speakers will be present. Are you booking any progress yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u211	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Because of all these interruptions, I've automatically answered a lot of questions. I think I can be done in a moment, but I also notice that there is some enthusiasm in answering the questions. Maybe that's because I like to convince people who aren't convinced yet. Mr. Chairman. We were talking about this culture change. I would like to say a few words about this. The feasibility and cultural change work directly with each other. If we ask all officials who have to implement this law to ensure that the information is actively disclosed or made public when requested, they are also the bearers of cultural change. That's why we changed this law from 2016. If they do not believe in this law or standards and do not ask for a clarification of the law, it is difficult to ask them to change their culture. That is also a bit the answer I gave Mr Rombouts. Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, already talked about these policy recommendations. It was Mr Backer who asked the question: shouldn't that ultimately be the final version of the opinion? Here too, I would say: if only it were that easy. This is not how policy is made automatically, especially when it comes to complex legislation and complex decisions. I haven't only been a scientist, but I've also been walking around a department for a few years. Then you know that in policy preparation, especially in the case of legislation, you get numerous advice and notes from the official service. That is not one linear path where we start at zero and build legislation step by step with all the opinions, and finally we have the final note from the officials, which leads to a decision that should lead to legislation. It's all about punches and horns and punches. This goes from one aspect of legislation on the one hand, for which information from certain experts from a department must be requested, to another aspect, to new information, new research and new aspects, such as international law, on the basis of which legislation is made. That is also why I mentioned just the example of the Tax Plan, which was sent to the States General by the Millions Note. As a spokesperson, I have already seen a whole series of decision notes there, which I found extremely interesting. You can see that there are already several decision notes for one of these legislative proposals, because there are also several aspects to this one legislative proposal. So you don't have one final version of a decision note that needs to be shared or not. So you cannot automatically say that in the end only the final version can be requested. What I do think is very good, of course, is a commitment from the cabinet in connection with the child care allowance affair..... is that the cabinet itself has taken these steps to at least inform the States-General with those decision notes on the basis of which opinions the decisions have been taken. I must say that I think that is a real step forward. It's experimenting from the department. It will be quite a job as official organisations to think about how you do it a bit neatly, because there is of course a lot of information going around in departments. But I think it's a big step forward. It also brings about a cultural change in departments. Because these officials are now making policies, making proposals, because they are also giving information to Parliament. I also think it will improve decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u212	It's ironic, though, that the IRS is so in the spotlight. It's the paying part of the Tax Administration that's in the spotlight, but I'm also the spokesman for Finance, so I'm familiar with the preliminary trajectory of taxes in the cashier's section rather than in any other legislation, has started the execution test and giving more detailed information on whether or not something is feasible; that's a big profit. This also creates dilemmas immediately, because it makes some policy options, which are so politically attractive, impossible to implement. That's an introduction. I think I understand what you're saying about these different versions: they're not versions, they're steps. What I would like to add, because it is also important for the interpretation of the law, is that the ruler ultimately weighs into account when making policy choices Why do these taxes? It could explain well by properly naming the unchosen options. I say this because it is not customary, because the cabinet has reached one point. I think that would be very helpful both in the review report, which also applies to municipal councils and aldermen, as well as to a part of the concern about the official who would be in the wind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u213	No, it isn't. Look, I think there's two routes coming together here. That is, on the one hand, the way in which the government, and certainly the government, now deals with the information in those decision-making papers. On the other hand, this is the trajectory of how we ensure that, legally required by the Compliance Act, we map policy alternatives and also map out how effective and effective these different policy alternatives are. That's where it's gonna fail. It has not yet been sufficiently understood by policy makers on departments that it is important for policies that ultimately you also map out that there are different alternatives. If these two things come together, then we will indeed eventually, probably utopianly again, gain more insight into policy preparation, so what choices have been made and what alternatives have been rejected, with what arguments, which makes policy better. So we can give the taxpayer more value for his money, for the tax euro he pays for all the 360 billion we spend, and we will also have better accountability for the choices. It is therefore more democratic and the quality of the policy could also improve. I think civil servants themselves think this is a leap forward. Mr. Chairman. I think I've had a lot of questions. I think I have even answered the questions about personal policy ideas. Yeah, I answered that. It is not about the protection of drivers; it is about the protection of civil servants. I think I've given enough answers in my part of the story. Then Mr Sneller can take it from me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u214	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I would like to give the floor to Mr Sneller, who will also speak on behalf of the Second Chamber of the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels has not only answered his own questions, but also a large part of the questions that were addressed to me for the answer. So that only matters. I also think that is right, because Mr Snels has been wearing this torch for about four years, when I was given it only three weeks ago. Earlier this year, I was simply the spokesman on behalf of the D66 Group at the plenary session in the House of Representatives, so it is also an honour for me to be here. I have seen the preparation on your part, in particular the written one. I have to say that in the Lower House it is a little weak with the co-legislative task. For us it is of course often: law passed, he goes on to the First Chamber and we hear it once when that law has been passed, unparliamentaryly said. So it was also nice for me to read how thorough the preparation is here. It concerns the preparation of questions of principle, such as Mr Rombouts, but also the preparation of small but not insignificant questions which Mr Ganzevoort mentioned in his term, as well as those of the many definitions that Mr Koole has put forward. I think it's important. It has already been said how relevant the legal history and parliamentary history are to the interpretation of these concepts, especially in a subject where case law is so important in the end. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with information management. Then I will say something about active disclosure and also about the entry into force of the famous PLOOI, which the outside world has never heard of. Then I will deal with the decision-makers, the international context, including Tromsø, and a number of other questions. Mr Rombouts asked whether it was not also investing in technology. Mr Snels went around that at first, but later he did say that there is now a lot of investment. As Mr van der Linden said in his term, he could have done so under the Wob. But we now have to find that, and the initiators for us ten years ago also found that the Parliamentary interrogation committee's child care allowance did not happen or did not do enough. As a result, such late maintenance has been achieved in the quality of the information system at the state level. And in different places else, you see the same thing. I would also like to quote the Acts or at least the written examination of the register in the House of Representatives. As a long-term objective, the register would fit perfectly into the multiannual plan. That is what the initiators at the time said. In that sense it is indeed the dot on the horizon. Mr Talsma said: should it not be well in order for this information system to be the starting point if we were to reorganise the Public Administration Act? It can't just be that this is the starting point, if it isn't now. I believe that you can write that down legally, but in the end this will be the end of many hard efforts that will indeed require very substantial investments, although not as much as in the original Open Government Act. It is therefore indeed an objective of this law. But this law mainly provides the instruments for this purpose and lays down how to get there, namely in that multiannual plan. We are convinced that this planned approach is necessary, because otherwise you will have the risk of watering down in a new Chamber with new spokesmen, new priorities and new crises in five years' time. That multiannual plan is precisely a way of securing this. Mr Van Hattem also asked: which stick is behind the door and what role do we see for representatives of the people? On the one hand, if this law is adopted, the Minister must develop those multi-annual plans. There's an advisory board. There were few questions about this in the first term, but I think this can play a very important role. That will advise you to do so. That advice is also public. Then it is up to the Second and First Chambers, and external pressure, to ask: is it ambitious enough? Are you sure it's going far enough? Is there enough sense of urgency in it? Does that apply to the different parts? This is at a state level, but of course there are also partial plans for, for example, the city council or for provinces. These are a number of sticks behind the door; they are there indeed. We, you, will have an important role to play in ensuring that this is done in the near future. But it's starting with that legal obligation to draw it up. That advisory board, the independent supervisor... it hasn't become an information commissioner. Some would have liked that; me too in a previous life. But there is an independent advisory college that can tell you how it looks at it. That can be requested and unsolicited. Let's see why it's not to be underestimated. It's not just: build a nice software system and then it's done. It is redesigning a number of very important processes, for example at file level. How do you ensure that information flows run? How do you categorize e-mails? Are you just putting it in a policy officer's inbox, or is it already thought out in the front that they're going to hang under a file in this and this way with certain metadata? But you also look at document level, especially in the case of high-frequency decisions: what paragraph always contains the personal data? You can arrange in advance that they can be crossed out, so that, if the document is generated, there is also a privacy-proof variant that can be actively made public. But that takes a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u216	Thanks for the answer so far. I listened with interest, also to the point of that stick behind the door for both the applicant and the citizen as well as the representative of the people. Such a consultative college can indeed be useful. The point is that, of course, an advisory body will also look at what lies with legislation and case law. Now the case is that most of the existing case law of the Wob passes to the Open Government Act. If there is no new legal stick behind the door to strengthen active disclosure, and there are no other measures to put the applicant in a better position, such a consultative body will only deliver the opinion that it cannot be helped further under existing case law and law and regulation. I am more looking for that legal stick behind the door, so that the applicant is also more in position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u217	I'm going to answer that question in two ways. On the one hand, there was just a moment's discussion about the question of whether it is unwillingness or ignorance that certain things are not made public or are not made public in good time? If we assume that it is incomprehension of the information economy.......................................................................................................................................................................................... But the main aim is to get the information system in order. That'll be the touchstone for the advisory board. Mr Backer's question was whether incomplete or inadequate information is a legitimate reason for refusal. As far as we are concerned, certainly not after the entry into force of this active disclosure. I'll tell you more about that in a minute. The question put by Mr Van Hattem concerns, secondly, the legal standard for active disclosure. For that, the advisory board, as well as every judge, will soon have a new law that says that active disclosure is the norm. We have the commitment in Article 3.1. I shall say a little more about this to Mrs Baay in a moment. But we also have an obligation for a lot of categories to do it. That legal obligation will soon be in the hands of the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u218	Then it is also very important for the history of law that we now find that the stick is behind the door that the advisory board can use. I have quoted several examples of consultative bodies and all kinds of other institutions, now saying: 'They are administrative consultations. It's internal deliberation. We cannot give the documents, because they are internal policy concepts." But often they are the views of directors. With regard to this active disclosure obligation, which is specifically about the directors and not about the officials, can we really see that this step is being taken and that if it comes to an advisory committee, the intention of this law is that such documents should be made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u219	Mr Van Hattem is right that when it comes to active disclosure, it is the advisory college that will say something about it rather than the judge. In particular, in the case of passive disclosure, the courts will apply the new standards and legal standards. Mr Van Hattem's questions focused on the security regions and the climate tables. The questions on migration and regional tables will be answered by the Minister. As far as the security regions are concerned, this has indeed changed. Thanks to an amendment from the House of Representatives, common regulations will soon be included. So then some of the documents you mentioned can be made public. These climate tables are not in themselves an administrative body, but there are participants who are administrative bodies. So the information that lies with them will indeed become public. I do not know those documents myself and cannot therefore judge what is or is not in them, what has been wiped away and what has been provided. In any case, I cannot think of one-two-three reasons why, for example, the names of participants should be omitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u220	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u221	Then we come to an important principle for the proper functioning of this new Open Government Act. The principle is: if there is a director, i.e. an alderman or a deputy, who from his position participates in a consultation, whether that is with a private organisation such as the IPO or the VNG, or a consultation table or a security council, then because he operates from this position, from that role everything that lies underneath it, under the Open Government Act and under the possibility of active disclosure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u222	Yes, with underlining of "in that role" and unless there is an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u223	I have a brief question for Mr Sneller. The example of a deputy or alderman is mentioned. I said in my contribution that a deputy or alderman is not an administrative body. Right? This law refers to administrative bodies, doesn't it? So if an alderman is in such an informal consultation, is it under this law? If so, what about the definition of an administrative body?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u224	Thank you for this question. It's about where the document is based. If it rests with the administrative board, it falls under it. It is not necessarily the administrative body that is represented there, but if it is there it is covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u225	That is how I understood it, but I thought Mr Van Hattem's commitment was that an alderman would go to such informal consultations, such as a climate table, the pieces that are present there and come into the hands of the alderman, fall under the Woo. But that's not true, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u226	No, unless they are subsequently placed under the administrative body to which the alderman belongs. That may also be the question you raised about formal decision-making, but these are more than the internal opinions that would have been drawn up for that purpose. I don't know if that's what you're talking about. But if you are referring to the deputy as mentioned in paragraph 3, then I also refer to what we have said about it in the written reply. This is an amendment that has been incorporated, perhaps a little unsatisfied, but it also takes a broader view of the decision-making process not only of the College of Deputy States but also of individual delegates, aldermen and ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u227	It remains somewhat unfortunate that where the law sees administrative bodies then suddenly aldermen and delegates are raised while all the others are actually administrative bodies. That's a little unhappy, but all right, I got the answer. Apparently, it's part of it. If an alderman only acquires something as part of the administrative board, it rests with the administrative board and is therefore part of the Woo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u228	In the first variant, if it rests with the administrative body, it is covered by the Woo, under this specific article. If it is involved in the phrase "in formal administrative decision-making" which you yourself quoted, it is covered by that article. And then it doesn't even have to be with the administrative board anymore, but it's about what the individual deputy, alderman or minister has.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u229	Let's get to the point. An alderman, a deputy or a minister who has documents in his role, is always acting on behalf of that administrative body, isn't he? He's not an alderman in an individual capacity. A person shall be present on behalf of the administrative body to which he is a member in a consultation or a dome. So someone is always there because of the function of the college. By definition, then, it is covered by that administrative body.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u230	I feel like I'm being lured into a side street, so let me come back to this in second term. The main rule is: if it rests with the administrative body, it is covered by the Woo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u231	Not a side street as far as I am concerned, but this question because I do not understand it at all anymore. Does that also mean that if that fictitious alderman who goes to a particular consultation table or I know a lot what, decides not to take the documents, then suddenly they are not covered by the Woo, because they are not held by the administrative board? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u232	Maybe I should go into the question of what "rest" means. Look, it's not: if it's not in the information management system, it's not there. It is true that if it is poorly archived in the basement, it can rest there. Even in Article 4.2 there is a certain obligation to search for others. So it's not as strict as you define it now. Then a question was asked about VWS, about the recent Wob requests there and how that was handled. Mr Snels and I did indeed ask questions about this last year, as ordinary spokesmen, I shall say. The question was: is it a little naive to think that things would have gone differently under the Woo? That goes back to the question: is there any unwillingness or incompetence? I can see from the outside that 100 lawyers are about to look at these documents as of October. Not necessarily by looking for the documents to see if they can be found, but also by looking at what needs to be omitted and what can be made public on the basis of the exceptions, the competitive information and so on. But what I think, at least some time from now, will be different under the Woo, is that the information system as such is better in order. If it is right, there has also been better thought in advance about how to organise this information at document level, but also about the whole approach to the corona crisis, if that information is to be made public in the near future. Then you need much less time to go through all the decisions and all the documents that have been taken afterwards and to decide what can and cannot be made public. Because that's the main bottleneck right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u233	Does the latter mean that Mr Sneller says that all the documents that enter those systems already have the black paint?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u234	In a way, as I asked in response to previous questions. If you know in advance that this paragraph always contains the contractor's home address, I'll just mention something, then you know that if you go public, that macro, that part of the model, will be wiped out. In that sense, you could say that it will indeed be privacy by design and that it will soon be wiped out in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u235	Of course, that saves the privacy sensitive things, but it means that the person who makes the document must already indicate: pay attention, that and that must come out, because once I have produced it, it becomes public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u236	Yeah, it's gonna be in the law about what documents they are. Mr Snels has just explained that it is important that some of these rules are very detailed, so that they can then be operationalised by the people in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u237	I agree with the defender that it is framed in advance and that better thought could be given to it. But isn't the defender afraid that by thinking about it much more in advance, by unwillingness or by other wishes, it will be better to think in advance about how this cannot be made public? With that detailed regulation, the Woo might be more likely to avoid that, if you really don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u238	I do not have that fear, because in the future the grounds for exception would not, by definition, allow more room to be left out. In fact, there are a number of reasons to think that the scope will be reduced in the exceptions. Mr Snels also said that this follows from the law. I have a feeling that more information will soon become public rather than less. Then I'll get to that active disclosure. Maybe I can take away some of the concerns about that. The entry into force states that if the law is adopted and signed, it will enter into force six months after its entry into force in the Official Journal. This does not apply to active disclosure. It states that a separate date of entry into force can be determined for each category of documents by Royal Decree. It also states that, by ministerial arrangement, certain administrative bodies may be delayed for a little longer because they are not ready. That is, on the one hand, to get the processes in order internally. We just talked about that. But that also applies to the aforementioned Platform Open Public Sector Information. Mr Van der Burg has already referred to the reports from the territorial authorities and I have heard that, in this case, this can lead to delays not for itself but on behalf of the local authorities. That is why the phased introduction was conceived. I understand that they need their time, and at the same time I see the tension that we need to ensure that the PLOOI is not in order to become a reason to delay unnecessarily. This also means that I support them by encouraging the Minister to make progress. I can see progress in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u239	It was said, "I understand that they need their time to." But if I understand the question of VNG and IPO correctly, it is not so much that 'they need their time to change', but they are afraid that 'they', in this case in The Hague, also use PLOOI and seize the PLOOI system that they, being the VNG, municipalities and provinces in this case, will be compromised. In my opinion, the fear of VNG and IPO is that it is not so much about their preparation, but about their use in The Hague. Did I get that correctly? If so, then there is a follow-up question for the Minister to include this in her schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u240	Mr Van der Burg fully understood. I understand on the one hand. Some municipalities will still need time to put this in place internally. Then they say: we do need PLOOI, because otherwise we cannot do this. If this law is passed, the phased introduction does not mean that it must be fully completed after six months. But we share the sense of urgency. Let's worry... Let the Minister make sure it's in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u241	I am a little surprised that VNG and IPO, as private-law organisations, are being excluded from this law. At the same time, they are part of this debate, because they express their concerns. They can do that in themselves, but that requires a bit of discussion about what role these organisations are going to play in the implementation of this law. The point is that there is an implementation organisation for it, BET12, from the IPO. From several provinces there are implementation tasks of provinces assigned to one organisation covered by the IPO. There, therefore, a public implementation task is placed under a private-law organisation. However, I would like to hear from the defenders of the bill, so I call you now whether it is indeed the intention that these implementing organisations, which have been set up under public law but are governed by private law, should nevertheless fall under the scope of the Open Government Act. That seems to me to be a very relevant question for the feasibility of this law. We'll have to establish that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u242	Then I'm gonna give you a solid answer to that later tonight. Then I come to Mr Ganzevoort's question on the opinions of the Council of State. He said: should it not be so that there will never be direct disclosure on future entry into force. In my view, it is important that, if there can be anticipating effects, this clause can exceptionally be invoked. At the same time, it is indeed up to the Minister to ask for this in the request for an opinion. The Council of State itself cannot deviate from that, but can of course say in its opinion that we should not have done so and we believe that it can simply become public. Then it's up to the Rooms to find something. I fully agree with Mr Ganzevoort that this is for strict exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u243	The latter is indeed very nice. It's obvious, too. Mr Sneller is talking about the anticipation. My interpretation is that this could only apply retroactively. Does Mr Sneller share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u244	Some legislative proposals also have retroactive effect up to the time of submission. If you also mean that category, I do think that is the only category. You also mentioned emergency laws. I do not quite see how they could be covered, unless the urgency procedure is really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u245	We've had the law for Saint Eustatius. If information had been leaked out there before, it would have been very complicated. Everyone understands that's necessary. This also applies to a law which comes into force retroactively at the time of filing. Everyone understands that there too. But if there is still time between the time of adoption of the law and the moment of entry into force, there is still a possibility of anticipating behaviour. My interpretation is that that does not, by definition, lend itself to this clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u246	No, it's the retroactivity in particular. I very much agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u247	Another question I have asked is whether if the Council of State considers that such a request is not relevant, which actually undermines the validity of the government's request. Is that a good interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u248	According to this wording, the Council of State does not have the freedom to make it public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u249	No, not according to the literal text. When the Council of State says internally, because we know that at that time it should not be public, the government should say: we should not do that, because there is already a discussion about this and we are actually creating a new problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u250	Perhaps Mr Ganzevoort means 'internal' in fact 'informal'. I think they can just write that down in the advice. When that comes to the Chambers, we say that the government should be more cautious, or even more reluctant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u251	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u252	It would help me to interpret the law if we found that in cases where the Council of State does not agree with a request for confidentiality by the government, the government should not actually make that request. It is not in the text as such, but when it comes to the interpretation of the law you can say that the government should not make that request. Unless they come up with some very serious arguments. I cannot imagine the Council of State saying: we do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u253	It is something that should already be addressed in the request for advice by the government if it asks for advice. It is difficult for the Council of State to go back and ask for a new request for advice. Because that is the procedure that you propose: that the question of advice should go back and forth, while the relationship between the Council of State and the Government is, in my opinion, that one should ask for advice and give the other advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u254	I agree with Mr Ganzevoort's interpretation and your reply. I am actually only thinking about taxation. That's the only case I made it in. Is that your experience, too? I'll take a look at Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u255	That is the only thing we have been preparing for, but I do not rule out the possibility of something coming up that may also belong to this category.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u256	State security, perhaps. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u257	Ms Baay of 50PLUS asked why Article 3.1, on the obligation to publish, was further weakened in relation to Article 8 of the Public Participation Act. Our impression is that this is an equal formulation and that it has not necessarily been watered down. Article 3.3 sets out the real obligation to disclose certain categories. So it goes beyond Article 8 of the Wob. That's right there. What Mrs Baay has seen as an escape is rather a more detailed implementation of that commitment. He doesn't necessarily want to take that off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u258	I don't see it that way. It says very clearly "without disproportionate effort or cost is reasonably possible." Of course, this creates two conditions that you, as an administrative body, can possibly see as an escape.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u259	That wording comes from one of the previous versions. It was more open-minded. In addition, the criticism was that you can always make everything public, as long as you have enough money. In the context of the feasibility described by Mr Snels, this wording has been chosen. This creates a balance. It is certainly not intended that nothing should be made public because it costs too much money. But there are categories of information in which disclosure costs a lot of money, whereas it does not produce the same amount. For the categories covered by Article 3.1, this may be invoked. This does not apply to the categories covered by 3.3. There is simply an obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u260	Then it's clear. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u261	Mr Schalk asked: what if there was an active disclosure obligation but it was forgotten? Then there is no legal remedy open. That was also my correction of myself towards Mr Van Hattem, but then the advisory board can say what is necessary. Then there is simply an appeal to the passive side open. It is therefore up to the advisory college, if this is more often seen from research or signals, to say something about this publicly to the government and/or the Chambers. Then either we or the government can figure out what to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u262	My question was mainly about when it was forgotten to include it in the list of exemptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u263	What does Mr Schalk mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u264	If disclosure has not taken place and subsequently it appears that it would have been subject to exemptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u265	So if it was made public, but didn't need to be made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u266	I'm making it very complicated. Suppose that something is not made public but that it is requested and that the administrative body can prove that it should actually be covered by those exemptions, but that is forgotten because it is working on a restrictive list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u267	If requested, we will look into Articles 5.1 and 5.2 in the regime of passive disclosure. Then that's the regime. This is a very different regime from the one that applies to active disclosure. Then I come to Mr Koole, who rightly asked about the capacity of the WRR's fine report on this subject. On the one hand, I am thinking of the answers given by Mr Van der Linden. PLOOI can work as a kind of Google variant in the long term. Then you can actually just dunk and watch in there. Next, all administrative bodies will also have contact persons to whom the question can be asked and who can help with information available on this matter. So it can also be made more manageable. Then there is the special role for professional intermediaries, in particular the media. But I fully agree with him when he says that it may be a necessary condition, but not a sufficient condition, to achieve the ambitions expressed about informed citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u268	Just to clarify, is contact with a special contact also possible for a simple citizen, even if he doesn't make a Woo request, but just comes with publicly accessible information that he doesn't understand? Can he go to a contact? It cannot then say: no request has been made, so you are inadmissible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u269	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u270	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u271	Yes. The short answer is yes. Let me do that this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u272	However, I have a question on the procedural side of when or not a request is made. Someone wants information from the government and says: I want that information, that document or those documents. However, he does not expressly state that this is a request based on the Open Government Act. What is the administrative consequence of this within the new system of the Open Government Act? Should it or should it not be regarded as a formal request? What does that mean for the legal procedure that can follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u273	It is my impression that there is no need to refer explicitly to the Woo. I had not noted this question in the first place. Let me confirm this in the second term. Then I'll come to the decision-makers' mines. It was rightly said that, internationally, we do not score in the right row. That's about the legal term. Mr Van der Linden's question was: is that ambition, initiators? I understand that question very well, because if you look at other countries, with all the nuances that Mr Koole rightly put in and which are also in the Minister's letter, then there are countries that are doing it faster. My impression is, and this is also what the RTL research quoted by Mr Van der Linden shows, that it is not so much about that legal term. I would have liked it to have been shorter and I will say in a moment how I think that could develop in the future. But a much bigger problem is the signals about the delays, which just happen too often. We are convinced that, if the information system is better in order, the incompetence will disappear and that it will be easier to respond more quickly to certain requests, so that the overruns will also decrease. Apart from all the other instruments introduced into the law, I think that, for example, the advisory board can also play a role in monitoring what is going on with these actual exceedances. It can, for example, report or advise on this. If we were to say at some point: now the information system is sufficiently in order, then you could also consider whether that legal period could not be reduced further, or whether the deadline could be reduced further. The latter has already been reduced in this law in relation to the Public Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u274	If I understand correctly, even when deadlines are exceeded, there are still no sanctions for the governing body.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u275	No. That is also the question asked by Mr Van Hattem and Mr Van der Linden: what sanctions are there? There was an amendment in the House of Representatives to include information coming in after the expiry of the deadline, including the Wob request or the Woo request, so that there would also be an incentive for administrative bodies to decide more quickly. Unfortunately, that amendment was rejected. You know the fate of the penalty payment and the question is whether that was the incentive that actually led to a very quick decision. At least let's hope for that advisory board. If that were to be monitored and also to report more specifically on certain administrative bodies, it is to be hoped that we, as representatives of the people, will be able to do something with it. Very few questions have been asked about the advisory board, so I will not say much about that either. It can therefore give unsolicited advice on information management and disclosure, both to the government and to the States General. The composition will be diverse with both journalists, from ICT, the archives and the public administration, we can imagine. But the Minister will probably say more about that. We also hope that the advisory body, with certain information and guidelines, together with the contact officer, can avoid the legalisation that Mr Backer was talking about. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the international context. Mr Van der Linden and Mr Backer asked about the right to information rating. It's not easy to figure out exactly how the system works and to determine exactly how many places you go up when you adopt the Open Government Act. It also depends on what other countries have done since the previous rating came out. There are 61 indicators. It seems to me to be a good idea to refer to the fact that, for example, a country such as Afghanistan is also very high on this issue, and that this is mainly about the law as it is written in the books, and less about actual practice. Also in this international context: the Treaty of Tromsø. It is complicated for us as initiators or on behalf of the House of Representatives to really say something about this, but it could be an important step to strengthen public access and, in particular, its international guarantee. The law we are defending here today contains two points which are contrary to the Treaty of Tromsø. They should then be considered in a subsequent step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u276	I have one more question about that ranking. I understand that it is very difficult to indicate what is happening in relation to other countries, but that ranking is based on a number of scores and score components. Do the defenders at least have an indication of what the change would be in how we score at all? Not in relation to other countries. I'm not asking: are we going to pass Romania? But how many points are there for the Netherlands on its own?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u277	A wet finger and no more than that is that we would rise about ten to fifteen places on the ranking list. As far as scoring these points is concerned, I will find out how many points are to be given. But I would say, let's pass the law and then let's see how high we are next year. Is that a deal, Mr. Van der Linden?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u278	That might be a little fast. Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u279	Imagine we're gonna see what happens, and next year we're gonna be dangling at the bottom, which wouldn't be good. Then maybe we shouldn't pass the law. It's not about places on the ranking list, clearly not, because that's tricky. I am really concerned with the question: how many points would we hopefully score more on those parts if Woo became the legislative framework instead of the Wob?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u280	We'll check the score for you on the jury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u281	What, according to the defenders' signature and ratification might stand in the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u282	Nothing stands in the way of a signature, at least nothing legal. As I said, there are two elements in the Woo that are largely also in the Wob, which are not in line with that. But Sweden, for example, has also made reservations when ratifying, when signing. If you have then ratified it, there is also a kind of duty on you to look at those two again if you would not make reservations there as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u283	But there are no obstacles to defenders. That's good to hear. I'm gonna ask the Minister the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u284	Mr Backer's question was whether there were any gaps after the Woo in relation to the other treaties where we are already partners, such as the Charter. We do not believe that this is the case. Then I'll join the other category, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u285	Your fifth topic. We used to call that cubes; we don't do that anymore. Your fifth topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u286	That's what we get laughed at across the street, so we don't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u287	I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u288	Mr Koole had asked about the documents with the informant. They have been sent by an administrative body, if I have understood correctly, and are therefore placed with the informant. They are excluded until the cabinet formation is completed. That has become Article 5.4. I think I answered the question about the deputy. Then I come to the disadvantage of the Caribbean Netherlands, to which Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Van der Burg have asked. When the Woo started, the starting point was that we would be reluctant to legislate. At the time, the initiators kept to this and perhaps the initiators kept to it a little too well. I understand very well what the questioners have said about material equality. I think the questions that have been put to the Minister were justified. Mr Ganzevoort asked about the difference between public and special universities. In principle, this has remained the same as under the Public Participation Act. At the time, the initiators felt that it was too far to go the whole... The way in which we deal with this is in fact the General Administrative Law Act, as Mr Ganzevoort knows, in other respects as well. We felt that it was too far-reaching to question this principle in the context of a public access law. However, I would like to point out to him that the VSNU has written a letter to this Chamber to adopt the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u289	I told you I understand the legal reasons. But is there also a substantive reason, from the Woo, for this distinction to continue in care and education?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u290	No, Mr. Ganzevoort was right to say "suit up." Then you can take one down or the other upstairs. If you opt for one of those two variants, for example the downgrading of the public access regime of public universities, that is not entirely in the spirit of the law, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u291	It would be in the spirit of the law to bring special education and special institutions under the same regime as public education. But that is a further political discussion that needs to be held another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u292	I think that Mr Ganzevoort sees with me the problems that this entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u293	I have some sort of order question. Can the answer to the question about the ranking we were just talking about be given in the first period, perhaps after the Minister's term? I would like to use it for a possible motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u294	We are going to do our best to have contact with the real thinkers below to ensure that that point count comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u295	They're next door, at least, I hope. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u296	It was a few steps down, Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer had asked whether documents stored in the cloud are also covered by the Woo. That's the case. I think I have also given the answer to the question of where documents lie. Then there were a number of questions about soil restoration and environmental information. Then we are talking about the Aarhus Convention, which is another Scandinavian treaty. Then the exception for business data is not absolute and there may even be emission data that cannot be refused. That was also Mr Koole's question. He asked if he could then assume a broad interpretation. The answer to that is yes. Then I have a number of questions from Mr Van Hattem, on the agenda of the King's Commissioner, I believe. In Article 5.7, De Woo does provide the basis for sharing restricted information with specific journalistic researchers. I don't know the case enough to go into it very deeply, but that space is there. But if it belongs to the Woo and it should be public according to the Woo, then it is also public to everyone. I think that's the best summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u297	It is a very difficult situation, because it has also been noted in the literature published following this statement by the Council of State that it is quite remarkable that this turn is made at once. It is said that a Wob request is basically form-free. Where information is provided, it shall in principle be public. Therefore, if it is agreed in advance with an administrative body that it is not a Wob request or a Woo request, then it should not be public to others. However, I would like to make it clear that if information is provided from an administrative body, there is simply a clear disclosure, that everyone can use that information and that this is not restricted to others because an agreement has been made that it is not a Woo request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u298	I cannot give this to Mr Van Hattem, because this law literally states that restricted information can be shared with certain researchers, even if there is an exception to it. So it is not made public, but then it is given to certain researchers for inspection. This will make it known to some, but not to everyone. But if it is not covered by those exceptions, then Mr Van Hattem has exactly what he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u299	We must therefore conclude that, according to the scope of this law, the very specific agreement must be made that there is only access under clauses. And if there isn't, then it's basically public for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u300	If it is not covered by the exceptions, but should simply be public on the basis of a Wob request, then it is also public for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u301	Finally. Can the defenders then explain how it can be avoided that under the Woo the situation will arise that administrative bodies will only make such documents available for research purposes, and that they will therefore avoid the Woo, that it will be an administrative trick to get out of the Woo?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u302	I understand that concern, but I do not think it is justified, because it is explicitly about information that cannot be disclosed under Articles 5.1 and 5.2. For all other things, it is. Hence the reference to the exception. Mrs Baay had a question about the deadline for interested parties. Articles 3.1 and 3.3 of the Woo codify the case law of the Council of State to create legal protection for interested parties. Normally, a period of about two weeks is set in practice. We assume that this will continue. There's no automatic suspension. That is always the case in administrative law. A provisional application must be made for this. Mrs Baay also asked whether an administrative body could oversee who was interested. That's often a limited group. If those names have been erased, then they are no longer interested in the disclosure. Finally, it asked for Article 3.4. It's about disclosure of major interests. This is really about higher exceptions such as disasters, crises and life-threatening situations. We assume that this is very rarely used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u303	This also means that, in the event of a serious interest, the administrative body is in fact different, that it makes this public and that it is possible for the interested party to have legal protection against that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u304	Yes, legal protection, but in a way. Let me explain. The information has already been made public, because there was an urgent and current threat that could not wait for a delay. Therefore, there was no deadline for the interested party. It will therefore be more a question of legal protection after the event: was this justified and could we possibly bring an action for damages before the civil court? But it is not about legal protection, in the sense of: can I object to this disclosure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u305	No, because that has already happened. Those serious interests are also very exhaustive, if I understand you correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u306	We have no exhaustive list, but the bar is very high. There was another question from Mrs Baay about the International Atomic Energy Agency. Why did we not codify this case, its case law? In our opinion, that was too specific to be included in this law. That's the short answer. Perhaps I can conclude with Mr Backer's question on what the House of Representatives is actually doing about a new administrative culture. Mr Snels has said a few things about this at first. Over the last few years, we have been rapporteurs for the Quality Insight operation. We have acted for civil servants to ask what it is asking to get a learning government. This indeed requires a change in the behaviour of the House of Representatives. The Council of State talks about the information on ministerial responsibility, but also about the mutual trust that is needed for this. This law forces the government to take a first step and be public. But if you want to make that system viable and sustainable, that also requires something from the House of Representatives when it comes to how we deal with it. This means that you do not stand at the interrupt microphone in a press release about an evaluation and say "shame, shame, shame!', while you haven't been able to read a report. That is what we are trying to bring to the attention of our colleagues, both internally and from the Committee on National Expenditure. In addition, there are, of course, the Committees of Inquiry, the Temporary Committee of Implementing Organisations and the Parliamentary Interrogation Committees of Childcare Allowance. A debate on the one has already been held in the Lower House. As you know, this has been followed up very seriously. As far as the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations is concerned, several committees are working within the framework of their knowledge agenda to see what this means. They also look more broadly at what we do with legislation. A second Van der Staaij working group has been set up, and I am once again allowed to be part of it. In it we will see what we can do ourselves to better fulfil our controlling and co-legislative task. Anyone who walks a little longer knows that the House of Representatives does this once in a while. Parliamentary self-reflection is still on the shelf. We are looking with a new Chamber to see if we can also bring about this cultural change. We are going forward bravely in that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u307	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations as advisor to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 1633 Rembrandt drew a camel. We know that because it was made into an etching later. It can still be admired in the city archives of Amsterdam. It's obviously a camel, because he's got two bumps. "Dromedaris" wrote Rembrandt underneath. Now you're probably wondering, what is the moral of this story? I don't know about that either, but maybe the morale is that a master can also be wrong. Something like that. Quite frankly, it just occurred to me. Mr Rombouts is always well prepared. He always has a nice input and I was reminded of Rembrandt's camel. It's actually a very beautiful animal, such a camel. Mr President, as you said, I am indeed here as an advisor to Parliament. However, there have been remarkably many questions asked. I have been given the opportunity to deal with own-initiative legislation here before. I like doing that. Indeed, Mr Snels was unfortunately ahead of me. I had hoped that no one had discovered that today it is the International Right to Know Day, or the International Day for Universal Access to Information. But it can hardly be a coincidence that we are talking about this just on this day. It is a legislative proposal that has indeed come a long way, but today it is Mr Snels and Mr Sneler who answer the questions here in your Chamber. I would therefore also like to express my appreciation for their commitment and perseverance and for the efforts of some of the predecessors to bring this bill forward. I think it indeed comes at a time when about a year or so more has been talked about the need for a transparent and open government. We have known for a long time that democracy can only function properly if we have the checks-and-balances in order. Good information is essential for the proper functioning of our democratic rule of law. The government needs to be controlled. The cabinet is controlled by parliament. But we are all also controlled by what is called the fourth power, journalism. In doing so, it helps to be open and transparent and to ensure that public sector information is also accessible. The Woo is legally anchoring that principle. That's special. So if this bill were to come into force soon, we would all have a legal right of access to public information. This is an important, perhaps symbolic, but an important step. That is one of the reasons why the bill has been welcomed by the now outgoing cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I have classified it as follows: first I answer a number of questions of a more general nature. Then I'll go into active disclosure. My third point concerns passive disclosure. The fourth part is information management, and in the last and fifth parts I deal with implementation and a number of other questions. There were questions from Mr Backer, Mr Talsma and Mr Van der Burg, among others, about the humanization, financing and whether they are actually in order. I understand that question very well. You have talked very extensively about the implementation of the Woo. I believe that Mr Backer asked for reassurance in the field of human resources and funding. Let me say first of all, as was just said by Mr Snels, that there has been a very detailed review of the implementation of the Woo. I dare say that there are few legislative proposals that take so much time to review the implementation, also a little because of the history that has just been outlined. The original bill has been amended, because it turned out that some parts were very difficult to implement. That brought us to the novelle. It's been tested again. Departments, implementation organisations, local authorities: all have carried out an implementation test. We have assessed the costs of implementation and implementation of the bill. The legislative proposal was subsequently amended to further refine its feasibility, particularly as regards active disclosure. Thus, there has actually been an alternative to the active disclosure of large numbers of more or less equal documents, complaints and decisions. They can now be published in an overview. This whole process has therefore led to its becoming manageable. For the costs involved in the legislative proposal too, we simply need to be very transparent about it. This compensates organisations, both from the Empire and from a decentralised point of view, for the costs they incur for this. Moreover, in the context of what we agreed after the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Child Welfare Surgery, we have also made available additional resources to get this information system in order. I would also like to talk about this in more detail. The organisations therefore have a budget to work with. The umbrella organisations of the co-governments have also received resources to ensure that this support is in order in the implementation and implementation of the Woo. For example, the VNG has hunting teams to help the municipalities. Within the Empire we also have our own program to get the information system in order. They're all just people who need to be paid. So I think that we actually have a good idea of the costs and the work involved in all aspects and we have indeed set aside the resources for this. Active disclosure requires generic infrastructure. That is PLOOI, the platform for disclosure of public sector information to which you now have to be attached, as stated in the second letter of amendment. There is. Of course, there are always things in practice that you have to take into account. We have also said, as a result of the childcare allowance affair, that we want to work much more and more quickly on this transparency. That has put pressure on that project again. You have to make sure you can adjust, too, but you're there. We'll be there ourselves. Mr. Chairman. I would like to speak a little more in detail about PLOOI, also because we are going to agree on the pace and timing of the negotiations in the near future. As I said, it must be a controlled, manageable and careful process, and we must also take into account the wishes of the associated organisations. It is therefore a controlled growth towards full implementation. Mr Rombouts asked for an indication of the specific financial implications for the various authorities. There is an overview of the documents in which we have estimated the costs. You have seen this: 60 million occasionally for the Empire and 48 million structurally. For the co-governments, it has estimated 140 million on an occasional basis and 51 million on a structural basis. The precise distribution varies from one organisation to another. You can see that in the Empire. There is a huge difference between a ministry like General Affairs and a ministry like JenV, because it depends very much on its size and complexity. In fact, we also see that changes and additions are needed in a personal sense, such as the contact officer, which has just been mentioned, and also in order to guide active disclosure, train staff and connect with PLOOI. That's what I just said. That's all part of that. You also have a very detailed image or piece, showing what that impact is. It is a large document of 340 pages. I can imagine that not everyone could have read that, but that was sent to Parliament last summer, on 29 June 2020. Then Mr Rombouts asked whether we were doing things too complicated. I think Mr Talsma hinted a little bit about that too. It's all complicated. Mr Rombouts suggested that this Wob should be properly evaluated in order to perhaps do something about it. I really don't think that would be enough. I think the Woo is triggering fundamental changes. There are many more governing bodies under the Woo than under the Wob. Designated information should be actively made public. Look, some elements can be found under the Wob and under the Woo, but you should always be able to make a trade-off. That doesn't change in itself. But if you choose a fundamental starting point, such as the right to get information, then I think it would be appropriate not to tinker with what you have, but to take the step towards something new and different. It could be complicated. Mrs Baay mentioned some examples of this. That's right. You can also see it in the wording of the law. If you have more openness, you have to look very carefully at the exceptions, for example. I don't think you can ever say, "If this is there, we're done." I say this not only because we will have to go through an implementation period, but also because we have to continue to learn about how we want to deal with openness. Mr Rombouts suggested that we look at this more internationally. Actually, I think so, too. We did that, as you saw in the pieces. We know a lot about some countries. Of course we see every time that it is something different than in the Netherlands. It would be interesting to have an international comparative research. I am prepared to take that step, so to set it in motion and to ask some sensible people, scientists, if they are able to do so. I think that's useful, so I'd like to go into that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u309	I would like to ask the Minister whether the right to information exists under the Wob, but only the right to information after a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u310	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u311	For the citizen, therefore, there is no difference in law between the Woo and the Wob.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u312	Well, yeah... No, I don't agree with that. I think the Woo is really taking a fundamental step forward. In my introduction, I also said that it is almost symbolic. I think it's also principled. If the Woo is going to work properly and if we have the information system in order, then we will make it much easier for people and we will have the starting point that it is in principle public. You don't have to ask 'cause you can just find it. You can just get access to it. If you take the right to information as a starting point, I think you are taking a fundamental step. Of course, the Wob also offers the possibility of that access. But I think it's a fundamental difference whether you keep working from the premise of the Wob, or that you put another broader legal foundation under it, which makes the right to information very clear to everyone. I also called it symbolic. Maybe some of it's just symbolic, but it's important symbolism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u313	Could you then say that the right to information is now fed by the obligation to provide information?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u314	Yeah, I like that translation of it. Because it starts with the government, which must have the starting point: "We want to be transparent. We want to make it easier for people to take the information that is basically public." Mr Rombouts also said that, of course, it is not just about information management and that it is not just about the systems and techniques behind it, but also about culture. That's true. I totally agree with him. That is why I also started by saying that it is about us as a government radiating that our intention is transparency. Our intention is to be open. For that it is necessary, I think, there the Woo helps us of course also to take really big steps in getting the information system in order and to check that too, to keep the finger on the wrist. The Advisory Committee on Publicity is going to help with this. Mr Sneller has just said a number of things about it. That is what the government, and the Chambers, of course, are going to advise on this and unsolicited: are we doing okay? This can also make a substantial contribution to that culture, to that governance culture that we want to share. So it actually gives a bit of a stick behind the door, via the Woo, to really take those steps. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions that mainly concern active disclosure. This active disclosure obligation is, of course, an important addition. We really only had the legal duty, as Mr Schalk just said, to provide information on request. With active disclosure, we are actually making a mandatory move towards transparency. It'll take time. The Woo also offers that time, by a phased entry into force. We can facilitate that by category. This also contributes very much to the implementation of the law. As I said in my introduction, there was initially a legislative proposal which was very difficult to implement and very expensive, but it is now feasible because of the changes made by the initiators. This has also been confirmed by local authorities. By the way, we do not want to limit this active disclosure to what is really necessary on the basis of the Woo, because as a cabinet in response to the POK report, we have indicated that we want to give generous insight into considerations underlying policy-making. We have already started to publish internal decision-making papers on 1 July. In principle, we make it public to the members of both Chambers, but with that it is public, so for everyone. The House of Representatives also introduced an amendment, the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Molen on personal policy ideas. That helps, too. The starting point of that amendment is that substantive considerations underlying formal decision-making should be transparent. This applies to the governing bodies mentioned in the Woo, which are politically accountable to democratically elected bodies on policy and legislation. Those personal policy concepts will therefore henceforth be provided in anonymised form, which is an important point. Also with that we have already started actively in the run-up to the Woo. Then some specific questions about active disclosure. Mr Backer informed about the internal deliberations between officials in the run-up to decision-making. It is true: this is not being made public. That won't be necessary. That is the stage that, I believe, Mr Snels just mentioned policy intimacy. That kind of reminded me of the word "skin hunger." I don't know why. At this stage, it is also very clear in the explanatory memorandum that civil servants should be able to give real francs and freely their views on policy issues and policy choices, for example if they share drafts of policy papers with each other. They will not be made public at that time either. That is not necessary and that would not be conducive either, because it is not ripe, not finished. When it is done, it is important that you can then look back at what policy alternatives have been proposed and what options and considerations have been shared and how that final decision was reached. Of course, that's relevant. So my brief answer to Mr Backer's question is yes. Transparency is indeed also a cultural change. This cultural change has been slow but has been accelerated by the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Things had already started. We had, for example, put all that famous ukaze-kok in a somewhat disrespectful way. We were already looking for ways to deal more relaxedly with each other, also with information requests over and over again, also from the Chamber. Someone cited the interview with three top officials. I think that also gives a good insight into how it has been used for a long time by officials and that they also realize that it takes time. I have mentioned the decision notes since 1 July. I would also like to stress that the work of civil servants is only good and professional if they are safe in their duties. That is why we need to be relaxed, but we also need to be careful about it, but in our country we have also agreed something very good for each other, and that is what is called ministerial responsibility. It is important to respect that with each other. The official cannot defend himself, the minister should do so. Parliament should therefore also appeal to the Minister and never to the official, because that is not possible. For example, we are now doing more technical briefings. I don't know if that's happening in this Chamber anymore, but I thought it is; at least in the House of Representatives I see it happening more. That is incredibly good and very helpful. I think it is also useful for Members of Parliament because they can take on a lot of complex information in an easier way, but it must of course be limited to questioning officials on the facts, the technique, the content and the complexity. As soon as it gets political, it's supposed to go back to the ruler. This means that officials must be able to say: sorry, but I cannot answer this question, which will be answered at another table at another time. If we do that, I think that this is a good way of working, also for the officials of the Hague and, by the way, the civil service elsewhere. Mr Koole also asked about the active provision of notes to the Chamber under Rule 68. I told you, we'll do those decision notes. 100 have been published so far. In any case, the Registrars of both Chambers are satisfied with the way in which they are delivered, but I also hear that MPs are now using them. Then I come to the PLOOI system. There is and is in the demo version live. That platform is running. It's been tested. It's been tested. The first collections are unlocked, but the biggest challenge at this PLOOI is joining all these government organizations. For example, for the Empire there are already 155 Zbo's next to the departments. The municipalities are concerned with more than 350 organisations. So you can't do that connection at once. You have to do that in stages. You must also give the organisations time to experience this and organise themselves for delivery and connection. For the Empire, we aim to be connected to the first categories of information by 2023, including in the context of the decision notes that we make public under Article 68. We're making a plan. We do this together with the domes: the VNG, the IPO and the Union of Water Boards. And while we're just recording that very plannedly, that platform is also being developed, because it just needs to be a user-friendly platform where people can search for information, and more importantly: they can also find and understand it. With this we try to make it easier for everyone to navigate through an abundance of information. Now Mr Van der Burg pointed out to us, and others also said that the domes said: 1 May 2022 is very ambitious. However, they do not have to connect as of 1 May 2022. This phased entry into force, a possibility that is simply set out in the law in Articles 3.3 and 3.3a, means that the administrative bodies do not have to connect with active disclosure. It means that we can take the time to grow in a concerted and feasible way towards phased connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u315	Directly following this. The municipalities don't have to have all of that ready right away, the Empire in 2023, all according to a certain plan. Until then, doesn't Woo apply to these public bodies, but does the Wob still apply? What's the deal with that, exactly? Second. You said that the problem of the PLOOI lies mainly in the connection conditions and so on, and now the domes say that they also have concerns as to whether this platform is sufficiently developed at the planned date of entry, which they seem to know. Not only is the connection not properly regulated, but the development of the PLOOI may not be sufficiently developed, in the eyes of these domes. Can the Minister give us a ruling on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u316	On that first point: when the Woo comes into effect, the Woo is there. Then there's no more Wob, but then there's a Woo. What is at issue here is the active disclosure section. There the law offers the possibility of the phased entry into force. I look at those who know the law even better than I do, and they confirm that. Then it's about the system itself. The bottleneck is really in carefully connecting all the organs that need to be connected to them. It's not an incredibly complicated system. It's actually a pretty easy system, which just has to make sure you can put your documents in it. The complexity, let me tell you, is that the parties who have to join must first have the place in order and then be able to join. Again, we already know it and we've already tried it. It's got test gardens on it. So we know it's working, but we need careful planning so that everyone can be connected when they're ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u317	I thank the Minister for this clarification. The date is only about active disclosure. The law goes straight into the moment it goes into effect. This also means that organisations which are not currently covered by the Wob but will soon be subject to this law, such as the High Colleges of State, will have to respond to requests from the population from the moment the law enters into force. It is not about active disclosure, but about passive information. They have to respond to this right away and act fully according to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u318	I can say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u319	Just from the legislative technique or the mechanism. It actually says very often that part of the law still comes into force at some point in time. Now I understand from the discussion that there is no automatism in it. I'm talking about active disclosure. But what's the trigger point? I read in the paper that Mr Van Weyenberg spoke once in four years' time. But I understand it's not time-bound. It is much more functionally bound: is one ready? How does that work? Who's reporting? Is that the advisory committee? Is it the minister who reports to the House of Representatives and says: now we are ready? I just want to get a little more sense of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u320	The way I see it, we make a plan together with the umbrella organisations. We're already in agreement with that. That platform is being developed at the same time. We'll have a plan and then we'll be able to figure out when what comes into effect, as it says in the law. I think it is most logical for the Minister to report to the Chamber on this, so that the Chamber has an insight into the plan and whether it is properly implemented. I believe that every time a phase enters into force, there is a KB. Let me check that in law. Seems like the way to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u321	I explicitly asked the Minister whether it is true that there is no connection strategy yet and that there is also some uncertainty as to what technical requirements there are for this connection. That is the concern expressed by the organisations. I hear her say in the answer that this is done over and over again for every stage. I think that's a little vague. I ask her if there is a connection strategy and, if it is not, when it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u322	Thanks for the question. I understood Mr Van der Burg's question and others so that the domes say: we are worried, because we do not think we are ready on 1 May 2022. On that point, I would like to make it very clear: there is no need to do so. Fortunately for that we have the law, which stipulates that this can be phased out for active disclosure. So that's what we're gonna do staged. We do not, of course, do so from the discretion of a ministry in The Hague, but we do so in consultation with the umbrella organisations. The consultations with these umbrella organisations are going well. This should lead to a connection plan. That connection plan isn't here yet. Mrs Gerkens is absolutely right about that. I think it is important that this connection plan be finalised with the agreement of VNG, IPO and UVW. We're pretty far ahead, so I don't think it's gonna take a lot of time. Hopefully we can finish this in the course of this autumn. Then there's the plan. Well, then everyone actually knows what he's up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u323	I conclude, therefore, that this year, this autumn, there is still a connection strategy, which also clearly defines the technical requirements and also specifies the costs for which it is responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u324	Of course, I have already said a few things about the costs. We've got a visual on him. We're working on the plan. That will indeed be there this year. So I can actually confirm what Mrs Gerkens is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u325	I hear the Minister say that the umbrella organisations VNG and IPO are working on a plan, an implementation strategy, etc. on the implementation of this law. The Ministry therefore cooperates with these umbrella organisations. If, as a simple citizen, I now submit a Wob request, or later a Woo request, to get the information from these umbrella organisations about the rigging of this plan and about that implementation strategy et cetera, which is being worked on under this law, can I get that information under the figure of the existing Wob, or under the new Woo, or will it be said that it is private law institutions and I do not have access to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u326	Firstly, this is about passive disclosure. I'll get to that in a minute. Secondly, Mr Van Hattem is not just a citizen, but a Member of Parliament. That has other ways of getting his information. He's already asked another question about this. I'll talk about that in a minute, if it's okay with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u327	Just a little comment. Are there any hard deadlines in that attack plan, which will be completed this autumn, so that everyone knows where they stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u328	I think it's very important that everyone knows what they're up to. I also think it is important for the parties to be able to grow to that final situation in a feasible way. Mr Koole sounds very threatening with hard deadlines and so on. On the contrary, I would like a plan that we all think is feasible and in which everyone can grow carefully towards the final situation in which everyone is connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u329	Then I'll put it a little less harshly. I almost wanted to say "soft deadlines." Could there then be indicative dates on which this should be ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u330	Yes. I can just say yes to that. Mr. Chairman. A few more points on active disclosure. It's a bit of a sidetrack, but we're talking about those domes. Mr Van der Linden asked what VNG, IPO and UvW themselves think that they do not fall within the scope of the Woo. I think that's a matter for the domes themselves. Of course, it's about the municipalities, the provinces, the waterboards. The point is that the people at the municipality and the province can access the documents in order to be able to control that administration properly. The umbrella organizations don't have to. It's okay, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u331	My question was even more specific. Is the Minister prepared to make a non-binding friendly appeal to the boards and members of these domes? I just mean a public letter to challenge them to act constructively in the spirit of this law that we are all discussing here today. She can write: I realize that you are not legally covered, but I challenge you to voluntarily commit to the Woo or the Wob and can support you in doing so; are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u332	I work really well with the domes. I would also like to continue to work well with them because of the plan we are now making together for the connection. This is urgently needed in order to help the governments associated with their domes in this whole process. I just said I shouldn't, but it's okay. I said that a little bit with an undertone from which you can deduce that I would like it very much if they decided to do so themselves. At the same time, I'm not gonna ask them. It's not in the law. You don't have to. But there's something logical in it that if the person representing you does, you might at some point think: so can we.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u333	In my view, this is not just about representation, but also about implementation tasks. I have already mentioned the example of BET12, which falls within the scope of the IPO for the implementation tasks of the government. The Woo states in Article 4.1 (1) that the application may be submitted to an administrative body, but also to an institution, service or company operating under the responsibility of an administrative body. In the latter case, the responsible administrative authority shall decide upon the request. For the legal history and purpose of the legislator, can we establish here that an umbrella organisation falls within the scope of an institution under the responsibility of an administrative body, or something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u334	No, I don't think so. If that were the case, it should have been explicitly stated in the law. That's not true. These are associations. They're not covered. Representatives of an organisation may, in their capacity as a deputy, alderman or whatever, be connected to an administrative body. That detour may be there, but as Mr Van Hattem explains it here, it cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u335	Then I continue to be surprised that these umbrella organisations take on executive tasks of the government, for example an organisation like BET12. If someone submits a Wob request or later a Woo request on documents covered by the implementation organisation of, for example, the provincial government stationed on behalf of that government at BEL12, it can therefore be refused because the IPO is a private-law institution. Or can the Minister indicate that this should be covered by the Woo precisely in the context of implementing tasks of this kind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u336	I can't say it any clearer than I just said. The domes as such are simply not included. Governments that are connected to those domes do. I think it's that simple. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the passive disclosure. I think it is important to note that at the moment we have come up against the limits of what can still be done in the field of feasibility in the field of passive disclosure. The fact is that the departments are becoming less and less successful in meeting the Wob requests submitted within the deadlines. This has partly to do with the increasing number of Wob requests and partly with the increasing complexity of the Wob requests being made. But to be honest, it has to do with the ever-growing amount of information produced within government organisations. It must therefore also be searched every time, tested against the Wob and submitted to third parties for views. Sometimes it's painted because of privacy-sensitive information. That's taken a huge flight. In 1991, at the beginning of the current Wob, it might have been about an files file holder. Now it's about millions of documents. Not all of them are easily accessible. They are not properly unlocked, properly indexed and not properly organized in document management systems. Today, for example, it was also about the Wob requests to the ministry of VWS. For the last year's Wob requests, of which there are of course a lot of corona-related, more than 5 million documents need to be viewed and processed. VWS has attracted over 100 Wob lawyers to cope with that job. Journalists are waiting months for the information. I think I speak for many when I say that that really makes me sad. Of course, that is not the image of openness that was meant for the Wob at the time, but it is not what we want with each other either. We're gonna have to turn that tide. The cabinet promised that, too. I think that the Wob, also in terms of passive disclosure, can really help. Mr Backer mentioned that too. He talked about the Woo's duty of care. The contact officer, who has just been mentioned in the debate with Sneller and Snels, must work with requests for information within each organisation. We are now preparing a so-called model profile of that contact officer. It actually has two functions: that person should be very well aware of the information that an organisation is managing. What information is there in the organisation? It will have an active information function. That function is there to help the applicants in exactly what they are looking for. How can you get that information request sharp? How can you make contact with the people who actually have access to that information and who can provide that information? We see in the execution of the Wob that that does not always go well. Wob applicants remain in doubt about the status of their request for too long. The contact is often very legal in nature. It's very juridified and that's actually not good either. We know you often come a long way when you're just having a good conversation with a petitioner. You'll be able to define it quite often. This leads to a better and faster handling. Mr Schalk and Mr Backer informed about the implementing decision for that public prosecutor. I thought Mr Backer said, like the GDPR. Such an official is, of course, a good idea, because it is important that, if this culture change, that openness, that transparency becomes the starting point, also improves awareness within government organisations. But I wonder if it is necessary to do more, so on top of that contact person that is already covered in the bill. I've just described what kind of duties the contact has. Part of it is the public servant. The legislative proposal has actually already implemented this; at least it has already laid the foundations for it. I think the fact that this contact person is there and that he is playing this service role, simply through human-to-human contact, is a great added value of the proposal. This helps in the complexity that Schalk and others have been asking attention to. Questions were also asked about the personal policy concept, the amendment to that effect and the waterboards. There was even doubt as to whether I meant what I had written down in my reply. Let me therefore say to Mr Koole and others who made comments about this that waterboards are of course doing an incredibly important job. The work that is taking place there is also being held accountable. That's important, too. It has nothing to do with the work and it has nothing to do with the way in which the water boards are elected and accountable. If that is the aftertaste of my written reply, then I would like to correct that misunderstanding. The water boards also fall under the Woo, no misunderstanding about that. But they are not covered by the specific element that has been introduced through the amendment. I think it's really a slight difference in accent in the big picture. I don't tend to fix that right now by changing the law. At some point the law is being evaluated and this is likely to lead to improvements and adjustments. That might be a good time to correct this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u337	I would like to thank the Minister for speaking on the important subject of the waterboards. I understand that the Minister says he is not inclined to fix this right after the law has been passed. But can the Minister promise that, if the law is amended for other reasons, this element will also be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u338	Let's make a deal. I suggested doing all that in the evaluation, but there might already be an earlier moment. I would like to say what Mr Koole is suggesting, namely that we do so as soon as there is an opportunity to do so. I think that's wise. Just a few more specific points. Mr Van Hattem outlined that at a decentralised level, Wob requests were rejected concerning soil restoration, but I cannot, of course, answer them, because I am not familiar with the substantive considerations that have been made in this case with that particular administrative body. In general, but that applies both under the Wob and under the Woo, certain environmental information simply needs to be made public, for example when it comes to emissions. But I don't know the case and I can't respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u339	I would not ask the Minister to go into the case exactly. It's the principle that matters to me. In this case, it was not a Wob request, but an active obligation to inform the people's representatives. If Provincial States or a city council is presented with a certain file and has to assess certain council proposals or a State proposal, but there are no important data, a representative of the people must go to the college concerned and complain about getting that data. Then it gets a lot of pieces only painted black or not at all. I would have liked a reflection from the Minister on this situation, how to deal with it under the Woo. Whether it really is the case that, if some background files are available, people's representatives can easily get them and that they do not immediately get the brakes from lectures, from: wait a minute, this might still be business sensitive information. Can the Minister indicate how people's representatives can be better placed in the exercise of their duties?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u340	Again, I do not know whether Mr Van Hattem has a specific case in mind here in what he is now describing. In my opinion, it shouldn't be like this by now. It is already the case that as representatives of the people, it does not matter whether or not senators are MPs or statesmen or councilmen are asking for information, the alderman, deputy or the minister simply has to do his best to provide that information. As far as I'm concerned, we don't need the Woo for that. There may be reasons why certain information cannot be provided. Then that must be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u341	Shortly, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u342	But that's where the crux is. Certain information is often not provided. It would be business sensitive information, so it would not be provided. Or the information requested would still be at a stage of negotiation, which would mean that whole files would not be made available immediately, while often only a limited part of that information is involved. Can the Minister indicate how people's representatives under the Woo can be more effectively represented, so that they do not always have to fight against these exceptions and really be provided with information?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u343	Mr Van Hattem has just asked the initiators, but again, we don't even need the Woo for that. I really believe that the people's representatives are entitled to information, and if that information cannot be provided in public, it will be given confidentially. If it cannot be fully provided for privacy reasons, then it will be removed, but that must be motivated every time. So again, Wob or Woo doesn't matter at all. The people's representatives simply need to be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u344	I suggest we let the Minister move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u345	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to information management. As far as anyone thought, if the Woo is there, it's all good at once. Well, of course it's not. Putting that information system in order will take time. That housekeeping is just not good right now. It is not well documented, it is not accessible, it is not properly indexed, it is not well searchable. That really is a big problem that needs to be solved. I believe that the initiators in the House of Representatives have also said that it is expected that it will take about eight years to put this information system in order. As a government for active disclosure, we have the ambition to publish all mandatory Woo categories in a central location within five years. So that is still work in progress for the time being. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether we might already foresee that the evaluation could further increase the transparency of administration. That in itself is a good goal. I can imagine that if you do that evaluation, of course, that's going to happen anyway, you're gonna ask that basic question. Has it achieved what you want to achieve? What else would you like and what else would you like or not? But that's it. I think we should look at how you deal with this within the framework of the Woo. How do we ensure that we make maximum use of the space the Woo offers? How do we ensure that this phased entry into force actually works? So it's hard to look ahead to those five years. We have a lot of work to do before we can be satisfied at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u346	I get that. The regular evaluation questions are obvious, of course. However, we often say in debates: we must now give a number of guidelines for the evaluation in a few years' time. That only helps, I think. Hence my question. If we see this as a learning path, a growth model in which we are working together, would you not say at the front door: in five years' time let's see where we stand and what we have achieved and what we have not achieved, but also what follow-up steps could be taken or still need to be taken? My question would be: could we include this in the evaluation as one of the points of attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u347	It is, of course, a growth model within itself. That is the first part of an answer to Mr Ganzevoort's suggestion. I think it is wise that during the ride you should indeed note what you encounter as a focus for an evaluation. I think that we are doing this regularly in other legislation too. So if I may take Mr Ganzevoort's suggestion in this way, I agree with him. While he's at the interrupting microphone, I might also like to make the following observation. He spoke himself about the register of information, but of course there will not be an information register. There's gonna be a system, PLOOI, we just talked about. That is also a growth model, but it is something different from the register that was in the original bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u348	Let me take the first point as a promise that we will carry out this evaluation in the future. Then there is the second point. I referred to the experiments that are being carried out and which, in my opinion, will be included in the evaluation in five years' time with the question of what results will be obtained. My question was this: if this leads to positive things very quickly, let us take that into account in the growth model.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u349	Again, that fits, I think, with the learning way in which we should deal with this law and, above all, with the implementation of that law. Mr Backer put it nicely. He also cited the inadequate status of information management. He actually said: of course that is all very annoying, but it can hardly be a reason not to deliver as a government? That's what you're supposed to do, isn't it? It's both true. It is frustrating that this information system is so bad in order that we are not able to meet what we would like. That means we can't just stand by and watch. That means that we simply have to get to work as we run into those borders, as I just outlined in my brief introduction. There is therefore no reason not to make this public within the time limits laid down. At the same time, you can't break iron with anyone else. There is a backlog that has been built up in years and years. We just have to be realistic about that. You didn't solve that very quickly either. At least last year, after the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, we said: it really has to be different; we are going to use the Woo for this and we are going to make money available for it. We're gonna use whatever tools are needed. If this Woo gets there after the vote in this house, it will help us in a path that we have already started and that we will expand and expand. As this information system gets better, so will it. Mr Backer specifically asked whether the timing of active disclosure obligations could be specified. He called it a "sunrise clause." I think that is justified from the point of view of legal certainty. We have said, through this phased entry into force, which I have just mentioned, that not everything needs to be done at once. I told you, we're making a plan for that. The law also lays down that the categories of information by Royal Decree are to be determined by when actively disclosed. That's the legal side. You always want to be able to take a look ahead. It is a political but also organisational question how to ensure that the implementation of the Woo is phased out, but also planned. I told you, PLOOI, active disclosure, January 1st, 2023. But the phasing out of these organisations needs to be worked out much more precisely and finer. You can also imagine that very well, because these organisations are all different; a small municipality is really very different from, for example, a very large implementation organisation. Both need to see when what is feasible. Mr. Chairman. Then I shall proceed to the final part of the reply. This is about implementation and there are a number of other questions. I would like to start with the questions that have been asked about the Treaty of Tromsø. Mr Ganzevoort started addressing this point, but others followed it. In this house, the Treaty of Tromsø of the Council of Europe is apparently a well-known treaty. I am glad that people know that well here and it is also beautiful statements. First of all, I understand very well that questions have been asked about this. The core consideration of the Tromsø Convention is that all official documents are in principle public and can only be withheld while respecting the protection of other rights and legitimate interests. Grosso modo is that core consideration also the core message behind the Woo. Nevertheless, before it could actually be ratified, further consideration should be given to how Dutch public access legislation, according to de Woo, relates to the Convention. For example, look at something like the absolute ground for refusal of company data. He doesn't seem to relate well to the treaty. The cabinet does not believe that it is appropriate to do so at this stage, I believe we are now three times the outgoing government. We have therefore stated in the written reply that it is up to the next cabinet to examine this and conclude whether it is desirable to sign the Convention. I can well imagine that, but that is the position taken by the cabinet. Mr Koole and Mr Ganzevoort asked whether, on the basis of what we know, the validity of the Woo would be compromised if we signed and ratified Tromsø. This question is more general about the relationship between international law and national law. In the case of treaties signed by the Netherlands, you commit yourself to the obligations and, by the way, to the rights that citizens are granted. This does not jeopardise the validity of national law in the sense that it would no longer apply. A national law applies. The Treaty therefore applies. If there are contradictions, I am not saying that about this treaty, but in a general sense the Constitution gives us rules on how to deal with it. But again, the question of whether the Netherlands could or should accede to this particular treaty is a question that the next cabinet must answer. In reply to Mr Koole's question, I cannot rule out contradictions. I can't give him that guarantee. That really requires further study. I think it's important to do that very well. However, I can conclude positively by stressing that the general starting point of the Tromsø Convention, namely that all official documents are public, is also the starting point of the Woo. The spirit of the law and the spirit of the treaty seem to be very similar, but I would not go beyond that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u350	The Minister cannot rule out any contradictions at the moment. She says it's up to another cabinet to look at it, but that also requires research. At an earlier stage, the Minister referred to other international competitions. Does she have two separate investigations in mind? A outgoing cabinet can start an investigation in advance, so that the next cabinet can use the results to make its own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u351	In my opinion, it's two different things. The first is a factual and scientific international comparative study. This research has a specific objective that is also politically and administratively relevant, namely: could we ratify the Convention, yes or no? Since that question is, of course, hidden behind the investigation, we, as a cabinet, have decided that it is up to a subsequent cabinet to initiate it and then decide whether or not it would like to ratify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u352	Can the Minister not now give any indication of the current problems which prevent the Tromsø Convention from being signed? I asked for this in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u353	I gave an example: business-sensitive information. In the scientific literature, points of interest are mentioned. We have been informed from the official organisations that this really requires further study. The official findings are ready, so a next cabinet can quickly use them. But there are a few hooks and eyes that make us think that it is wise to do further research before we make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u354	Mr. Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u355	Finally, I would like to ask whether this present outgoing cabinet cannot start this investigation in advance, so that the next cabinet can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u356	Let's do it like this. If you can do some preparatory work, of course you shouldn't let that happen. What is already known is that we can get the officials to put together so that we have already done the preparatory work that is needed should the new cabinet say: we would like to know whether or not we can ratify the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u357	I'd like to go one step further. We know there are still discrepancies. A number of points of the law have already been mentioned today which, according to the defenders, would have to be amended if we were to sign the Tromsø Convention. But what are the obstacles to signing and ratifying the Tromsø Treaty at all? The question I would like to ask the Minister is whether she is prepared to say that she wants to explore what obstacles there are to sign or ratify the Convention and whether she wants to inform us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u358	Mr Ganzevoort says he wants to go further than Mr Koole, but I am actually listening to the same thing. I am happy to say that we are putting into view what we can put in front of us, so that a next cabinet does not have to start from scratch. Everything there is. In my view, that is a long way from what Mr Ganzevoort is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u359	A long way, but I think Mr Koole and I were quite in line and the Minister was just a bit more reluctant when she said: what is already known to the public. The question was: would you be willing to explore what obstacles it would stand in the way of? That's a little more than: what do we know? That is: make an inventory so that we can indeed have the conversation with the next government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u360	In fact, Mr Ganzevoort says: make sure that you already have the relevant questions in your head. That is what is known, what could possibly stand in the way. Or not, of course we have to wait for the answer. I am prepared to make a commitment that we will map that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u361	Thank you. I appreciate that very much. Maybe it's also good if we get there... that's not a lot of work I think. Is a six-month deadline realistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u362	Should I reply to that in the second term? I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u363	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u364	Questions have also been asked about the Caribbean Netherlands, also by Mr Ganzevoort I thought. Firstly, Article 2.2 sets out the scope of the Woo. It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that article that the Woo does not apply to the administrative bodies of the three public bodies of the Caribbean Netherlands and the State Representative. These bodies are governed by the BES Public Administration Act. In response to the question of whether the citizens of the Caribbean Netherlands have an interest in a transparent government, that was one of the questions I would say: yes, that seems obvious to me. In answer to the question whether this would lead to the cabinet perhaps wanting to adapt the Wob BES to the Woo, I would say that in the area of public access it would. But we also have to deal with the whole complexity of the service as we organise it in the Caribbean Netherlands. That is actually a much broader agenda. The aim is to establish an implementation agenda with public sector bodies. There would also be official and administrative consultations with the drivers in the Caribbean Netherlands. I do not want to say that we are going to apply the Woo there as well. You can't do that, and it's not in the law. But I do think it is right to include active disclosure in the context of those conversations and put them on the agenda. Mr Backer also asked about the relationship between the Woo and the penalty payment scheme under the General Administrative Law. He also asked about the Law on Modernisation of Electronic Administrative Traffic. As for the first thing: in 2016 the automatic penalty payment scheme was removed from the Wob in case of non-time decision, because there was a lot of abuse. I had that evaluated in 2020, and that evaluation showed that abuse has stopped. The investigation also showed that the lead times have increased, not only because of the disappearance of the automatic penalty payment scheme but mainly because of the size and complexity of the Wob requests. The Woo doesn't change anything about the penalty payment scheme compared to the Wob, but an administrative body is just legally bound to those decision-making mines and the judge can supervise them. So the judge can still impose a penalty. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. Then as far as that other law is concerned, the Law on Modernisation of Electronic Administrative Traffic. That bill has yet to be dealt with in the Lower House. This includes a duty of care, a duty of care to support citizens, even less or not digitally skilled citizens, in their contact with the government in answering their questions. That's a different duty than the Woo who knows. So these are actually two care obligations that exist side by side. I hope that I have answered Mr Backer's questions. In line with this, he also said that digitisation can help greatly, but can also become an unstoppable hurdle for citizens. That's right. That's what we're seeing today. We are working in many ways on chasing teams, informing city leaders and council members about how, for example, they can improve the accessibility of websites, about the importance of understandable language, about how to use mobile apps. There is a Direct Clear Brigade, which makes government organisations aware of the need to communicate intelligibly in their contact with citizens; this happens in a variety of ways. It is also something that has the attention of the large implementation organizations, UWV, SVB, the Tax Administration and so on. These are, of course, the organisations directly concerned with citizens and directly impacting citizens. I think today we all think that people often just need a personal contact. The implementation organisations are also very aware of this. We need to create that possibility where it is insufficient. Finally, with a duty of care, I aim to provide appropriate support, in the proposal for modernisation of the General Administrative Law Act, for a more responsive government. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to end with what Mr Sneller also ended up with, namely the new administrative culture. Mrs Gerkens drew attention to this, along with many other speakers. I think that perhaps the most important condition for the relationship of trust between government and citizens is that governments are accessible. It is important that they are accessible and answer for choices made. I think the Woo is an important bill, because it is based on an open government and public sector information that is actively shared and gives citizens the right to access information. That openness, that transparency and that attitude of trust, that of "we trust you," can only be achieved together. That's something the conversation should be about. This requires a basic attitude of the government on transparency and accessibility. De Woo actually has a very long history in that respect. The moment when the Woo is also treated in this Chamber means that the Woo is not in itself, but that it can be part of that change towards openness in the attitude of the government. The Woo can help greatly with the big job we have to put that information system in order. We must also realise that it does help, but that it did not happen with a stroke of pens or with a signature. It'll be tough and it'll take a lot of time and a lot of effort from all of us, but it's worth it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u365	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Van Hattem, one more brief interruption, and I'd like to refer you to your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u366	I have a few unanswered questions which I have asked directly to the Minister and which I would still like to deal with in this period. It concerns my question about the commitment to the management tables made earlier by this minister and my question about the climate tables. If we are talking about an open and transparent attitude on the part of the government, then I think it is important that the information on the climate tables that I have been asking for for two and a half years should also be available to Parliament and to everyone. I would therefore like to have a response from the Minister, also in the light of the law now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u367	I know that Mr Van Hattem has previously drawn attention to the climate tables, which was his last question, but that is also with my colleague, now Secretary of State, Yeşilgöz of EZK. Of course that doesn't have anything to do with the Woo, because that is just part of the current relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u368	Then that's not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u369	The other question was about the information from the administrative consultation and the management tables. What information from consultation tables can be made public should really be assessed on a case-by-case basis. I can't just say that in this case that changes because of the Woo. No, there are two separate regimes. That is the regime of Article 68 of the Constitution, which deals with information to the Chambers. The Woo is not, of course, about providing information to the Chambers. We have agreed that if the Chamber asks for a specific document, that particular document can simply be provided, unless the interest of the State is at stake. This cabinet made this very explicit and said this also in the debate with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u370	In short, Mr. Van Hattem, we're really going to the second term now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u371	Maybe just a brief word about the director's tables. We are not talking about Article 68 of the Constitution. Suppose a citizen asks for reports from the director's tables on the basis of the Woo, how will the interpretation and assessment of such a phenomenon become like director's tables? If we are talking about an open and transparent attitude on the part of the public authorities, does it no longer apply to a directing table at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u372	Open and transparent should be the general starting point, but we should also be a little bit legally precise. The fact is that these consultation tables are not an administrative body within the meaning of the Woo. So it doesn't lead to automatism. As I said earlier, participants in these tables could be an administrative body, for example a department. We have already talked about the umbrella organisations. Koepelorganisaties as such are not an administrative body and are therefore not covered by the Woo. Again, in some cases the request may be made and the information may also be provided, but in others there may be other ways of informing Parliament. Very often those kinds of tables simply send letters to the Chamber in which all this can be read back. So I can't give it a yes or no answer, but I think it's all set up the way I'm sketching it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u373	Mr Van der Linden has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u374	I have another question for the defenders. Before the start of the second term, can the answer be given to the question about the jump on the Global Right to Information Rating? Then I can process that in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u375	Mr. Faster, may I give you the floor for that? Then I'll give you the chair. Minister, were you at the end of your term? Yes, that's the case. Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It's being cleaned now. Mr Sneller speaks on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u376	Thank you. The shadow jury took a look at the 61 criteria in the Global Right to Information Rating, which exists today exactly ten years. The rough estimate, though, as I said, with the wet finger, is that we would get about 20 points extra if the Woo is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u377	Thank you. We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u378	Mr President, thank you. I still had an unanswered question, but I thought: I do it in my second term; that saves the interruptions again. Thank you to the defenders of the proposal and to the Minister for answering all our questions, and indeed to colleagues for a very nice debate on a very important issue: how do government and citizens interact? How do we ensure transparency and information for citizens? It has been said that this is a complex structure. There are all kinds of statues, from camels to knight's halls. It is complex, inter alia because of all the amendments. I should like to mention 5.2.3, the Van der Molen amendment. In retrospect, like Mr Rombouts, we can say that in some respects it has become a somewhat abrasive law. That's politics. That's how it works sometimes. Is that what we really want? Not on all counts. No one's entirely satisfied. But we have... That is why I started the discussion to read the consolidated text and the consolidated explanatory memorandum. I must honestly say that, with all due respect for the history of origin and its exegesis, it is a very clear position. It is also a very clear starting point. It is quite clear that it is active in public, unless. Then you're gonna specify that, you're gonna work that out. It will then be best shown to the parties that there is too much or just too little regulation here and there and that it is complicated in the implementation, but the standardisation seems to us to be very important. After that, operationalization is needed through PLOOI and so on. We've discussed that trajectory extensively. Actually, I was thinking all night, at least at the answer: we're actually talking about heart, head and hands. Some say it's about the heart, the new governance culture. Of course that's what this is about. If you don't have the willingness to be in it differently, you can make rules whatever you want, but then it doesn't work. Another says: no, it's about the technique; you have to take care of it. In other words, the handicrafts. If you don't have it, it's not gonna work. That's true, too. But what I think we are discussing today is the head, namely rationality, logic, conceptuality. What exactly do we mean? What rules do we make? How's it going to work? In those three-beats of heart, head and hands, I would like to say to Mr Rombouts, that is an essential part, beside the heart and the hands. In short, we welcome the answer. It has helped us on many points. We also welcome the progress made in this proposal. We, as a group, believe that if we did not adopt these proposals, we would miss out on a number of important improvements. That would be extremely sad, even if it could be better. Sure, I can do better. It may be cleaner, more consistent and more nuclear. That's all true, but we've got this. Now we have to say yes or no. We welcome a number of improvements, the standard of public access, active public access and so on. Then there are a few specific questions. I'd like to stop by and look at the answer. As far as the Tromsø Convention is concerned, I have registered that the Minister has undertaken to identify the obstacles to signing. I still get an answer to the question as to whether this could be done in six months' time. I had a motion ready asking for it. I suppose that won't be necessary anymore, but if we don't agree in those six months, maybe I'll come back to it. But in general, thank you for that commitment. The information register is a future wish and is now not part of the law. But when we talk about forward-looking evaluation, because it is a growth model, I am grateful to note. With regard to the Council of State and the restriction of the government's area, I believe that we agree on its qualifications. We in the Chamber will be very critical of the abuse that the government could make of this, if the Council of State disagrees with a request. I think we should be more active on this as representatives of the people. Then Caribbean Netherlands. The government's commitment to promoting public access is very clear. I would like to ask for one tightening up: how can the same level of protection be achieved? So I'm not asking if the Woo can apply there. It is about the level of material protection. Then there's one more unanswered question, about care and education. I see I've run out of time, Mr. Chairman. There is, of course, still a lot of discussion about this. I have heard that there is no substantive reason. Would the government like to see what opportunities there are for reducing inequalities within these sectors in this respect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u379	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u380	Thank you, Mr President. I started my contribution in the first term with quite firm words and a lot of criticism. I can say here that part of this criticism has been removed, on the one hand, by the dialogue with the counterparts and, on the other hand, by the response of the defenders and the minister, although there remains scepticism. Mr Snels started with an example of how such an important subject coalition and opposition in the Lower House have managed to reach an important enforceable law with support, and also unanimously by the Lower House. Mr Snels is also a financial spokesperson. Perhaps he can see if he can come up with a simpler and fairer tax system with the same drive and approach. That's what Cabinets are struggling with. I have two motions for this second term. The first concerns the VNG, the IPO and the Union of Water Councils, which has been discussed a great deal. The: Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Woo does not apply to the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Interprovincial Consultation and the Union of Water Councils (VNG, IPO and UvW), because they are private-law associations and do not qualify as administrative bodies with public authority;]] [[noting that the VNG, the IPO and the UvW only have members governed by public law and are mainly financed by public funds;]] [[having regard to the wish that these bodies commit themselves voluntarily and actively to the Woo;]] [[calls on the Minister to send a public letter to the VNG, IPO and UvW Boards and their members and to:]] [[call on the Woo to commit voluntarily;]] [[offer to remove, in good cooperation, any barriers that stand in the way of this;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33328-X]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u381	Thank you for the motion. It is right that the umbrella organisations should be covered by the Woo. But I still have a few questions about the motion. Now I hear it's about volunteering. If they put it next to them, it could be that maybe one dome does it and the other dome doesn't. So that shouldn't be the case either. It is better if the law and the intention of the legislator are immediately clear. I referred to Article 4.1 (1) of the Woo. It clearly states that it is also under governing bodies...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u382	Do you have a short question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u383	My question is: does Mr Van der Linden agree with me that Article 4.1 already provides for this? Then there is my second point. It's about committing. Is it then intended that there should be a direct submission of Woo requests to umbrella organisations, or should it be through the administrative bodies to which they are linked?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u384	No, the intention is that this can run directly with them, in the sense that it is said: we set ourselves up as the Woo also applies to organs that are covered by it. They will argue: we need resources for this, just as municipalities, for example, will have resources to implement it. The motion says, "Support them to remove that barrier." I would also have preferred it to have been legally secured for them to be covered. It is really a bit of a strange situation that there are all administrators, people's representatives in an organ with sometimes a company still underneath it. In fact, that should be the starting point for me entirely with Mr Van Hattem. But, yes, we can't change that here and amend it. So I think this might be the maximum achievable for now, but if you have any other suggestions, welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u385	I'd like to be brief. Mr. Van Hattem, you're already a champion interrupt today. So do you really want to be brief? I'll give you a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u386	Very briefly, this question. Does Mr Van der Linden agree with me that this is actually covered by Article 4.1 (1) of the Woo and that this obligation is already there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u387	You just asked that question. Mr. Van der Linden, brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u388	In any case, I agree that it should be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u389	My question to Mr Van der Linden is whether you should now ask in a motion whether the Minister is going to send a letter on something that could be done voluntarily. Or are you just asking for a commitment? 'Cause otherwise we're gonna be incredibly thinning motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u390	That's what I did in the first term. I tasted enthusiasm, but not too much enthusiasm for the letter, so that's why the motion. Then there's the other motion, about the ambition for a high ranking on that GRI index. Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands currently scores with 82 out of 150 points on the Global Right to Information ranking moderate (place 73) in terms of the strength of legal frameworks for the right to information;]] [[Whereas this Global Right to Information (GRI) ranking is a valuable and recognised international instrument to assess the strength of legal frameworks for the right to information;]] [[Whereas the expected result of Woo on the score is approximately plus 20 points and a higher level of ambition is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to set as its objective: to achieve a score of at least 125 points in this GRI ranking within four years as the Netherlands, and to make the necessary concrete proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33328-Y]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u391	Mr. Chairman. Then I will come to the point of weighing up and I will then, in the spirit of this law, open up and transparently. Well, that'll fit. I tend to give my group a positive opinion on this bill, not because there is now a completed, coherent approach to all problems with public administration with the report numbers 9 or 10, but because the law scores a close enough score, with room for growth, we shall say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u392	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I call Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the authors, the initiators, the representatives of the House of Representatives, and thanks to the Minister for the detailed answer of the questions. Thank you also to my fellow Members for the fine debate we have had, including Mr Rombouts and Mr Bakker and everyone else. Nice debate. That's how I think it's supposed to be in a senate. The law before us is really a step forward, but it has already been said by several speakers: there are concerns. And some of the concerns have been removed by the debate. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for that. But some of the concerns remain. The authors said that there are also dilemmas. I mentioned them myself in my own contribution. Those dilemmas remain. You can't solve that one in one go. But this law is a step in the right direction, even though it will certainly not be the last step. Dilemmas exist, but can be dealt with in part. The purpose of the law is really very good. That is what I said in my first contribution. I asked what the ultimate objective is, but I did not get a real concrete answer. For me, the ultimate objective of the law is to improve the functioning of the democratic rule of law. I would like to ask the authors whether they agree. The better functioning of the democratic rule of law requires a citizen to be well informed, so that he can obtain his rights and make informed choices in life with regard to public affairs. The fact that Parliament can become well informed is also part of this, although this law does not at first apply. It also includes the need for industry and other organisations to be provided with information from the government, a government that can be contacted. In the end, it should also lead to another, so often mentioned, governance culture. I agree that this is a long-term issue, but this law can contribute to that. I think that's the ultimate goal of this law. I ask whether the proposers agree with that. We've been getting along pretty well for the past nine years. That is underlined in this debate. I still have a few specific questions. On one question we have just fought a little bit: what exactly is the position of alderman and deputy as mentioned in Article 5.2 (3) of the Woo? I'm not quite sure yet. Perhaps the proposers will be able to respond to that again. A case: there is an alderman who goes to an informal consultation, an informal regional consultation, a table or whatever. He goes to an informal meeting and gets all kinds of pieces in his hands. Are the documents of the informal consultation, which the alderman gets his hands on, whether or not they are via the Wooverbar? Is that also the case if the alderman has seen those documents, does not take them home, to the administrative body where he comes from, but just leaves them on the spot? - So they're retrievable? - Yeah. Just now, the Minister said that, for example, a department could be a participant in informal consultations. If that is an informal consultation and if a representative of the department has received and understood documents like that alderman, are those documents available? That is not quite clear to me. The second thing that struck me was that the authors said that documents held by the informant and at the same time held by a department were not available during the cabinet formation. That surprised me. If these are ordinary documents from a department that an informant asked for and would normally have been available if there had been no formation, why are they suddenly no longer available for the duration of a cabinet formation? After all, it can have a perverse effect. If you're lucky to have a very long cabinet formation and want information not to come out, send it to the informant. After that, you won't be able to get it. Is that the point? I can't imagine. I would like a clarification on this point. The Minister was still talking about personal policy ideas. They would not be possible in the first stage in which a policy intimacy should take place and civil servants should be able to continue to discuss, but in a subsequent stage in which different policy alternatives are put on the table. What does that mean? So what are the personal policy ideas for these policy alternatives? How much more personal are they? Or are they just policy alternatives, not traceable to a particular official, even if it is anonymous? Finally. I will give a positive advice to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u394	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Rombouts, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u395	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank people for a nice debate today. After a nine-month history, we have now added nine hours of debate to it. I would like to thank the Minister not only for a serious answer to my questions, but also for the light-hearted way in which she opened. In the meantime, thanks to the intervention of another former alderman of Amsterdam, I have come to Rembrandt's drawing. In the context of active disclosure, I offer you, President, to include it in the Acts, if you wish. Of course it doesn't have to be, because then it will also be known who the other former alderman is. I would like to thank the initiators for their thorough, passionate and motivated response. I admire that. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to start that international comparison anyway. That can only make a profit for what we're aiming for. I would also like to thank Mr Van der Burg for his always inspiring way in which he loosely tries to connect us again and try to touch the core of today's message. I would like to say to Mr Backer that his relativism has been taken from my heart: we must also look at ourselves and Parliament must take self-reflection to heart. Mr. Chairman. I've listened very carefully. I have now shown that by what I have said here and there. I am pleased to see that the initiators and the minister believe in the bill they are defending here, at least, on which they are advising here. Mr Ganzevoort summarized it very well. I had also made a three-stage, but he said it even more beautiful: heart, head and hands. I'd better say it my way. I think it is three things: investing in technology, investing in mentality change and investing in regulation. But you already feel that I have the most trouble with the latter. First two, we're on the same track. We really need to work hard on cultural change. For this debate, I was asked by a journalist how to do that. There are all kinds of methods for that. Drivers in the cap can be trained and they can practice to get a different mindset than they have been in recent decades. I have been pleased to hear that the government is willing to give real money to invest already. I fear, having heard Mr Snels' figures, that much more money will be needed. If we attach such importance to transparency, we must also do so. I'm gonna talk a little faster because of the clock. What remains is that we have a difference of opinion on how many rules should be added. With the Council of State and the scientists I have quoted earlier, we in the CDA really do not believe that we are on the right track with so much fine-meshed and specified legislation, which also looks very stacked with rules on rules and exceptions to exceptions. I am sorry about the initiators, who have done so much about this. You will probably hear from my voice that I mean it. But we also want, because we fully support the intentions, to designate an alternative route. Let us continue to invest together in a sound system of information management, let us really work on this change of attitude, but let us not allow this law to be accepted by this Chamber and do what I said in the first term. The Minister has already promised the international comparison. In addition, let us prepare an evaluation of the Wob and produce a much less comprehensive system of articles and legislation. Mr President, I have prepared a motion which is supported by Mr Schalk and Mr Talsma of the SGP and the Christian Union, respectively, in which I ask for a ruling from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u396	Would you like to file the motion as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u397	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u398	Then you'll have to read to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u399	Because I don't do this every week, I doubted for a moment if I could read to her or if you would. The: Mr Rombouts, Mr Schalk and Mr Talsma proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is broad consensus to make public authorities more transparent in order to serve the importance of public information disclosure for the democratic rule of law;]] [[noting that the Council of State expressed serious doubts as to whether the principles of this initiative proposal would be achieved;]] [[having regard to the fact that scientific criticism has been levelled at whether this legislative proposal will bring the active disclosure and the desired change in administrative culture closer;]] [[points out that it is not so much a question of more detailed regulation but of investment in the information system and a change in attitudes among drivers;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an evaluation of the Public Administration Act and to prepare a proposal to invest in a sound system of government information management and a change of mindset among directors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33328-Z]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u400	I have a clarification question. Is this motion now a motion, or is it actually an explanation of vote that you say you are going to vote against? Sounds a bit like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u401	It's definitely a motion. We ask the government to do something. Mr President, I would very much like you to put this motion to the vote next Tuesday before the draft law. Then the march route for plan B, or whatever you want to call it, comes to a vote before we vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u402	The question is whether the Chamber grants leave of absence. That's the case. There's no objection to that. Then that's how we're gonna do it. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of points for the second term. I am now primarily focusing on the defenders of the initiative proposal. That's what I call them. First of all, on the relative grounds of exception. I have just found a quote from Mr Daalder in the report of the 2016 expert meeting. He is one of the largest experts in the Netherlands in the field of the Wob. He said at that expert meeting: "It is therefore striking that when the relative grounds for exceptions are formulated, the grounds on which a consideration is to be made have been changed. In Article 5.1.2, second paragraph, it was initially stated that an interest could only oppose disclosure if it was seriously harmed, but at the end the current provision in the Wob fell back. There is an increased obligation to state reasons, but it already applies anyway. So if the intention is to be more open, then I have to say that the balancing of interests in the new law is no different from that in the old one, while at first a different choice was made." My question to the defenders is whether they can indicate to what extent Mr Daalder has responded to this criticism, especially now that the existing case law on grounds of exception has been taken on board in its entirety. There is quite a lot of case law, which often complicates Wob procedures. Then there is the second point. I have just referred to this a few times. That is Article 4.1 (1) of the Open Government Act. My question is how the defenders of the bill look at umbrella organisations such as VNG and IPO. Should they be dealt with in this way in the case of a Wob request in accordance with that article? That brings me to the third point. That's Article 5.2 (3). That is what I asked for in the first period. That is the formal administrative decision-making process. It is said in "personal policy views," et cetera, that this does not apply if the interest is disproportionately harmed. I would like an explanation from the legislator of the term 'unreasonably harmed'. What are the criteria for "unreasonably harmed"? Is there a specific framework for this? My fourth point concerns the point that Mr Koole rightly made: how do the defenders look at the position of the administrative consultative tables? I would like to get a very clear statement on this, given the intention of this bill. The fifth point is a point from the practice of local and provincial authorities. If a council proposal is submitted to an administrative body, and this is done in cooperation between the municipality and the province, the members of the municipal council will face a lot and the members of the provincial states will not face it. It is said that this document is of strategic importance only for the city council. How does that relate to the Open Government Act? Can a Member of State then say: I want to have that piece, too, even if the college of that municipality refuses to do so? How is this conflict or interest between the county and the municipality or any government agency going to crystallize? Is there a view of that from the point of view of the initiators? My next point. I would like to return to the decision of the Council of State on the Wob request on the CdK agenda. For the sake of clarity, please state that that request was made by myself at the time. The explanatory memorandum to Article 5.7, referred to by the applicants, states that the administrative body does not need to examine whether the information requested can be made public before Article 5.7 is discussed. And it says: intervention by an administrative body is limited to whether the information that an investigator wishes to use is public under Articles 5.1 and 5.2. If not, the law forbids the use of that information. I wonder when such a piece will or will not become public if it is requested for investigation. Can they give a sketch of that? Finally, it was indicated by the Minister that the deadlines for the processing of requests have increased. As far as PVV is concerned, these deadlines should be speeded up, speeded up and speeded up. Finally, a recommendation to the Minister: to make substantial savings on the use of black paint. So far, Chairman, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u404	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the representatives of the House of Representatives who defended the bill and to the Minister for the sound and complete answer of the questions. As Mr van der Burg also said, it has been another educational debate for me. In addition to being enriched, it has also strengthened me in the usefulness and necessity of the proposal. The implementation issues have been addressed in detail. I believe that the Minister has not been reluctant to describe what she finds and what needs to be done. I asked for reassurance, and I got it. At the same time, I also received a sketch which may not reassure me. But I do see that the intention is there and the reassurance was mainly about the pace and care of introduction. I'm happy about that. Mr Talsma and Mr Rombouts raised the point of necessity. I have been thinking about this in the debate. I have come to the conclusion that Article 8 of the Wob does not seem to have the normative capacity we would have wanted, otherwise we would not have been in the situation described. Nor would we have had the discussion about the government's duty of care, which we have now had. That is, I think, a very important discussion. The standard is not only set, but there must also be a multiannual plan. Those are the sticks behind the door that Mr Sneller mentioned. And there's an advisory committee. The Minister said that things have to be different. I believe that this is the beginning of a new period and that we are taking a fundamental step today. It is a pity that some colleagues are unable to see it. Anyway, those are choices. I have one point to make about the limitation which is particularly addressed by the universities. Experience with, for example, the Good Governance Code and also charities shows that this code has been voluntarily adopted by many organisations. This means that the legislative effect is much greater than we are currently planning. I see that there is still much more to be achieved with voluntary membership. Then it could have a good, beneficial effect, greater than the text of the law literally shows. Mr. Chairman. The word "democracy" fell. I used that myself in my first term. A great thinker of democracy, De Tocqueville, pointed out that there are several ways in which a democracy can derail. One is the despotic power of the central government. That's what this is a counterpower for. Finally, Mr President. After this long journey through the desert, there is a good chance that the First Chamber will be able to bring this proposal to the finish line. And what kind of animal is the best suited to take that trip? It's been discussed a few times tonight. I will give a positive advice to the D66 Group to support the proposals with great conviction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u406	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u407	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the representatives of the House of Representatives and to the Minister for the detailed explanation of the bill and the answers to the many questions. If I have understood correctly from MP Snels, the concern expressed by me and others with me about the cultural change that would be necessary to make this bill a success is in fact unfounded. By setting standards in this bill, it will, as it were, give clarity to the governing bodies, thus ensuring the success of this bill. Is this a correct interpretation of his introduction? Mr. Chairman. The answer of MP Sneller about the non-implementation of a ruling by the Council of State was very short. Let me put the question a little more explicitly. Why can't grounds for refusal be interpreted restrictively by Article 5.1 (2) of the Woo? Information which does qualify for disclosure can be separated from information which actually undermines international relations? That part shall not be made public. Partial disclosure serves the general public interest. I'd like another comment on this. Mr. Chairman. For my group, it is also very important for officials to be able to continue to deliver their opinions freely, without being able to speak to them from among the citizens themselves. The final responsibility for a decision taken is and remains with the administrative body, and that is a fundamental reassurance. The Minister also stressed this once again. If this bill is adopted, the feasibility will undoubtedly create dilemmas and problems, but 50PLUS assumes that it will continue to be coloured as time passes. All things considered, I will advise my group to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u408	Thank you, Mrs Baay-Timmerman. Mr Van der Burg has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u409	Mr. Chairman. Thanks, too, to the defenders. Your work is done tonight or formally next week. As soon as the vote is over, we are once again colleagues who have to check the Minister together. I am in the fortunate circumstance that I had faith in this minister before she became a minister, and I also have confidence in the words she has spoken here about how it may or may not continue to be implemented after her time in this post. But much more important is the following. Since we have all talked about a change of mind, a change of culture that must take place, that is not really a task for the Minister. Yes, of course the Minister has its responsibility for government officials, but a change of mind regarding an open government is a material task for all MPs in the First and Second Chambers and other leading politicians. After all, this change of attitude means that we drivers should not be directly charged with what we get from public information and thus punish people for disclosure, but that we should also use that information to learn for the future. This also means that we must select colleagues who are fit to work as drivers and who do not keep their officials short. It means that we set a good example in all the functions we have. We decide on legislation, but a change of mind starts with ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u410	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Mrs Gerkens has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers from the three people there, behind the table. Thank you also for the commitment to work hard on a connecting strategy. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to send that plan for this connection strategy or at least a letter to this Chamber when this phase is completed. The Minister also mentioned the phased entry into force of this law. I believe that the date of 1 May has been mentioned; perhaps you can confirm that. The question is: if that is staged, which governing bodies are chosen in stages? How's that going? How do we hear that? Is that gonna work for KB? What procedure will be followed? Mr. Chairman. I agree with the Minister that the information has increased. That might be the best profit warning for tonight, because that's not always better. That reminds me of a story of a man who led a great institution. He was the director there, and when I got to his office, it was a big office, and there were no papers anywhere. I was thinking about the piles I've got all over the place and I asked him, "Why aren't there any papers here?" And then he said, I'm actually just saving what's really essential in order to be able to do my job right, and that just fits right here, in this drawer. Mr. Chairman. Less is more, the English say. And, to use another English expression, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Here's the bill; now it's time to taste. Then comes the evaluation and we can see if that pudding was good, but I assume that if necessary we can also take steps much earlier. So yes, it's complicated legislation; let's not sit still when we run into something, but then take that step so much sooner than after those three years. Mr President, that was it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u412	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. Mr Talsma has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u413	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thanks to the defenders. I started to say this afternoon how inspiring the Binnenhof was for me in preparing this debate, but what a defense this was! It was very inspiring. Thank you very much for that. To be honest, I wish every initiative proposal such defenders and such an advisor. Let that be said. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to international research. That is a very small response to what I have put forward on behalf of my group, but I am certainly pleased with that step. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the debate. I say to Mr Backer that this is a fundamental issue. With great respect for the exchange of views and for their educational nature, I would like to stress that, especially for me when it comes to the exchange of views with all of you, this also means that you can achieve different results in such a fundamental matter. As far as we are concerned, this is the case, because our concerns about the complexity of the legislation, its feasibility and also its affordability have persisted. I'll take one trip in there when it comes to an example. I mentioned several examples this afternoon in the first term. It strikes me that the response in particular brings out the execution tests. Mr Snels mentioned them and Mr Snelter touched on them, but the Minister made a number of comments. They are really put forward as some sort of supporting ground when it comes to feasibility. I think I have heard the Minister say 'we have really taken the time'. I didn't go through all 314 pages, but I really thought, "Can this be true?" I looked at a lot of them pretty quickly after all. Let me give you a few examples. LNV and EZ say: it has been a very tight timetable. We urge that a full implementation test be carried out in due course. The CJIB talks about a global inventory and says not to be able to say much about it because it really had to be very fast. The Return and Departure Service says: we haven't actually been able to have it investigated, because it really had to be too fast. The D.A. says it's a gross, preliminary assessment because of the short time frame for the analysis. OCW says: a very short time frame, so think of this as a finger exercise, a well-educated guess. And finally JenV, not even the smallest department: "Even for a legally skilled department like ours, it is extremely difficult to interpret this law properly. We find that particularly difficult. This makes the consequences for the implementation particularly difficult to assess." I do not understand, then, that is the question with which I would like to finish how the proposers, but also the minister, can lean so heavily on these execution tests. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u414	Thank you. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u415	I find it interesting what Mr Talsma calls, because without these execution tests he would not have known this. He uses it to judge this bill and looks at it differently than we do. But one of the interesting and ongoing insights of this legislation is, of course, that we are going to read those execution tests and those insights in the future by default. Then we can ask about it. Seems to me that's a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u416	I wholeheartedly agree, I say to Mr Backer, that this is a profit. Only, for the answer to the question of whether we can describe this bill as 'executable' and whether we can give our support to it, do I indeed use these execution tests. Earlier, of course, there was the impact analysis of ABDTOP-and-a-small-bee. That was the social cost-benefit analysis, which came with the most diverse, but certainly also very often negative results. In any case, I do not see any improvement in these execution tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u417	Mr Talsma has signed a motion, so I do not think I can run him any further. But who knows, there's another week in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u418	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u419	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u420	Finally, Mr Schalk will speak on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u421	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also, of course, like to thank both Mr Snels and Mr Sneler and the Minister for the way in which they have responded. Today, by the way, it sounded as if almost everyone had supported this bill. However, this was not the case in 2016. However, almost all parties supported the novelle. The law is a different story. Almost all parties have expressed their concerns about it. The SGP still has concerns, for example about the overwhelming amount of information that will soon have to be released. We also have concerns about the position of officials, not of officials working in a ministry, but of officials in places where their position can be traced. We are concerned about the many black-painted documents. Each document must, in future, determine how it is delivered, for whatever system. Very practical: I wonder, for example, what this means for an organization like the First Chamber. I am not very worried about the minutes of the College of Seniors which I would prefer to go outside, but I am very concerned about, for example, all kinds of advice from the Registry to senators. The Minister spoke about contacts, public relations. What does this mean? If we are prepared to do so, I would ask the President. I do not know whether he intends to respond to this in this debate. Mr. Chairman. De Woo gives rights to the citizen, but through a very heavy duty for the government. In short, this law cannot get the support of my group. The Wob offers plenty of opportunities if there were to be a different mentality. That is why I supported Mr Rombouts' motion. But should this law be passed, my group will immediately help to repair the damage by voting in favour of the novella. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u422	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then we'll be at the end of this term. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. To answer Mr Schalk's question straight away: I would not dare to anticipate the vote by the Chamber. That answer will therefore have to wait a while, depending on what happens next week. Mr. Snels, Mr. Faster, Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That is not the case. You want a suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u423	I'd like a 15-minute suspension. There are still a lot of technical questions that have been asked in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u424	Fifteen minutes. Then we'll suspend until 11:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u425	I give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have chosen to change the order in the second period. A number of new questions have been asked and there have been a number of questions which I would like to deal with in the second term. Let me start with Mrs Baay, who rightly says that the answer to the case law of the Council of State and the reason not to codify it was very fast. Let me think a little bit more about that. This was a specific statement, in which the Council of State said "in that particular case, the interests were not sufficiently mapped" while the need for a balance of interests was sufficient in itself in the law. That is one reason why we say that we do not need to include the specific balance of interests in this case law in this law. The general framework is, and was sufficiently clear, but the way in which it was implemented was insufficient. Mrs Baay's second question dealt with the grounds for refusal. Yes, these must be interpreted restrictively and that is laid down in Article 5.1, which states the words "to the extent." So I think we are in agreement on that. Then I owed Mr Van Hattem the answer to his question: is a Woo request always a Woo request, or should it be explicitly a Woo request? I almost gave the right answer in the first term. Yes, in principle that is the case. It doesn't have to be called Woo request, so the governing body has to accept "yes, it's a Woo request" unless the context clearly shows that that is not the case, for example when someone asks for his own file or asks for more information in a letter of application; such examples. Then it's not a Woo request. Then Mr Van Hattem also asked a question about the alderman at the climate table. However, I remain at first-term answer, namely that if there is information with the municipality, that information is covered by the Woo, unless one of the exceptions applies. And there's not always a duty to bring that kind of meeting pieces. It also depends on the nature of those documents. That is what I am saying to Mr Koole. The alderman who goes to informal consultation is, for the sake of clarity, not what the Van der Molen amendment sees on it. It does not therefore concern paragraph 3. But then it depends on whether the informal consultations include documents that go back to the governing body. Then it falls underneath. But if, for example, the alderman has informal consultations in the party sphere, it is not included. But I might add that in abundance. If someone is a member of the national government of a political party and documents are handed out on that board, that alderman has them, but is not there as an alderman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u427	Mr Van Hattem, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u428	It is said that it is about the nature of the documents. Could the defenders indicate what that nature is determined by? Secondly, the alderman who goes to informal consultations. We can therefore narrow it down to the exercise of the public task, i.e. an informal consultation in the context of the public task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u429	Exactly. And on the first point: that is more to avoid suggesting that if there is an excursion or a work visit and there is a document that deals with this, there is a duty to take it from the informal consultation to the governing body.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u430	Still, about the informal administrative consultation. If an alderman gets pieces there and takes them to the college, they fall under the Woo? My second question was: if he did see those pieces but didn't take them, are they convertible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u431	We also discussed the scope of the concept of "rest" in the first period. If he or she has seen these documents but has not taken them on board, they are not, in principle, part of the administrative body.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u432	So if in that informal administrative consultation very sensitive matter is at issue and if you want to keep the pieces secret, then it is wise not to bring them home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u433	I cannot answer the question whether that is wise or not. It seems to me from the point of view of openness that this depends on what is being discussed. It's not: because it's sensitive, you shouldn't take it. That does not seem to me to be a sensible way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u434	No, I said, if you want to keep it a secret, which I'm not for, if that's your goal, then it's obvious not to bring the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u435	Let's not give anyone any ideas. Then there's the question about the informant. For the sake of clarity, this is about documents prepared for the cabinet formation. I had not fully understood the question about the perverse effect in the first period. In the meantime, those documents which are already held by the administrative board before the formation started but which are then sent to an informant who takes seven months, do not need to be made public, are closed by the criterion that they must be documents drawn up for the purpose of the cabinet formation. I come to Mr Van Hattem's questions on the relative grounds of exception and Mr Daalder's comments on this. That's right. This heavier justification was taken out in the first parliamentary examination of the Open Government Act. That's the short, honest answer. Then there is the question about the domes and Article 4.1. The dome is not the hierarchical relationship referred to in Article 4.1. That's the answer to that. Then there is the disproportionate damage from Article 5.2 (3). In the written preparation, a number of examples were given of negotiations with local partners and of the fact that it can be traced back to the official in question and it may pose a risk to that official due to circumstances, because it is very few or because it is clear from the post who it would be. I have answered the question about the administrative consultation tables, I think. Then there is the question about the active intelligence obligation of the mayor's and aldermen's college towards the city council and the relationship with the Woo. I think Mr Van Hattem also had that debate with the Minister. As with Article 68 of the Constitution, there are two different relationships. The active duty of information between parliament and college is, in principle, outside what the Woo then regulates and allows. Then I fear that I will have to give the same answer about the King's Commissioner as in the first term, namely that the regime under Article 5.7 will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u436	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Snels, who will also speak on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this second period, it was not entirely fair, because my colleague, Mr Sneller, got all kinds of complicated, difficult legal questions on his plate. But I also have a number of questions, which were sometimes more specifically addressed to me. The first question was from Mr Van der Linden: would you also like to take on board the reform of the tax system as soon as possible? My fingers are itching. That's all I'm gonna say. That's up to a new cabinet. Mr Koole asked me something that I had answered in the first term, namely: what exactly is the purpose of the law? I found his wording, in which I recognised my own answer, to be correct: the better functioning of the democratic rule of law, with his qualifications paying particular attention to the position of the citizen in it. I share that from A to Z, so thank you for this well-defined objective. Then I have an answer to Mr Talsma on the implementation tests. I think the Minister will take that up with him. He was critical of that. What we have been saying over and over again, I think the Minister has even said it literally: there has been almost no law that has been tested so much. That started here in the First Chamber with the quickscan of ABDTOPConsult. Then we did an SME and all the decentralised execution tests. Why are we even doing that? We don't just do that to make sure it's executable, in the sense of: check it behind it and it can go through. That's what we do to learn from it. With every step and test that has been done, from quickscan, to SMBA and decentralised execution tests, we have made adjustments to the law. That's exactly what we did. That is the answer to Mr Talsma's question. Mr. Chairman. I should like to thank you all for this debate, also on behalf of Mr Sneller. I really liked the debate. I have enjoyed the insertion of all the members of the Chamber, from the legislative input of the PVV to the critical mentality of the CDA. When I had heard the first term and we had to prepare the answer together with the two employees in a room here, I said to those employees: I will try to convince them. That's the debate you want to have. You try to convince each other, to go into the arguments and give answers to the questions, but we do from a history. We are now standing here as the two proposers, but we stand on the shoulders of the previous proposers and on the shoulders of many parliamentarians in the Second and First Chambers, and of advisers to all kinds of organizations and administrative bodies. They have all contributed to this bill. That is why it still feels like a very special honour and a very special moment to be able to defend this bill here. Finally, I would like to thank the two employees here and one at a distance, Jaap van der Heijden, Marte van der Loop and Lentine Schouten, for all the work they have done in recent years, but certainly this evening. It is a challenge for two Members of Parliament, who come up with an initiative law on behalf of the Chamber, to have to respond so quickly to all the complex and difficult questions. We can't do that without working hard on the employees sitting in the back of a room down here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u438	Thank you, Mr. Quick. Finally, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for a nice debate. I like to join Mr Ganzevoort's metaphor: the heart, the head and the hands. I think they have all come up well in the debate. It is quite a matter of holding the last debate on own-initiative legislation with a long history. I think it's nice and honorable to have been allowed to do that. Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions and motions. I'm just doing it in the order of the speakers. I shall begin with Mr Ganzevoort. He may have asked the most comprehensive question, so this is the most comprehensive answer I give in this second term. He asked about the possibilities that exist within the Dutch state-law relationship to make the obligation of transparency materially equal between different institutions within the same sector. That was his point. In fact, he says: "What can be required of semi-public institutions and private companies? What can be done now and what can be done in the future?" It is legally and politically relevant that the bill no longer provides a basis for bringing semi-public institutions under the scope of the Woo through an AMvB, let alone private institutions. In adopting the Bishop amendment, the House of Representatives took a clear position on this. It has therefore sought to limit the scope of the law to the public sector, arguing that an extension does not fit in with the state-law relationships in force in the Netherlands. There is therefore no legal scope to achieve a mandatory level playing field. This is also due to the lack of political support for this in the Lower House. I also refer to what the initiators have already explained in response to this question. The distinction within sectors, for example between public and special schools, is more a distinction resulting from general administrative law than from public access legislation. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in a sector such as education, agreements can be made on the voluntary disclosure of information, including by schools or universities not covered by the Woo. I hope that I have been able to give Mr Ganzevoort a clear answer on this point. He also informed about the Caribbean Netherlands. My promise was that we will ensure that it becomes part of the talks. It's always important at the BES to ask what can happen. That should simply be considered in consultation. That is often quite custom-made, by looking at what the islands themselves want, but it is just on the agenda as far as I am concerned. Then there is Mr Ganzevoort's third question. He reminded me of the question he had asked me in the first term. I said that we are identifying the obstacles to the Tromsø Treaty. I do believe that the deadline outlined by Mr Ganzevoort is feasible. I say to the Chamber that I will take care of it. I am going to start doing so now at least that it will be ready in the spring of next year. That corresponds to about those six months. Then I come to Mr Van der Linden. As Mr Snels actually said, it is indeed nice to have a debate, to ask critical questions and to be convinced by the answers, during the debate, on points. I would like to thank Mr Van der Linden for that. He's filed two motions. I know it might be a little late for this kind of cow business, but I'm gonna try anyway. Mr van der Linden's first motion, under letter X, concerns the VNG, IPO and the Union of Water Councils. Now I would suggest to Mr van der Linden that the whole motion is not really necessary, because instead of the uncertain outcome of a vote on the motion, he can get a firm commitment from me. That is the commitment that I will discuss with the domes whether we can promote together that the members, because they are administrative bodies, the documents that are on relevant subjects on the domes, make public. Through that route, we'll do the best we can to make sure that those documents just go public. That's one. That is purely through that route to ensure what is at stake, namely that documents become public. Secondly, I will say that these questions have been asked and that I can imagine that the umbrella organizations at some point, quite voluntarily, are saying: given the nature of our work, it is obvious that we should be doing so. On a voluntary basis, I'm gonna wear this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u440	That in itself is a nice suggestion. In the spirit of this debate on public access, you are going to discuss it with these domes, but how nice it would be if those Members, in all public view, were to be involved in that opinion of yours in the spirit of this debate, conveying the feelings of this Chamber and the consensus of this debate and saying: that would be a nice gesture; you are going to do it yourself, to hold a meeting of Members and vote on it openly. That would actually be more appropriate to the spirit of this bill than what is being proposed here. Doesn't the Minister think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u441	Yeah, I can imagine that, too. As I said, I would like to put it on the agenda in the conversations I have with the domes, but the domes do indeed have members, and the members are simply administrative bodies and therefore subject to the law and are already preparing for these adjustments. I hope they listened in at this late hour. But then my question remains: is the commitment I have just made sufficient for Mr Van de Linden or does he wish to maintain his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u442	Mr Van der Linden is still thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u443	Okay, good. He also has time for that, because I also have a second motion, under letter Y, of his hand. In the first term, the Court responded to that ranking. I love lists and I want the Netherlands to be high in them, but I just don't know this list. I asked in the department, too. I can't really judge the quality of this ranking. That is why I cannot judge the motion as such Chamber. I could make a general commitment, namely that we are going to see what kind of relevant lists are in which we can measure these kinds of things. Maybe it's this one, but maybe there are other rankings we could use. Then the goal should be to rise by de Woo as such but that we try to get a nice place for the Netherlands by working for more transparency and openness, depending on the list we choose. So just because I don't know the ranking list, I dissuade the motion, but I fully understand the objective behind it, and I think Mr van der Linden and I agree on that. Mr Koole also made a comment on the personal policy ideas and the phase-out I made in my reply. My answer was that at the stage where the decision still has to be taken, there must be room for exchanges of ideas and concepts. That can be in the form of policy alternatives, but it can also be much more volatile, in the form of: you think about something and you share that thought with a colleague and then maybe come up with something completely different. So at that stage, of course, you don't have to do that. Once the decision has been made, it is different. Then it is good to be able to reconstruct on the basis of which advice, what information and what policy alternatives a decision has been made. So that was the phasering I put in. The second element of Mr Koole's question was about anonymity. When personal policy ideas are made public, this is done in anonymous form. We agreed not to release names. What is a personal policy view, which varies greatly, but because it becomes public in anonymity and afterwards, there is no objection at all to making visible how this policy decision-making was made. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u444	Still, the question to the Minister: in the second phase, what are those anonymised personal policy ideas, other than that different alternatives are being presented and made known? They must have been delivered by an official we don't know. It's no more than that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u445	That could be very good. Again, this is also different on a case-by-case basis. It depends on the subject. How much knowledge is there in such a department? If there is a lot of knowledge, it will be very structured and clear, I think. At a time when it is perhaps more general, you can imagine that it is less specific and that a lot of knowledge and information needs to be obtained before it is structured leading to a view and policy alternatives and perhaps eventually a final opinion. It's not easy, but it's hard to say exactly. I was mostly concerned with the phase. It can't be that during that thought-forming, that policy intimacy that has been mentioned, you're at that time disrupting the process of professional advice by making it public prematurely. But once it has taken place and decision-making has taken place, there is nothing against making that public. Then these personal policy ideas are part of it. I understand Mr Koole, because I also have a bit of a problem with the concept of 'personal policy'. What someone personally thinks of is not so terribly relevant, but that is not what civil servants are doing either. They are not concerned with their personal opinion. It is sometimes said: put two economists in one room and you have three opinions. In that sense, of course, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u446	Then I am very curious with the Minister what, in the end, these personal policy ideas are anonymized in that second phase. I don't see them yet, other than just the different alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u447	We'll see, because we're all gonna get it, Mr. Koole. Then I'll be with Mr Rombouts. The commitment on the international comparison stands. That is what I am saying to Mr Talsma. I am pleased that Mr Rombouts has shown some enthusiasm at least in two of the three parts: technology and mentality change. In my view, we share the whole notion that it is important to invest in order to get the information system in order and to work on that change of attitude among drivers, as Mr Rombouts outlined. He filed a motion with the letter "Z" and I must advise against it. I think that Mr Rombouts expects nothing less from me. The Woo really offers more than detailed regulation. That's not the end in itself. De Woo is asking for openness, forcing us to get the information system in order and is helping to change the mentality that must take place. Mr Rombouts and I agree on that. These active disclosure obligations, planned work on the information system, an independent advisory body: there are no such elements in the legislation now. I think that these are an improvement and that we should focus on and devote our energy to implementing the Woo implementation. That's really something completely different from an evaluation of the Wob. I reject Mr Rombouts' motion. A number of speakers have not asked me any questions, but I have listened to them very carefully. Mrs Gerkens did ask a question. I would like to say that I will inform the First Chamber about the connection plan for PLOOI and the various organisations involved. I said we'll finish this year. I hope it will succeed in informing the Chamber this year. Otherwise it'll be the beginning of next year. They're working very hard on it right now. I believe that Mrs Gerkens has asked another question. That's right. When are you gonna decide which board members and how? First there is consultation with interested parties. I mentioned the domes, but of course it is also about the departments and the implementing organisations within the Empire. So it is a consultation with them. What can they do? What do they want? I will go into that in that letter. Next, I would almost say it goes to KB, by tranche. What are you going to do and which administrative bodies are going to participate? I'll make it clear in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u448	I have given some thought and counted my buttons on those motions and the Minister's offer. I'm prepared to withdraw the motion over the domes. However, I would ask the Minister to make it clear in the discussions with the domes that the involvement of Members in these matters is important, especially when an offer is made to regulate funding in a proper manner, for example. If the Minister would agree to that, I'd like to withdraw that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u449	Thank you very much and this is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u450	As the Van der Linden motion (, 35112, letter) has been withdrawn, it is no longer the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u451	With regard to the other motion on the high ranking on the GRI index, I understand that the Minister is now saying: I cannot yet judge that, so, just to be safe, I would advise against the motion. That's how I interpret it. We are okay with other lists being added and looking at how we score on them, but the strength of this motion is precisely to radiate an ambition and an objective and to rise on that index within four years. I understand the Minister's uncertainty that she can't judge it, but fortunately the members of this house have another week to carefully look up that website and ask about it. So I'd like to take that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u452	Hold or maintain?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u453	I would like to put it to the vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u454	I take note of that. Then I'm at the last question that was asked to me. It belonged to Mr. Talsma. Mr Snels also spoke about this. That question was about the execution test. In my speech, I did indeed outline the whole process, including execution tests, but also, indeed, the quickscan, the SMEA, the decentralised execution test and so on. I have indeed pointed out that every step has also led to improvements and adjustments. However, these implementation tests have given a clear picture of where these problems lie in the implementation. Mr Talsma read such texts because, among other things, it was seen by departments, implementing organizations, etc., that it was a big deal. Following these execution tests, the legislative proposal has also been tightened up, for example with regard to the large number of documents. I mentioned it earlier today. The departments have since then started preparing the implementation and the steps needed to achieve the implementation of the Woo. In addition, the execution tests had """ which is of course important for organisations """ to aim to reflect the costs as well. As has been said, we have now reserved those resources, so that there is also a budget to implement the Woo. So we do not know everything, certainly not, and we will undoubtedly face new questions, but it has given an image. It has led to adjustment. Finally, I would like to point out that we did this for the steps we have taken in connection with the parliamentary committee of inquiry, i.e. for active disclosure, as we have already designed it, even for the much more ambitious plans that the cabinet has now launched in order to get the information system in order. So this is also about the mentality change that some speakers have been talking about. I think that the departments are now much more aware of the fact that it is really important to get things in order. Some hesitations that may have been there, they will have left behind them by now and they simply stick their hands out of their sleeves. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u455	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-eerstekamer-11.u456	I have come to deal with both legislative proposals. First of all, that bill is 33328, the Open Government Act. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on on 5 October. Finally, bill 35112, the Amendment Act Woo. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on on 5 October. I also propose that we vote on the motions tabled on 5 October. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. The reading tip I'll give you when you get home tonight is the poem Annie M.G.'s camel. Schmidt. I can recommend that to all of you. It has a strong link with this debate. I would like to thank all the members of the House of Representatives Snels and Sneller, the Minister and all the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
