ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the continuation of the General Political Reviews. I would once again like to welcome the spokesmen and leaders in trade union K; the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I also welcome, of course, everyone who follows the debate; the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Today we start with the Government's answer to questions put by the Chamber yesterday. I would remind the spokesmen that there is more room for debate if the interruptions are short and concise and are not introduced with a long introduction. I actually wanted to give the floor to the Prime Minister, but I see a number of people standing. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV. Then come Mrs Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Azarkan. But first, Mr Wilders of the PVV has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u2	I'd like to give it a shot anyway. Before we start talking all day about the budget again, I would actually like to ask whether we should do this today. I do not know whether that is a point of order or a request to the Prime Minister. Mr Rutte, I say through the chairman that you resigned nine months ago, you negotiated for six months, you got a motion of censure on your pants and people from your cabinet left with bushes, because the Chamber invited them to do so or because they were going to fill their pockets somewhere in business. The Netherlands now simply needs a stable cabinet, a new, missionary and stable cabinet. You're not gonna be able to do that. You haven't done that in six months. Of course there is a debate today and we will continue to see how things are going, but yesterday it turned out that the broad middle that you are so hoping for is not really there. I would therefore like to appeal to the Prime Minister in the interest of the Netherlands: no longer proceed with this mission impossible. You're not gonna make it. There's not enough trust. Help the Netherlands. This is not a political game. I've been calling this for at least six months. Help the Netherlands by issuing new elections, so that a new cabinet with a fresh mandate, renewed trust and perhaps with new relationships can solve the Dutch problems of immigration to housing. You're not gonna be able to do that. I invite you to do so at the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u3	Maybe it's okay if the Prime Minister can respond to that later. I would also like to let the others speak. First, Mrs Ploumen, then Mr Klaver and then Mrs Marijnissen. Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr President, good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u5	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u6	Yesterday we spoke to the missionary chamber about solutions to the problems of the Netherlands, because it is clear that we have nothing to expect from the missionary cabinet and the plans presented. At the start of this debate, I would like to ask the Prime Minister something. Motions and amendments will be tabled shortly. We are going to present our plans and submit them to the Chamber. Does the Prime Minister intend to implement in full the motions and amendments that are being adopted? That is an important question at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u7	This question is also given to the Prime Minister. Mr Klaver joined Mrs Ploumen. I saw Mrs. Marijnissen for a moment. No? Okay. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister to at least respond to the questions that have just been asked and then we shall proceed to the rest of the debate. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr Wilders actually said it himself. He said, "I've been calling for a new election for six months. Those elections were in the middle of March. Indeed, a few weeks after that election, he started calling for new elections. Of course, that is not the way to achieve a stable government. I would like to say two things about this. First of all, I think that is what we all find in this Chamber, and certainly in what Uri Rosenthal once called 'the broad political centre', I think that there should be a cabinet soon. I think that goes from GroenLinks to VVD. Two. As long as that stable new cabinet is not in place, you can count on this outgoing cabinet on behalf of the King to do whatever is necessary for a stable government. In this connection, as we have always said, it considers itself missionary in particular on two issues, namely the fight against the corona crisis and the resolution of the terrible affair with the childcare allowance. That at that point. Then there are the amendments and the motions. Once amendments have been incorporated into a law, the cabinet may at most refuse to accept the contradiction. This is highly unusual and even very vulnerable in the case of a budget. That seems to me to be an extremely unlikely route. If motions are adopted despite negative advice, they will of course, as always, not yet be discussed; we will, of course, have the debate in the Cabinet. Then we'll come back to the Chamber very soon with an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mr Wilders and then to Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u10	The Prime Minister is really getting away with it. I didn't just call it six months ago. I called it six months ago because you received a motion of censure on 1 April. I see you standing next to me when I asked the question on 1 April: Mr Rutte, what does it mean that you got that motion of censure on your pants? You literally said to me then, and people at home might remember that: I'm going to do my stinking best to regain trust. You said that on 1 April. You haven't gained trust from anyone since. You have not won Mrs Kaag's trust. She stabbed you in the back with six knives with her lecture for Elsevier. You didn't get the confidence of the broad middle yesterday, which you did. Look at the NIPO poll on Princess' Day. Whereas 32% of the voters said they had little faith in you last year, 56% of the Dutch now say they no longer have faith in you. Since that motion of censure, unlike Mrs Kaag, you have remained seated, against a better knowledge of what is happening, you have lost everyone's confidence. That means that you will remain seated for your own good. You will not sit for the Netherlands, but for your own interest and your own dominant position in the Tower. That's antisocial and selfish. You must think in Dutch interest and hold elections. Then we can solve the problems in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u11	The question of power in the Netherlands is sorted out in elections. Then it is considered which parties become large or small. Think also of pre-choice voices and so on. That power demand was ahead of March 17th. I am extremely proud that my party has become the largest party, far from the other parties. That also obliges us to deal with the results carefully. As the largest party, we are, of course, particularly responsible for a formation that is not getting under way fast enough. We therefore feel the obligation to do everything in our power to speed up this formation. I'm assuming that could happen in the next few weeks. But that is when that question is put to the electorate. That question has been asked, and I think it has been answered convincingly. I feel the obligation, the duty, to deal with the outcome of these elections in a sensible manner, to do everything in my power to bring about this stable government, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u12	There's a lot at stake today. Today, as House of Representatives, we can make sure that people can finally find an affordable home, that teachers are going to earn a decent salary, that people are going to notice in their wallets, that the economy is getting better. I would like to inform the Prime Minister that we are going to put forward proposals for this. I trust that, should they be adopted by a majority, the cabinet will implement them. And why not? We all want the best for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mr. Klaver. Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u14	The Cabinet is a missionary, but the Chamber is not. Last week, a motion was adopted which said that wages in health care should be raised. I may have missed it, but I have not yet seen a letter of amendment from the cabinet. We're discussing the Millions note right now, so I just wanted to ask when it's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u15	The letter with a response to that motion will land here any minute. I think that was finalised by the VWS Minister this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u16	I would like to touch on the questions that Mr Wilders has already asked. When Mr Rutte was questioned in the RTL debate by one of the parents in the supplement scandal, Kristie, she asked the Prime Minister: why don't you quit? That was six months ago. In the meantime, we've moved on a long time. We see that the economy is now doing well, but that people are not improving with this outgoing cabinet. We saw yesterday that the VVD has no plans for one of the biggest problems of our time, namely the housing crisis. The worst thing of all is that those same parents are still in trouble. In fact, my question to the outgoing Prime Minister is: when does he think it is enough? What's the deadline he thinks it should be fixed for the supplement parents? What does he think is the deadline on which he thinks he didn't succeed and he quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u17	If I did not succeed in the formation and the VVD was not part of the cabinet, I would become leader of the opposition, provided that the group wanted me in that role. I've said that before. We are always prepared to take responsibility, in the role of government, but also in the role of opposition. That's never in discussion. As long as it is considered appropriate that the VVD should be part of the new coalition, I will do my utmost to establish that coalition on behalf of the largest party in those talks. I shall of course return to all the other comments later on to the issue of the settlement of the child care allowance affair, as Mrs Marijnissen also asked questions about this. So I'd like to do that later if that's okay with her. I also note at this moment that the Netherlands is about the best performing economy in the western world. Today we have once again seen that growth in the second quarter has also been revised upwards by some 25%. The increase in purchasing power this year is enormous, also because wages are rising enormously this year. So I think the Netherlands is in good shape. However, there are major problems to be solved, such as, of course, Groningen and the childcare allowance affair, and there are still a lot of people and companies who still have to deal with the aftermath of corona, not only in the financial sense, but also in the psychological sense. That is also what we are going to talk about today. But the base in the Netherlands is very strong. In the end, the best thing you can achieve as a government is that you take care of two things, namely that the country is safe and that there is a strong economy. After all, if there is a strong economy, there is also the money to spend on necessary public services such as social security and public health, and then there are also the jobs for people to ultimately improve themselves and possibly get benefits out of work. I am proud that we have achieved this with 17 million people and that, coming out of that corona crisis, we have managed to be so strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u18	This is all over the shame, isn't it? The Prime Minister is standing here arguing how well the economy is doing, but my point is that it is particularly painful that people are not making progress because this cabinet is outgoing and the outgoing Prime Minister is not able to form a new cabinet either. Then who's gonna be of any use that the economy's doing okay? That is, of course, the question, apart from the fact that this outgoing cabinet has declared itself missionary in the very area of resolving that surcharge scandal. One of the affected parents asked Mr Rutte six months ago: why don't you quit? We simply have to note that we are six months ahead and that it has still been resolved. So I think my question is very simple. How much longer will you give yourself? I don't think you can hide behind other parties. I'm speaking to you. How long will you give yourself time to solve that before you say: I did not succeed; I quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u19	I think there are two questions contained in Mrs Marijnissen's question. One question concerns the settlement of the child care allowance affair, which I will come back to in detail later. The second question is, in my view, whether or not the formation is going to be detached. There may be a time when the formation is undergoing a development that the VVD is no longer part of a new cabinet. It could be. As long as we are part of the formation talks, I will do my utmost, together with our group, with Sophie Hermans and all my colleagues in the group, to promote everything in order to achieve a stable majority cabinet or, if necessary, on the basis of Mrs Hamer's report, to a minority cabinet which can at least count on fruitful cooperation in the Chamber. I'll do my utmost to do that, but I'm gonna say one thing. We, the VVD, are the biggest party, so I feel that particular responsibility. But we had 22% of the votes. This means that 78% of the responsibility lies with other parties. I am not running away from my responsibility; I am right that you should address me. I am the first person you should be with, but it is true that 78% of the Chamber consists of groups that have been formed because no VVD has been voted on. I also appeal to them, and I also know that I am counting on them. Everyone is doing their utmost, especially in the broad political context, to achieve stable new relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you. Mr Azarkan, then Mrs Ouwehand and then we start, although this is actually the start of the debate. Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u21	Why is the Prime Minister still here? A motion was passed last week that rejected government policy. The Prime Minister is also on that steering committee. Mrs. Bijleveld says goodbye, takes responsibility. Mrs Kaag takes responsibility. Why does Mr. Rutte remain seated? Why didn't he quit like the other two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u22	I very much regret that the motion of censure has left the two rulers, Sigrid Kaag and Ank Bijleveld, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence. Mrs Kaag, who had been to Afghanistan, Qatar, Pakistan and Turkey. Mrs Bijleveld, who is working day and night to solve the misery with the interpreters who still have to come here and all the other issues. They're gone now. I even saw one of the MPs react: why did they actually quit, which is not so convenient at all. No, that's not convenient either. We have now lost the two most involved people on the Afghanistan file. I think that's horrible. It's a motion of censure. I gave you my opinion, as early as 1 April, on how I look at motions of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u23	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u24	In any case, it is to the credit of the two colleagues, Mrs Bijleveld and Mrs Kaag, that they have taken that responsibility. They feel responsible. This Prime Minister will always remain in office. Nine months ago, the report on unprecedented injustice, under his responsibility. On April 1st, a motion of censure for lying. We've been six months. He's not gonna take his responsibilities. We're not discussing any new plans today. It's policy-poor, the country's stopped. When does Rutte realize he's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u25	I don't think there was a question in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u26	The question was: when does Prime Minister Rutte realize that he himself is the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u27	I'm doing my best to form a cabinet. I'm doing my best to get this cabinet to ensure there's a stable government. We're working really hard on that. Mr Azarkan has no reason to doubt my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u28	It is, of course, a pity that two rulers have resigned because of the pattern we have seen there, which is a Rutian pattern. You look away when a crisis is imminent. You're ignoring all the warnings. You're being arrogant with people trying to wake you up. Then there's this crisis, and then you try to pretend to the Chamber that you're doing everything you can to solve the crisis, "leave us alone, don't ask any critical questions," and then sneer at the Chamber. That motion of censure against the whole cabinet policy, against the people involved, was more than justified. If you get a motion like that on your pants, you just lost the trust of this Chamber. But I came up with the question about the new election. Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Wilders are right to ask questions about this. We have also heard Mr Voermans outline here that if you do not make a decision quickly and the formation is now stalled, you may not have new elections until May because in the meantime you cannot interfere with the municipal elections. Mrs Marijnissen's question is quite right: what is the deadline so that we can take a responsible decision or have elections by the end of December? Because if we don't do that in time, it doesn't go well and it doesn't look good with the formation, then it's only next May and then we need to re-form. We'll be out of a cabinet for another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u29	First of all, to my colleagues here in the government business. I find it uncomfortable to answer these questions because I am standing here as Prime Minister of a missionary cabinet. I'm gonna do it, of course. I'm not running away from that. I've always hated hat discussions. You are ultimately the person you are in all different jobs. But let me just say to colleagues here that this is not about government policy. Mrs Ouwehand's question concerns elections. That's actually a question to me as foreman, as the last chosen list leader we don't know any leaders at the VVD. I just answered that. We believe it is possible to form a stable cabinet, still. It's very slow. We feel very responsible for it, of course, first, as the largest party. But we think it may be possible, from that election result, to arrive at a stable cabinet. If that fails, there are two possibilities, namely that other parties are trying to form a stable cabinet, without the VVD. I am completely at peace with that, because opposition is as honorable as rule. Then we're prepared to go into opposition. It is also possible that elections will then be decided. That's not a decision the VVD can make or I can make last-chosen list-taker. That's a decision you'll take together as a Chamber, with a request to the government to hold elections. You really make me too powerful, Mrs Ouwehand, if you give me the authority to hold elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u30	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u31	No, I'm not. That's what makes the outgoing Prime Minister so that attention is distracted from the point we're making here. So we know that game. Stop it. The whole of the Netherlands sees it. What I asked for was the following in response to Mrs Marijnissen's question. I think we have to establish together that the Netherlands needs a government that we can trust. It doesn't look like that's gonna happen in the short term, because the lying and sneaking down of the people who want to rule is just gonna go on. Then the question is: what is responsible? In order to continue to try this with the risk that we will have to conclude that we have not succeeded and that we will not even be able to organise new elections in the short term, because those municipal elections are already in place? Then it's May. Or is it more responsible to be honest about whether it is actually up to these parties, with these foremen, to form a cabinet in which the Netherlands can have confidence? If the answer is no, we need to jointly write "Rutte" and Mr Rutte as leader of the VVD has one voice in that, with the rest of the Chamber, concluding that it is better for the Netherlands to write new elections, in time, so that we can form a government that we can trust. That is the question before us. I just want a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u32	To Mrs Ouwehand first the formal answer and then the substantive answer. The formal answer is that this Chamber has adopted a motion from the VVD, tabled by me, in which Johan Remkes was asked to take the next step in the cabinet formation with an entire mandate. That motion has reached a majority. Johan Remkes is busy. Then I come to the substantive answer. I'm confident this can work. I believe that in the coming weeks we can achieve the establishment of a stable cabinet. As long as I think so, I am putting all my strength into this, with other parties in that broad political centre, and perhaps others who are willing to contribute to it. It could be that it doesn't work. I've just outlined what the possibilities are. Then it may be that other parties will make an attempt without the VVD. I'm totally at peace with that. There may also be a decision to hold elections. But that's the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u33	Thank you. I suggest that the Prime Minister should now start answering the many questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr. Chairman. Then maybe it's good to do today's paperwork first. I want to do it on the basis of eight topics. Economics and finance are the first; there are also purchasing power, companies, budget. Then there is housing, as we rightly call it. Then climate and energy; that includes agriculture, nitrogen and nuclear energy. Then I'll be in health care. There are also the healthcare salaries, corona, the care itself and the elderly. Then security and justice, including undermining. Then there is the administrative culture; that is also where the terrible child care allowance affair and the questions about racism are to be dealt with. Then, 7, international developments and 8 other topics; these are actually three: defence, education and asylum seekers. So that's about the way I wanted to do it. I'll keep telling you where I'm in those chapters. But before I do, I would ask you to give me the opportunity to three... Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u35	Yes, an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u36	I wasn't trying to get here in advance, because I understand the Prime Minister has to start. But would he also like to pay some attention in the block to the state of affairs of the cabinet formation and what that means in relation to the budgets? It makes a big difference whether we have a cabinet in three weeks' time and now have to make changes here, or whether there is a cabinet in three months' time or even new elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u37	Yes. In any case, through Mr Omtzigt, I will ask the official what the deadlines are, so the last few moments that the Chamber can make major changes to the budget. I don't have that ready right now, so I'm gonna let you know. Then I can go into that later, and I think I will do so in Chapter 8. Then there are different scenarios: the cabinet formation is running and those forming parties themselves are submitting a change in the budget, or the cabinet formation is not running, and a majority of the parliament is created to prevent 2022 from being politically inadequate. I think that's the two flavors, but that's just an idea. Of course, a majority of the House determines how it is dealt with, so I'll ask it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u38	I am pleased that this will be part of the debate, because it will be an important question for the budgets that we are going to deal with here in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u39	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u40	The Prime Minister is now right to state that he can also speak as a negotiator. The problem is that the three main negotiators were all formally elected as MPs, namely Mr Hoekstra, Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag, but none of them is currently the spokesperson in the debate. That makes it a little difficult for the rest of our colleagues to ask questions about this. So I'm glad we can talk about that, and also about the other options, in the end. I also think that's the order. Because the Prime Minister is now saying that only if he becomes Prime Minister can there be a new cabinet with the VVD. That's an interesting option and one I can understand. Or the VVD is in opposition. However, another option has also been suggested by several people. This is an extra-parliamentary cabinet in which the VVD might participate, but with other people. So perhaps you can also prepare that option, because then we can ask that question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u41	I am not going to serve Mr Omtzigt on that, because he is now going to ask all kinds of questions that are part of a debate on the cabinet formation. He just asked a question which I can answer in a moment if I have received that more detailed, official information about the coincidence between the treatment of budgets and whether or not a missionary cabinet, against the backdrop of a successful or unsuccessful cabinet formation. We remember 2021. The Labour Party and the VVD did at that time, when they had not yet formed a cabinet, make a far-reaching amendment to the budget submitted to Prinsjesdag. That's a form you can think of when parties are forming. It may also be that this is not yet a success and that a majority of the House itself is making a greater change to the budget, of course in addition to what may already be happening today. That is what I want to talk about, but I will not go into any further questions about the cabinet formation, because that is really something for formation debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u43	If you do it completely technically, it is of course a separate formation debate, but on a number of occasions in the past, for example in the cabinet formations of 2010 and 2012, if I remember correctly, we deliberately postponed the General Political Discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u44	Yeah, and '17.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u45	And '17... because we knew a few weeks later, most likely a cabinet would take office. That is also wise, because if you know that there is a new cabinet a few weeks later, you want to debate with the new Prime Minister, even if that is the same as the old Prime Minister, with the new team, because he has to do it. It is therefore very logical that this Chamber should constantly ask us where we stand, because the government is asking for its permission to spend EUR 300 billion next year eight months after being decommissioned. Then it makes sense that we want that information here, so I will come back to that in the last piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u46	At least I managed Mr Omtzigt's expectations. Mr. Chairman. Then maybe three brief, introductory remarks. The first concerns the opening of the Holocaust Namur monument last Sunday. Jacques Grishaver has fought tirelessly for about 15 years to bring about that Namur monument. I refer to this because it was also the subject of yesterday's plenary debate in the Chamber. I don't have tears in my eyes very quickly, but that day happened anyway because the next thing hit me hugely. You were there yourself, Mr President. I suspect you had similar feelings at that meeting. Jacques Grishaver has addressed me a number of times in the past how important that Namur monument was. You understand intellectually how important that is. You understand that something like this has to come. There was no discussion about that either. At that time, you saw people of old age, but also younger people looking at family members, at grandparents or grandmothers. They may have been born far after the war, but they saw the names engraved in the stones, with the year of birth on them and how old they have become. The emotion that unleashed that has made a huge impression on me. We all felt that people got their names back and that they were back in Amsterdam for a while, but of course not in the way you would like. That emotion was deeply felt. I literally cried with several people who showed me: this is my grandfather, grandmother or cousin. It shows how huge the hand of history is, the enormous shadow that history casts over our lives, and how it still works today. It shows why it is so important that we have the total freedom of expression to invoke history in every way possible and to put it as a witness in debates, but also how incredibly sensitive it can be for people when that happens in an unthinking way. I wanted to start with that first, referring to part of yesterday's discussion. The second point, towards Mr Dassen, is a bit lighter. Yesterday he mentioned the example of Steendam in Groningen, where he had been. He told me that he was confronted with a presentation that was at the top: for Mark Rutte. I'm sorry, I didn't think of that. But the story about Steendam is fantastic. It shows that a small community of, I thought, 200 houses... I am not going to repeat what Mr Dassen said yesterday, but it shows the enormous resilience in our country and the ability of Dutch people to organise themselves. That runs right through the three classical political movements. It is very much in line with Mr Heerma's idea of cooperation, which was eloquent and allure laid down here last year. But it is also in line with the belief in liberal circles that people ultimately want to take responsibility for large parts of their own lives. Finally, it is also very much in line with social democracy, because solidarity is very strong in the community, the feeling that you are taking people with you and not abandoning them. I thought that was a wonderful example. As a third introductory point, I would like to say something to Mr Segers. He touched me with his speech about the two mountains. That reminded me of a book I got from Lodewijk Asscher, The Meritocracy Trap by Daniel Markovits. That book changed my mind, too. Of course, this applies not only to the booklet, but also to the discussions that have been going on for a long time. I have always been convinced, also as a liberal, that we can guarantee the starting position, with good education and a good social security system, but that the outcome of the social race is ultimately up to people themselves. What was decided so beautifully in yesterday's speech by Mr Segers and which also comes back so well in this beautiful book, is what could go wrong, namely a completely overworked elite who is only working and making money, and who in no way has more time for other things than the job. On the other hand, there is a large group of people who would like to join the elite, but who do not get that chance because they are being opposed. Somehow the path to success isn't there for them. That goes far beyond just good education, but it starts with good education. When I heard D66 talk about the opportunity crisis in the campaign, I always translated it as follows: you can offer the opportunity, but the crisis is that that opportunity cannot be taken by everyone. I'm making that point for another reason. The issues that lie ahead are extremely complex. There is a risk if you reason from your own political ideology. Mrs Hermans described this beautifully: with raised shoulders and arms on top of each other say 'you are wrongly attacking the market forces in health care'. We all do that, especially me. Mrs Hermans reminded me of a somewhat less subtle statement about windmills. Thanks for reminding me. It shows how important it is to realise that the issues we discuss are extremely complex and that there are a lot of facets to them. That's what makes our profession so beautiful, I guess. I would like to say that for me, and in my view, we are all faithful to our own principles, to carefully analyse the problem and not take the short turn and then realize that we are making choices in scarcity, because spending more also means: where does that money come from? Of course, there are all kinds of different political views about this. Very important are also: listen to each other and look at each other. That was the other element in Mr Segers' speech. Sometimes it is also about admitting mistakes; that is a statement by Tony Blair which I would like to repeat here at the beginning of the debate. He said in his last speech to the Congress of the Labour Party in England in 2006 that the special thing is that people sometimes forgive a wrong decision. People don't forgive if we don't make decisions. I believe that there are two red threads in yesterday's speeches, at least for me, and that is why I shall begin with these reflections. One common thread is the incredible complexity of some issues that are not solved with one or two instruments or answers, such as the housing market and other things we were talking about yesterday. The second is the urgency to go back to the interruptions of just now that the cabinet formation is successfully completed, so that the necessary decisions can also be taken. This is what I wanted to say as an introduction. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to topic 1: economics and finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u47	There is a question from Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u48	It's nice to hear Prime Minister Steendam quote one more time. I also used it in my speech, of course, to point out that people are losing confidence in institutions and are therefore going to do it themselves. So it's not just nice that the people there pick up the glove and get to work. It is also an appeal to ensure that politics dares to turn and lead again. I look forward to the Prime Minister's reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u49	I very much agree with that, absolutely. Of course, it's not like when the government fails, we say it's so beautiful that people do it all by themselves. It shows that people themselves are capable of a lot, but I fully agree with Mr Dassen: that should not be a reaction to a government that does not carry out its own core tasks properly. He's absolutely right about that. Mr. Chairman. From these somewhat broader reflections to the whole practical issues of all the questions that have been asked. I come immediately to the question of the purchasing power of families and what we are doing there. I am not going to read out all the letters that have been sent about this; I do not think we have time for that either today, but I think you can see in the documents that we have tried to take a number of measures in the decision-making process in August to mitigate the effects of the sum of everything we do and how it will ultimately work out in groups. This has also been done in line with the agreements in force during this cabinet period. For example, we have also looked at single-wagers, who threatened to drop too much. Liberal parties might say: that's a bit the point, isn't it? Not that they go down, but that you see there a certain effect of phasing out the transferable tax rebate. But, of course, in the balance sheet of this coalition, with the Christian Union and also the CDA, we have again tried to limit that effect as much as possible. You also see how that's covered. I do not think that I need to explain this entirely, but this will have an impact on families with children and on pensioners, and it is partly financed by the company reservation, the 1.8 billion. Of these, some 230 million have been used in this budget for that more balanced purchasing power picture. That is the answer to the question of purchasing power repair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u50	I see a question from Mr Klaver, then from Mr Wilders and then from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u51	First of all, thank you: the letter on healthcare salaries is in. So it came extremely quickly. That shows how relevant it is that that letter is now there. I'm very happy. It's good news: salaries in health care are going up. But a wish from the Chamber is not being fulfilled. The Chamber has adopted a motion saying: increase healthcare salaries and pay it out of the increase in corporation tax. The Cabinet doesn't do that. Instead of having large companies pay for this salary increase, every Dutchman will pay for it because the healthcare premium increases €13 per month. That wasn't what the Chamber requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u52	A year. It also has to do with the system. If you look at the healthcare salaries, Mr De Jonge is going to be so silent, but with gestures correcting when I say something wrong, you can see that a little more than half is going through health insurance. In sickness insurance, the system is based on the premium and the income-dependent contribution of the companies. It requires a legislative change if you would like to add an external source of funding to that. In addition, there is a whole piece that is not covered by the Health Insurance Act. That piece must indeed be financed. The letter says that we are currently looking at how we are going to do this, also in the light of today's debate. It says literally: "This coverage is determined according to the various requirements and coverage options." They also come out during this APB. It is therefore a question of expenditure on salaries within the social domain and long-term care, as well as the automatic increase in the healthcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u53	This is total bullshit. You can explain systemically in the hope that the Chamber will think: what is this about? But you can just increase the state's contribution. That also fits perfectly in the system. You can choose to just do this through corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u54	We think that's really against the law. You can't do the Zvw part. For the non-Zvw part you can offer all kinds of cover. But for the Zvw part, that is, the part that runs through the Health Insurance Act, there is always a balance between you and myself through the care premium and the companies through the income-dependent contribution. It accounts for about 40% of the total of this salary increase. I thought it was a little more than half, but it's a little less than half. A little more than half of it is about salaries outside the Social Security Fund and that part must by definition be covered externally, because there is no other cover for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u55	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u56	These are ultimately rules that the government, the government, makes itself. You can take care of that yourself. You can make other arrangements for that yourself. It may be too late for this year. It may be an argument that you won't get it settled this autumn, but it's nonsense to say that we can't organize that. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is this: if the Chamber can show that you can finance it differently, will the Prime Minister meet the wishes of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u57	Again, we don't think that's possible, so that's when it stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u58	I'm actually wondering who represents the Prime Minister. The Dutch certainly don't, because of course this can't be the case. I am really very angry that you are simply ignoring the purchasing power of the Dutch. I've got it straightened out, Madam President. Let's see what has happened since the Prime Minister became Prime Minister in 2010 through the forecasts for next year. It is therefore twelve years, from 2010 to 2022. In that period the Netherlands had 18.3% of economic growth and a 4.6% increase in purchasing power, added up and deducted. That means that people have been lagging behind economic growth for as long as you rule. Even now, you are performing the weather to spend 7 billion on climate. You have given 45 billion of Dutch euros to all kinds of European countries to survive the corona crisis. They're all gonna do nice things with our money. You spend 4 or 5 billion a year on development aid. And what do our people get now? Today is again in the newspaper: great energy poverty; rent hardly to pay. Why? What about pensions? What does the Prime Minister do for pensioners? For years, people with pensions have not had an index. Look at all those billions for climate, for Europe and for Africa. Is it too much to ask, now that things are going well economically and where we have about 4% economic growth this year and next year, to give at least part of it to people's purchasing power? You represent the Dutch electorate and not those in Europe or Africa. And you are not just giving money for the climate to please Mrs Kaag, who is not here today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u59	Mr Wilders seems to forget about this and he should know, because who walked away in 2012 in the middle of a crisis? We are coming out of a serious crisis. This was a very serious crisis, one of the biggest post-war economic crises that this country had, similar to the one in the 1980s during the Lubbers Cabinets. That is the crisis of 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 that continued until 2015 and even 2016. That crisis was so serious that our unemployment threatened to go to 10%. Then what is the best thing you can do, given your responsibility as a custodian of this country? That's a strong economy building. We have done so with 17 million Dutch. We have built a strong economy, which means that we currently have a record number of people at work. And what's the best improvement? That's someone who keeps his job and someone who's on welfare and wants to get started can find a job. That happened on a large scale. In the past, sorry, this year, despite the corona crisis, there has been a very significant increase in purchasing power, especially due to rising wages, so that is very good news. Next year that will indeed be much more modest. We have a very small increase in purchasing power. I think that is inevitable, even if you see the enormous investments we have all made as taxpayers in the economy to keep the country alive. But the most important thing is that there will also be a record number of jobs next year. This is still the best improvement for people: from benefits at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u60	Madam President, I simply cannot get an answer to my question. I really hope that doesn't happen all day, that the Prime Minister just keeps a whirl and doesn't answer my questions. What do those elders I mentioned have to do with a job? You'll only be 78 years old, not see your pension indexed and hear Rutte say, "The best thing is finding a job from a benefit." There are millions of elderly people in the Netherlands whose pension is not indexed. The best thing about getting a job is getting a job. What are you going to do for those older people who haven't had a pension index for years? What good is it if you have a family, earning somewhere between minimum wage and modal and in a minute your energy bill and your rent can't pay anymore? What good is this job story to them? Those are people who are already working! They already have a job. Their partner often also works half-time, but they don't even come together for a modal income. That's the backbone of Dutch society, Mr. Rutte. And you don't give them anything. My question was: who are you representing? Why 7 billion for climate? Why 45 billion for Europe? Why 4 or 5 billion for Africa every year, when our own elderly people, our hard-working people, our people who are on welfare without their debt, are not getting anything? Answer that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u61	Control is not or-or-or, but is almost always en-and-and-and. It is both to ensure that after the corona crisis countries in southern Europe, which we export very much and which are of great importance to our economy and to the stability of the euro, can also emerge from the crisis, but in a way that they can do it themselves next time, because they are now finally implementing those necessary reforms in those countries. It is also to ensure that we support countries outside Europe that are very bad for them as well as possible in their development. That's in our best interest, too. It is in our interest to ensure that there is stability in the world. So if you don't do it from a humanitarian point of view, at least do it for our security and our stability. I think you should do it for both reasons, but if I can't seduce Mr Wilders for the first reason, maybe I can seduce him for the second reason. Then the pensioners. You can see that next year's AOW benefit is slightly increasing. This means that pensioners are making some progress without or with a low supplementary pension, because the AOW benefit is rising. In addition, there is a problem with the pension indexing. It simply lags behind most of the funds in inflation. The pensions in the second pillar - we have often had that discussion - are a responsibility of the social partners, employers and workers. With the new Pension Act and the new pension system, we are achieving much more stability in fluctuations depending on the levels of coverage of pension rates and their investment income, so that in the future there will be more predictability. But if pension funds themselves cannot index as a result of falling behind inflation in terms of indexation and we would compensate for that, we are in the process of drawing that second pension pillar to the State. I really don't think we should do that. That's not the point. I don't think anyone wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u62	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u63	It's all not true. You can, you can, adjust the accounting rate that the pension funds must apply tomorrow. As a cabinet, you can do that. A lot of people who are now watching television and hearing Rutte say that we are making progress are not making any progress or are barely making any progress. Everything's getting more expensive. Inflation is relatively high. And those people haven't had a pension index for a year or two, but sometimes they haven't had a pension index for ten years or more. You can change that tomorrow. You can change that tomorrow by adjusting the interest rate. Then you do not come to the second pillar and then you make sure that pensions can be indexed. I'm asking you to do that. And finally, the rest of the purchasing power. It's all a nice story, that we have to help Europe and be social, but you're spending EUR 200 million on purchasing power repair in the Netherlands, for our own people, and you're giving EUR 45 billion to EUR 45 billion: that's 250 times more than 200 million to European countries, like Italy, where they still have to learn to pay taxes. That's what we're gonna do for them now. 45 billion. You're giving the money to Africa. You give the money to climate. Our own people are gonna let you down. That is not what a prime minister, who stands for the Dutch, should do. You are there for everyone, but not for the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u64	Mr Wilders gets rhetorical sums mixed up here that are structural and one-off. That's a little lame. He knows that, too. I know that he, with his background in the VVD, knows everything about the budget and that he himself knows that this was nonsense. Then it's content. Firstly, for our exports and jobs, it is very important that the euro and also southern Europe are stable, but in such a way that next time they can do their own thing. Two: I said what I said about Africa and development cooperation, both humanitarian and stability. And climate, that has two reasons, not only to prevent floods in Wilders' loved Limburg in the future, but also because we know that it will bring us a lot of future growth and jobs if we solve this problem of the climate massively. So if you're not already doing it because you're afraid of global warming, I'm afraid of that, but Mr. Wilders might not be doing it because of the huge innovation possibilities. I predict that by 2030 of the 10 million jobs in the Netherlands by then, there will be 1 to 2 million in these sectors, with all new businesses, new activities and new innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u65	Mrs Ploumen, PvdA, and then Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u66	I note that this outgoing cabinet is there for the multinationals and not for the people. Care salaries are increased, and this is done by increasing the health premium of people who had nothing to expect from this cabinet anyway. The positive economic developments the Prime Minister is talking about do not end up in those people's pockets. That is one thing: the outgoing cabinet chooses multinationals, not people. Two: Mrs Marijnissen's and Mr Segers' motions are not being carried out either. It indicates that more salary for care workers is financed by an increase in the Vpb. The Chamber voted in favour of that. In short, the Prime Minister's promise at the beginning of this debate that amendments and motions would be carried out if they were adopted will actually be cancelled immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u67	A few things. I'll start with the burden development. The companies have a cumulative burden increase of 6.2 billion over this period. The citizens, you and I, the Dutch, have a tax relief of 3.9 billion. So it is really nonsense that this cabinet of CDA, D66, ChristenUnion and VVD would have said: we are going to spare the companies and let the Dutch pay the bill. 6.2 billion increase in the burden on businesses and a reduction in the burden on people in the country of 3.9 billion: these are the figures for this whole cabinet period. So it's just really not true what Mrs Ploumen just said about that. Two: for low-income people, of course, the care allowance applies. It largely or almost completely compensates for the rising care premium. The following point is also made. For the non-Zorgverzekeringswetdeel, the increasing healthcare salary costs that are not paid under the Zorgverzekeringswet, you can talk to each other about coverage. That's what the letter says. We need to talk more about this, also in the light of today's debate. But just under half of them are covered by the Health Insurance Act. The letter states very precisely that it is simply not possible, that it does not fit with the financing system to cover expenditure directly from, for example, the Vpb, or from anywhere. That's just got to come from that bit. This is therefore always partly the result of the premium once again; for low incomes, this is compensated by the health care allowance and partly by the income-dependent contribution through the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u68	I notice that people in their wallets do not notice economic growth. In fact, they are now receiving an increase in the health premium of €13 from this cabinet. Two: the system is established by this Chamber and we can also amend it. The motion explicitly states: make sure that the increase in healthcare salaries is financed by an increase in the Vpb. That is what the motion says, that is what is being asked, and that is the intention. It's not supposed to make people worse and make companies better. The cabinet simply refuses to increase the tax on companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u69	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ploumen must stick to the facts, because that is really a nonsense. Business costs are rising by 6.2 billion this period and yours and mine as the Dutch are falling by 3.9 billion. So it's not true that this cabinet is taking care of the companies. There are heavy burdens. We must pay attention to this, and I say this not on the basis of my political conviction, but as Prime Minister of all the Dutch people, we are also ensuring that business can continue to generate jobs in the future. You can't go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and That's what I'm saying in a general sense. Now back to this issue, because I do not think that is the case. In this issue itself, for just over half the Chamber can make choices where it wants to cover it. That is the piece that has to do with the social domain, the long-term care and so on. There you can indeed look at other coverages, but when it comes to the part that is paid through our health insurance, there is a system. And we've all established it, and we can't just change it here all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u70	Mrs Marijnissen, SP, then Mr Eerdmans, Mr Segers and then Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u71	This is bullshit. It's super good news, 675 million to the healthcare pay; it's very necessary and we can't wait another day. So that's good news and as far as the SP is concerned, it's only a first step. We show in our counter-proposals that more is needed and more can be done. But the fact is that this Chamber has indeed said that we want to pay that out of increasing the tax on profits for large companies. The outgoing Prime Minister makes it a technical story of why that couldn't be done, and that is bullshit. If you can't do it by law, you can change the law. We have seen at our own risk in this Chamber that this can be done within a day. If you want to do it outside the law, you can do it with a so-called labour market allowance. Then you could do it for this year and then you can arrange it for a long period of time. That is all technique, but the point is that this outgoing cabinet does not carry out what this Chamber wants, namely those healthcare salaries up. That is very much needed and good news that this is going to happen. However, this Chamber has indeed stated that increasing that income tax is the way we want to pay it. I would really like to ask you once again to meet the wishes of this Chamber as a outgoing cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u72	I have now explained three times that we have a different view on what can and cannot be done under the Health Insurance Act. We believe that this cannot be done within this funding system. So I can keep repeating that but then the live broadcast is probably less and less watched.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u73	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u74	What a dedain this is! Come on. I'd like to explain that I think it's possible, but the outgoing Prime Minister doesn't go into that. He's hiding behind a law that I'm saying you could modify. That can be done quickly and if it can't be done quickly enough, you can now arrange it once via an allowance and then we'll arrange it next year and then we'll amend that law. If that's what you want. But the point is, of course, here, and that is the political debate that the VVD is the party in this Chamber that simply doesn't want to get that tax on profits. There is even a majority here in the House of Representatives to increase that income tax to make sure that large companies with whom things are going well and who make a lot of profit do not pay a fair share to this society. There is a large political majority in favour of this. Last week it was decided: salaries in health care must be raised and we want to pay for that. But it's just the VVD... Speaking of sacred houses, we heard yesterday in these General Reviews Mrs Hermans, the group chairman of the VVD, speak about the sacred houses of the VVD. Well, I do remember one, and that's the income tax. It seems as if the VVD thinks that this income tax is something of theirs, that it cannot be reached, even if democracy decides that we want to use it to increase healthcare salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u75	First of all, for that piece that doesn't go through the Health Insurance Act. In addition, as a Chamber and Cabinet you simply have the opportunity to look at coverage. That could be anything: Vpb or other things. That's not where the problem is. The problem lies in the part that runs through the Health Insurance Act. In addition, the system is that the expenditure must be paid from the premium income and from the income-dependent contribution. That's how the law's been laid down. That's just what you can't just deviate from. There are also reasons why the balance sheet has ever chosen to do so. I think it was in 2006 that that law was made with then Minister of Health Hoogervorst. There are reasons why that division is in there. There are all kinds of issues behind this, including European law, why you choose that distribution between citizens and companies and why a part of it is through the income-dependent contribution and part through the contribution income. That would indeed require legislative changes, but then there are also questions that we have to consider more closely with each other, about the risks of such changes, about the coherence between this system and other issues, including in the European sense. That's nothing we can just decide here. That cover, that's just the way it is. That's what I'm telling the Chamber. Mrs Marijnissen is my boss when it comes to implementation, she is absolutely right. But in the event of legislative changes, we are at eye level and we must do it together. I would point out that we really have to look at the advantages and disadvantages of this change of law and the risks we run if you were to do so. But for a little more than half the total cost of this wage increase, it is just possible to choose a cover that the Chamber wants, in consultation with the Cabinet, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u76	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u77	Mr President, it is getting more and more colourful. So first the outgoing Prime Minister says: it can't be, it has to be like this, so it will be like this. And now he says: yes, it can be done, but I don't want it, because then the law needs to be changed and I don't want it. I'm sorry, but the House of Representatives has given a ruling on this. I said that I do not think we need to run into technology now and not read again what has been written down and prepared for this. I've heard all that, but if you can't do it through law, you can change the law, you can have a discussion about it. Then you could now, for this year, arrange it once; then you can adjust the law and arrange it structurally for the coming years. If you wanted to. So that is exactly the point here, I think. The VVD doesn't want it, because that income tax is sacred. We can't get that tax on profits. It just can't be. There's just a very clear statement from this Chamber. We want to raise healthcare salaries and we think it is a good idea to have large companies, once again, with whom things are going well, contribute a little more, because they have been contributing less and less year by year under the VVD. I want the Prime Minister to be honest and that he doesn't run into technology, but he doesn't say he can't. It's possible, but the VVD doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u78	I said, "If you change the law, of course, you can always do that." That is what I have just said; I did not say that there is no change in the law; I said that there are a number of complex issues that you have to deal with when you change the law. In other words, the relationship between a private law system and a public law system and how it relates to European legislation. So it's not that easy to change that. I would like to warn Mrs Marijnissen, because she gives the impression that this can be done with a stroke of pens. We don't think that's true. Secondly, about these companies. Then I am not talking about the cover proposals that lie here, because that is another matter that we then have to discuss with each other. But she too has to face the fact that companies' burdens have increased by more than 6 billion in recent years and that they have fallen by nearly 4 billion. So apart from the coverage here, we just have to get out of it, in general the rhetoric that the companies have been spared by this cabinet is simply not true. There is a 10 billion gap between the increase in the burden of businesses and the reduction in the burden of people. So there are limits to that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u79	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans, Mr Segers, Mrs Den Haan, Mr Klaver and then to Mr Omtzigt. First of all, Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say something to the Minister for Finance, Mr Hoekstra, who arrived here with his briefcase on Prince's Day and indeed said: we are keeping purchasing power at zero. It seems that the Prime Minister has just underlined these words. Purchasing power remains at zero. How can it be, if you look at purchasing power; that is what you can pay, that is the idea that you think at the end of the month: I have some money left and that doesn't get any less. How come we've been seeing that energy bill rising over the last few days and it's commuting, we're going to pay a lot more for energy. Fuel prices have gone up, rents have gone up. Sorry, if I drive my shopping cart, I think all Dutch people recognize this, those messages have just become more expensive. And why? Because VAT has been increased; that is one of the reasons, that has been done by this cabinet. In short, I do not even take into account the burdens imposed by the local authorities. Ozb, waste tax, sewer tax, you name it. How can it be that zero remains, that we say: it will remain about that, while everyone in the Netherlands feels: I have to spend more and more, I have more and more trouble doing those shopping, I have to do less shopping, because I don't have the money anymore? How does the Prime Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u81	This has to do with the system of purchasing power plates. I believe that Mr Eerdmans also knows that there is no country in the world outside the Netherlands that does so in detail. We now also have point clouds. But in that purchasing power system it works so that we are seeing a few developments right now. On the one hand, wages are rising due to labour shortages. There are so many vacancies and so few people who can apply. That is simply a positive element in purchasing power development. You can see that in the numbers. On the other hand, Mr. Eerdmans's development here is the rise in prices. This, of course, has a negative impact on purchasing power. This ultimately leads to what is called positive real wage growth. It's about plus 0.04%. These purchasing power figures are then corrected for inflation. The increase in the nominal care premium is also taken into account. For low incomes there is, of course, a higher care allowance. For example, rising energy prices can be seen again through the consumer price index, so they also come back through inflation rates. Those rising salaries, rising inflation and rising prices all go into a tombola and then you finally see that something is left of it. I thought that was on average about 0.1% for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u82	Something's gonna go wrong in that tombola. I think you are right to say that expenditure is increasing. We all feel that. But there's nothing against it, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u83	Rising wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u84	Rising wages? Is that what you're gonna tell the people who see that in their accounts? My purchasing power bill is very simple. That's just my electronic bank statement from ABN AMRO. Then I see my own purchasing power picture. Then I see what's left of me, where my fixed burdens go, where my direct burdens go and what my messages are. Every Dutchman can see that. Everyone who looks now thinks: that's a nice story, Mr. Rutte, about the purchasing power picture, but I can see for myself that I have less left. It's good to acknowledge that. Today, TNO simply warned against energy poverty. Those are our neighbors here, so we can check it out. It's very simple. By increasing energy prices and gas prices, people are simply not going to make it. You'll find me on the right. This is something we often hear on the left. That is a very serious problem, but I would just like to bring it up. This is really gonna kill people. I told you last night, too. So the question to the Prime Minister is: do you see this perspective? I don't think we're gonna stay on zero right now. People go down. But the perspective of the future is even more worrying. This is not only true of low incomes. I think that's going to apply to everyone. I would like to have your reflection on that, because we have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u85	First of all, I'm going into the system of purchasing power plates. That's the way we're supposed to meet. There it is indeed true that people see their salary increase. There is a very substantial, even historically relatively high, increase in salaries this year. They're finally starting to grow. That's good news in itself. In recent years too, you have seen a considerable increase in wages, but that is the opposite of what I have just mentioned. This ultimately leads to a kind of average of just above zero for purchasing power increases. Mr Eerdmans asks: isn't that all very theoretical? Is there such a person who has a 0.1% increase in purchasing power at all? No, there's no such person. That is why I myself am an explained opponent of purchasing power cards. I really think that's the biggest possible nonsense. But we have them, and I haven't gotten them out in 11 years. So I'm gonna keep explaining that system. Then I'll get to the power bill. It's made up of all kinds of elements. Mrs Hermans of the VVD also asked about it. You can now see an increase in delivery rates. Those are the commercial prices for energy. They're going up. These are determined by the market. The cabinet has no influence on that. We then take this increase in energy prices along with the whole purchasing power picture. I just said that. The energy bill is one of the components of the pluses and minuses. There's something we can do. We can do something about that part of the energy tax. We did something there, too. We've processed a tax reduction of the energy tax. As a result, small energy users are relatively spared. This is also in line with what we agreed in the climate agreement in 2019. But that energy bill is increasing, of course, on balance. But that's also in the whole purchasing power picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u86	Now Mr Rutte's speech is a bit off the gooseboard. His whole speech is about purchasing power cards. He contradicts me when I say: I don't feel it; I think a lot of people see that we have less to spend. Now you say in your speech: yes, but I don't have anything to do with purchasing power; I don't really believe in that at all. Mr. Koolmees is still whispering to you what the latest messages are. But you say: I would prefer them so... So what is the basis of your story? Why do we have to trust people to spend more? What is the basis of this when you say 0.1%; no one gets 0.1%? It is indeed the laws of The Hague, of officials who calculate them. You're saying it's not really good for me. In short, it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u87	It does make sense. My objection to purchasing power plates is that you think you can describe very detailed what is happening at Mr. Eerdman's home or at Mr. Rutte's home, but that is, of course, nonsense. It is true that you can look at the macro figures and see that there is a very broad wage increase in the Netherlands. That's a big one. That's very good for people. At the same time, you can see that prices are rising and you can see the effects of the energy bill. For example, we have compensated for an increase in the care premium for the lowest incomes through the care allowance. So you can definitely look at those elements. I think that's wise. That's policy making with each other. Only, we translate that into those purchasing power cards in the Netherlands. But again, that is an N=1 view for yours truly, because I notice in politics that there is a huge love for purchasing power cards. At least, I've seen this in the 11 years since I did this and I've seen it in the two years I was Secretary of State for Social Affairs. I've given up the fight. We continue with the purchasing power picture, but much more interesting than the purchasing power picture, I personally find the major developments surrounding the question of whether there is a substantial increase in wages or not, what is the situation with inflation and rising prices and what is the state of the energy bill? This gives an idea of whether it is a bit fair distributed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u88	First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for his fine introduction and his fine contemplative words about the meritocracy. We're gonna talk about education one more time. But I think it is very nice that he is also fed on the social democratic side and on the Christian-social side, and that he is also being corrected in that respect. I liked that opening. We're gonna keep having that conversation. Then to purchasing power. First of all, about care salaries. More motions have been tabled. More motions have been adopted, and the cabinet said that we are not going to do so. I think it's good news that the cabinet says we're gonna do this. In that sense, the glass is really more than half full for me. That's the first thing. Then the cabinet says: we are going to look at the system; we have to deal with it. I understand Mr Marijnissen's reaction. We filed a motion together. At least that's what our colleagues Hijink and Bikker did. I understand the reaction, but when the cabinet says that I read that in the letter "just give us the opportunity in the multitude of things to come here with a good cover," I will wait for that quietly. More specifically, about energy poverty. That is the point that Mr Eerdmans is right to raise. This morning, that investigation came out. More than 0.5 million people have energy poverty. Think of isolation that is not in order and people with an energy bill that is going to rise. This really is a problem that I would like to bring to the attention of the cabinet. My question is, what are we going to do about this? I agree with the Prime Minister that these purchasing power figures are a point cloud, that they are statistics. But these are real people with real bills.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u89	Sure. I think we really need to analyse that report, which is just out, carefully. If you look at it in the first instance through your eye hairs, you can see that it has very strong to do with houses that partly heat in front of the street because there is just too little insulation. You can see in the government's climate plans that we are doing a lot more for houses that may not be worth a lot but which it is important that the residents live in a house that is well ventilated and can be heated. I mean, they're not heating up for the street, they're warming up for themselves. There's a lot of road leaks. You can see that. Look at people living in a house with a very modest income. I thought Pekela was mentioned, with a large percentage of people with a very low income, but also think of other places in the Netherlands. Then you can see that TNO says: there is danger of energy poverty. That is not, as far as I have now looked through my eye hairs in the report, directly primarily linked to rising energy prices alone, but above all to the fact that, in the combination of rising energy prices and a lack of isolation, these people have lost so much money on their energy bills. Here we hit two birds with one stone. If we can better isolate those houses, there's all kinds of plans for.............................................................................................................................................................................. That does not change the fact that we must continue to look at energy prices themselves. Then together we have the key to energy taxation. But, of course, there are also politically sensitive consequences if you turn on them endlessly. In addition, there is the broader purchasing power picture. I think we really have that to see together. I also agree with Mr Segers that, over the next few weeks and months, we may need to update the Social Affairs budget, just to see how these prices are developing and what the picture is. Then we may also have an analysis of the TNO report. My feeling is that the report affects climate policy more than per se the purchasing power story. But again, I haven't really been able to study it, just the first media reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u90	But it has everything to do with purchasing power. It has everything to do with what people end up with in their wallets. If we can now foresee that that energy bill is really going to rise, then it's all hands on deck. Then we must certainly help those who are barely able to make ends meet, who are really in danger of falling over the edge. Then isolation is indeed a very important one, so the cabinet has also earmarked money for it. Together with GroenLinks and the CDA, we have put on the table a plan to work on this; we make all kinds of proposals for this. So that's what we can do. But there's also a part of that energy bill that directly affects the government. There are energy prices from the market, but there is also a storage. If we think about purchasing power and spending in the Chamber with the cabinet today, then my plea would be: let us also look at the part that we can influence. If we want to do something, let us do it for these people, because there is a real threat of something very heavy hanging over their heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u91	I think that we should simply follow this very closely, indeed also the relationship with the issue of sustainability. Once again, I can imagine that the Social Affairs budget should almost literally be the first thermometer moment to see how things stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u92	Finally. Yesterday we talked to Mrs Hermans about what these wishes are and where we could work together. Then this is also a concern that several spokesmen have now put on the table and which I would like to underline, especially with TNO's warning: it is really hundreds of thousands of people who can hardly tie their ends together and we can indeed influence some of the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u93	So that's what's at the point of isolation, but it's also in the energy bill itself. But I can imagine that that will come back together as the various motions and proposals harden a little more over the course of the day and we're going to look at that. But apart from that, I think it is good to look at this towards the Social Affairs budget again. So I think it is and-and when it comes to what Mr Segers says and the Social Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u94	There is an interruption by Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group. Then Mr Klaver and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u95	I would like to come back to Mr Wilders' comment on the large group of elderly people. That is where we see a lot of complex problems. In the Millions note, there is little about the group of older people. Today, we have seen the CNV's study indicating that a large group of older people still cannot find a job even in the cramped sectors because of their age. The day before yesterday, we had the report of the elderly organisations, in which they also indicate that the young seniors are starting to retire with financial poverty. I also agree with you on this purchasing power system, but we also see that pensioners have been dangling at the bottom of the queue over the past 15 years when it comes to purchasing power progress. I would really like to know from you, also because there is really nothing left in the Millions note, what you are going to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u96	This is, of course, a very relevant subject. It affects purchasing power, but I said something about that. I would like to be very reluctant about the wild suggestion of messing with the arithmetic rate, because that has...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u97	You didn't hear me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u98	No, I don't. I know, but I hadn't answered that part of Wilders' questions yet. That is really risky, because then you threaten to damage solidarity between generations if you are not careful. But I also agree with Mrs Den Haan; perhaps we should have said more about that. I think that her point is also a sign that we could have included more text on it. But that also affects labour market issues, in relation to the younger elderly who are still active in the labour market. In the Millions note, the interdepartmental policy research on care for the elderly has been announced. This will take advantage of all existing reports. That's about the part of care for the elderly itself. There is also, of course, the question of demographic development. I think we should also look at this with each other, also in relation to the labour market. If we reach the formation at any time, I hope... I hope to be present, but even if I am not, I assume that this formation will also concern the labour market itself and the proposals made by Borstlap. Then, of course, these kinds of issues will also be raised: how do you ensure that people of a somewhat older age get back to work? In addition, I always think: if you are an employer, do so, because such a person is no longer going to take root with you; he is gone after a few years and you bring in someone with a huge bucket of experience. So betting on young people, of which there are fewer and fewer, isn't very smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u99	I am glad that you say that, but I would like a commitment from you that this will be taken into account, including in a government agreement. I didn't manage to get that on paper with the informers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u100	Yes, but I can only do that as chairman... as my party's last-chosen list leader: that I think it should be given a place. But I can't promise that on behalf of the Demissionary Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u101	I understand that, but I'm already very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u102	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Klaver, then to Mr Omtzigt, then to Mrs Ploumen and then to Mrs Marijnissen. I suggest we suspend for a very short time. After that, I think we'll move on to the people's housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u103	I would prefer to place all the problems of the cabinet on Mr Koolmees' plate. But if we really want to do something about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u104	I've been doing that for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u105	Sure. If we really want to do something about energy poverty, we need to get to the Tax Plan, but we'll get to that later. I would like to return to a very serious point, and that is the motion that the Chamber has adopted. Then we don't talk about what can be done on the Zvw-part, because then we end up in a wells-nietes. I want to talk about the other 60%. The cabinet writes about this: we are going to use the Chamber to see how we are going to pay for it. Well, I have news for you. The Chamber has already seen that. A motion has been adopted, and there is not a word of Spanish in this: to find budgetary cover in an increase in corporation tax. This cabinet does not do that, not even on the part no discussion about is that it can. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u106	Because it seems sensible to us to look at this in the broader context of this debate. There was, of course, a lot of talk yesterday about budgetary adjustments that may have to be made in a variety of areas. I am not going to reflect on that now, because there are no concrete proposals, other than a lot of thoughts I heard yesterday. I am not going to respond until there are motions or amendments. In that light, I think it would be wise to weigh that up again in the course of this day or perhaps even in the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u107	I really can't let the Chamber accept this. There's a Demissionary Prime Minister here. The Chamber is asking for corporate tax to be increased. He's actually telling the House of Representatives, and I think that's almost a shock: well, maybe it's not very sensible; we need to see it in a broader consideration. This broader consideration has been made by the House of Representatives. That's what we're gonna do. That is why I now want the Prime Minister's undertaking that there will be a new letter and an adjustment, in which he indicates that corporate tax is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u108	In the end, of course, that is what the Chamber is about, but I think it is wise, in the light of the debate that is taking place here, to see today and perhaps in the coming days what the different views on this matter are. So there is no reason at all for this somewhat agitated tone, I think, I say to Mr Klaver. We are simply trying to bring this to a successful conclusion in peace and fairness. The coverage mentioned by Mr Klaver is possible, but I think it would be wise, in the light of the wider debate, to take a closer look at it. I don't think there's anything against that. In the end, the Chamber always decides how we finance things. The government has never refused its signature under a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u109	I don't think this bathing tone is entirely necessary. In fact, the Chamber has already decided, but the Prime Minister here pretends that the Chamber still needs to think about it, as if it might need to look at it in a broader perspective. That is not the case. You're a missionary. You'd like to forget that. In fact, you are very pleased to be outgoing, so you say: because I will have less trouble with the Chamber. The room has gone through here. I am really proud of what the Christian Union has done, along with the colleagues of the SP. They showed for the first time that the coalition is no longer there, and see what we can do for the Netherlands. Then you simply have this request to make. No more "consultations" at all. A motion has been passed. If you don't do this, why the hell would we still be putting forward proposals here? I ask you once again, and I think you are doing the right thing, to say here, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but now: you are absolutely right, we are going to increase corporation tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u110	No, I really do not agree with Mr Klaver. I think it's very reasonable. The cabinet has now decided to carry out the motion. I'm glad that good news is acknowledged. Secondly, there are two issues: how are you going to cover the costs that this entails in the context of that part of the salaries paid through the system of the Health Insurance Act, where there are a number of fairly fundamental questions about the systems and also about Europe? The second part of the coverage should be provided for those sectors not covered by the Health Insurance Act. Eventually, the Chamber decides. So Mr. Klaver doesn't have to be afraid of that. That's always the decision of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u111	I am looking at the Members, because Mr Omtzigt would be speaking now, but I think this is also the point. To be honest, I would like to give Members a chance to comment on this point. Yeah? I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Ploumen and then to Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Wilders and Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u112	I am not going to read out the motion of the SP colleagues and the Christian Union, but there are two things in it. One: the salaries of the people in the care should be raised. The cabinet held it back for a year and a half. The Chamber has decided that the people in the care deserve a salary increase. In the majority of cases, the Chamber took that decision. The Chamber is responsible. We are missionary, and we do not just want to say that we are going to make more resources available for these healthcare salaries, but the Chamber has also so much responsibility is the Chamber's statement of how that should be covered. That's by increasing corporate income tax. That tax pays companies if they make a profit. Those taxes pay companies if they're okay. That tax on those companies wants to raise the Chamber. That is the balance, integral, broad, in the complex reality, inside and outside the system; that is the integral balance that the Chamber has made. The outgoing Prime Minister says, "We're going to look into that. No. The Chamber has considered that and the Chamber has adopted that motion by majority. It has to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u113	But I would really like to draw the House's attention to the constitutional situation. They are that chamber motions are extremely relevant to cabinet policy. We are also trying, if possible, to carry out chamber motions. In any case, there is a problem with this Chambermovement with regard to that part of the health care salary increase that runs through the Health Insurance Act. In addition, we believe that it is good to consider the coverage of that other part once again in this debate as a Chamber and a Cabinet. It'll come back to the conversations we're having here. If, in the end, the Chamber were to persist in a certain coverage, the cabinet would naturally join in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u114	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u115	The Chamber has already been persevering, because the Chamber has been tabling motions for a year and a half to ensure that people's salaries in health care go up. A motion has now been adopted with that request and with cover. There is nothing left for a outgoing cabinet but the wish of a missionary chamber to carry out, in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u116	No, that's not the state-law thing. It is not the case that a motion should be carried out by the Cabinet. We must have very good arguments if we do not. If the Chamber then adopts the same motion again, then you have a completely political problem. I get all that. That's how it works. But in the relationship between the cabinet and the chamber, the chamber as the auditor of the government, it works in such a way that we weigh motions that we have advised against. We have now responded to this motion by saying that we are implementing it. I think it would be wise, in the same way, to look at this coverage today, also in the light of the debate here and perhaps in the weeks to come. If the Chamber were to insist on a certain coverage, it would be a political issue. I agree with Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u117	It's a political thing. I really do not understand where this outgoing Prime Minister gets the arrogance to ignore it. That's what I'm really wondering. Where does he get the arrogance to continue to insist that we shouldn't touch that toy of the VVD because that much has become clear in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u118	I would like to draw Mrs Marijnissen's attention to the state-law situation. They are that an adopted motion has been dissuaded by the government and that the government must relate to that motion. But it's not like the Chamber is giving orders to the cabinet. That's not how state law works. The Chamber controls the government. The confidence rule allows us to function as long as the majority of the Chamber has confidence in the government. With regard to this motion, we have decided to implement it for a long time and therefore to agree to the increase in salaries for these important sectors of health care. We too say that there are good arguments for doing so. Then there is the question of cover. There is a technical problem with the part covered by the Health Insurance Act. In addition, in the light of the discussion that is taking place here on the 2022 budget, I do not think it would be weird to weigh that up with each other once again in connection with the other discussions. If the Chamber were to press in a certain direction, the cabinet would not be in any way obstructing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u119	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u120	Finally. The outgoing Prime Minister says that the cabinet is not going to stand in the way, but it does nothing else, actually, all the time. Mrs Ploumen was right to say that we have been fighting here for over a year about increasing those healthcare salaries. I really wonder what else you should do as a Chamber before a outgoing cabinet says: are we going to do that? We have been told what we want and how we are going to pay it, because that is often the criticism. I have just responded extensively to the technical argument, to the argument of the law. You can change the law. If you cannot change the law quickly enough now, you can now arrange it once, then you can discuss it even longer, and then you can arrange it structuralally next year. All of that can be done, so that's not the problem. But this outgoing Prime Minister just doesn't want it. And then we have a bigger problem. I heard him say himself: as long as the House of Representatives still trusts that this cabinet is doing a bit well... Well, I sincerely wonder why the House of Representatives still has to have that confidence. Why do we still need that? On what basis can we still have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u121	I think it is right to make the following distinction. Mrs Marijnissen and I do not agree on the part of the healthcare salary increase that is ultimately financed on the axis of the Health Insurance Act. I do agree with her that a change of law is possible. I have merely pointed out that it will have to be part of the discussion that this change of law is, of course, also under the control of a number of more fundamental questions that affect the system, its consistency with other systems and European regulations. That's for the part that has to be paid under the Health Insurance Act. In the light of the discussion today, which is also about purchasing power and possible other changes in the budget, the Cabinet considers it wise to look at the part that is not paid under the Health Insurance Act in conjunction with each other. There's nothing against that, is there? And in the end, a majority of the House must decide how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u122	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u123	I understand, but we fought for this for a long time. That's why I just want clarity from this outgoing Prime Minister. Then we'll make it very concrete. What is now going on is indeed a bit technical, but that 60% could, if you would like, be paid by increasing the tax on profits. That 40% can't be. We do not agree with that, but that is the argument of the outgoing cabinet. In any case, is the outgoing Prime Minister prepared to respect the wishes of the Chamber and say: of course, that we pay from corporation tax in the document where it can be done technically and through law? That's one. That could just be a yes or no. Two is that other part that will cost people in the Netherlands €13 per year extra care premium. Is the outgoing Prime Minister prepared to say to that part: we are going to compensate them by another way? This can be done, for example, by increasing the tax on profits. I want that to be clear at least. Those are two very specific questions. I would like to hear from the outgoing Prime Minister whether he will at least do so, so that we can see here whether this outgoing cabinet is taking this Chamber seriously at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u124	We are carrying out the motion, in which we initially said: in the weighting of all kinds of priorities we do not think this is wise. We have decided, after hesitations and internal discussions and also heard from the Chamber, to carry out the motion, so there will be an increase in the cost of care. Now I'm with her two questions. First of all... I have argued that the part that runs through the Health Insurance Act is not that simple. Sometimes life is more complicated. I think it calls for a longer discussion between the Cabinet and the Chamber, perhaps in the coming weeks, to know exactly what the system consequences and European law consequences would be if you did what Mrs Marijnissen suggests here. Then you're left with the part that doesn't go through the Health Insurance Act. To this end, motions and other statements in the Chamber tonight or in the coming weeks will make it clear whether Mrs Marijnissen's coverage or other coverage is appropriate. I do not think it would be foolish to weigh that up in the light of the broader discussion that is taking place here, which I listened to very carefully yesterday. This is also in line with the constitutional situation. It is not the case that when the Chamber adopts a motion, it gives an order to the cabinet. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u125	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u126	Mr President, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u127	I just gave you some extra time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u128	Yeah, I understand that, but I'd like to... If I have to, I'm gonna sit around for a while. I would like a clearer answer, because this is not an answer. My first specific question concerns the €13 that people will have to pay more in health care contributions. Is he at least prepared to say here that that part is going to be compensated in a different way and that we are going to pick it up from the big companies that make profits? 'Cause you can. Then you have nothing to do with laws or technology. It's possible. Is he prepared to say about that part, where it is possible, that at least that is where we properly implement the wishes of the Chamber; that is what we pay out of the increase in corporation tax? 'Cause that statement from the Chamber is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u129	Those are two clear questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u130	I have argued that external coverage for the part covered by the Health Insurance Act does not fit the system of the same Health Insurance Act. It states that expenditure must be paid from the contribution income and from the income-dependent contribution. For the lowest salaries, this is compensated in the care allowance. That is the system that we decided on here in 2006 and which was later subject to amendments. Mrs Marijnissen repeats her request for a legislative amendment. I have argued that this really brings with it a number of other issues. Other forms of external financing also give rise to a weighting, namely how this relates to public and private schemes, and to European regulation. It's not that simple. Unfortunately. I just need to be honest about that. As far as the other part is concerned, that is, of course, ultimately up to the Chamber. We will follow the Chamber in that, but I do not think that it is unwise to do so today, even in the light of the broader debate on the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u131	I've had a little bit of it, to tell you the truth. I also do not understand why the Chamber, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver... I supported Mrs Marijnissen's and the Christian Union's motion with conviction, but we are simply going to let you squeal, and you will not carry out the motion if you do not also implement how that salary increase is to be paid. That's Mark Rutte pur sang. He is arrogant, he doesn't work on support in the Chamber and he chases everyone against himself, while the motion has been adopted by a majority of the House of Representatives. Madam President, if necessary, we shall suspend or know anything, but I would like to condemn this in a motion of censure. I think that's a principle. That is what I want to do now, and we will see whether the parties that are now saying that they should not do so support it or not. If a majority of the Chamber thinks that the increase in wages should be paid out of the tax on profits, then surely it cannot be that the people who already have poor purchasing power get a rise in contributions? That is not a bit of a failure to implement the motion; that is contrary to what the authors of the motion have said. I am not; I only supported the motion. If you insist on this now, I would now like to table a motion of censure, mistrust or whatever. I do not think that we should let an arrogant Prime Minister, Mr Klaver and Mrs Marijnissen, squeeze us anymore, just a little bit for rotten fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u132	Thank you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u133	No, not "thank you"! This is a point of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u134	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u135	Are we lamb or lion? If we really don't take this, I want a ruling on it now. This is an order proposal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u136	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u137	I'd like to hear if the other colleagues will give me that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u138	There is a point of order from Mr Wilders to have the opportunity to table a motion now. I'll take a look at the colleagues. Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u139	The outgoing Prime Minister is really strengthening relations with the constructive part here in the Chamber. That's what I want to tell him. I say to Mr Wilders: we are going to continue the debate, but we are going to table motions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u140	No support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u141	I agree with the last thing Mr Klaver said. I would add that the Christian Union is one of the authors of that motion. So if one group has a right to speak, it's us. When the cabinet says "just give us an opportunity to look at the coverage in all of things," I think that is a perfectly normal way of dealing with the cabinet and the Chamber. I really don't think it's a good idea to play it so high. It's like the cover becomes an end in itself. What I'm celebrating is that people who work very hard in health care can face a salary increase. Of course we're having a discussion about the cover. Of course I had a first preference. We have written it down, but if the request is now to give the opportunity to talk about it in all things, I would say that I am happy to give it to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u142	In any case, no support for Mr Wilders' order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u143	Mr. Chairman. Nor does the SGP support the tabling of a motion now or for a vote on it. We can do that normally, in an orderly debate in the second term. I would also like to say in substance: let us count our blessings. There's been so long talk about those care salaries. Several motions have been tabled; the motion has also been adopted but has not yet been carried out. Now is the time when we can tell the healthcare workers that we have succeeded in finding a majority and a cabinet, a outgoing cabinet, ready to implement it. Frankly, as a SGP, we also had a lot of support for that part of the motion, but we had difficulty saying: let us let the entrepreneurs pay for it. I think it is just fine to go into a broader picture, including weighing up all the plans that are still under discussion today, to see what the best and most widely worn cover is. I believe that this is also in line with the normal relations between the cabinet and parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u144	Nor do I support Mr Wilders' proposal of order, and I agree with Mr Van der Staaij's wise words. We, too, have not supported this motion and it is good to see in this debate what good coverage can be for a motion that we have not supported but which has a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u145	Mr Azarkan, DENK, and then Mrs Ouwehand, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u146	Mr. Chairman. I think it is wise that we should debate with each other and that there is no possibility of tabling a motion of censure, but I would like to ask whether there can be any justification for the choices that have been made and the proposal for cover. We think we can get it out of the state's contribution. I really think that's possible. The Prime Minister states that that is not possible. I would like to know which variants have been considered. This can be shared with underlying documents. Then we can base the further debate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u147	Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals always asks the question: can we form a cabinet in which the Netherlands trusts? But it seems like we can't even trust our own room. I'm really upset about that. We're gonna let the Prime Minister get away with snooping and referring to the state-law situation. How did this discussion on raising salaries go? The Prime Minister is arrogant to the initiator of the SP. Then there will be a motion and he will say in all his arrogance: "I will discourage the motion, referring to the debate." There was the opportunity of the outgoing Prime Minister to say: I see that you are proposing to raise those salaries and I see that you want to cover that with an increase in the income tax; we still have to look at that to see if we are sister or something... Then the cabinet has the chance, if it really thinks it would be an unwise choice of the Second Chamber, to convince the Second Chamber not to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u148	Mrs Ouwehand, responding to Mr Wilders' proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u149	You can already feel it coming: I feel a great deal about supporting a motion of censure or a motion of censure. And I want to mark that the Prime Minister is incredibly arrogant, already when the motion was tabled and now again. I don't think the Chamber should let him get away with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u150	You support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u151	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is facing serious problems. There's no affordable house to be found. People notice little or nothing of economic prosperity in their wallets. Workers in care and education must be better rewarded. That's what we stand for, as a missionary chamber. I would like to appeal to the outgoing Prime Minister and his outgoing cabinet: if he thinks these problems need to be resolved, he would be pleased to take a constructive stance with the missionary Chamber on the proposals it makes, not for that Chamber but for the people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u152	What about the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u153	Now I come to Mr Wilders' proposal. We submit motions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u154	I've heard a lot of magic with numbers, to start with. The burden on the companies would increase, but in the government's pictures the landlord's tax on social housing belongs to the companies. As it has been increased, the burden on companies increased. But not the companies, but the people with the lowest incomes pay this directly through the rent. The government says that the burden on citizens is falling, but next year, wages and income tax will rise from 66 billion to 78 billion. The citizens pay an additional 12 billion by means of their pay slip according to the budget presented by this cabinet. That was before the windfall in the growth estimate. The idea that the cabinet has here, namely that it is a tax cut for the working Dutchman, has been such a big kid in recent years that I do not understand that it is still being spoken. I support Mr Azarkan's request. There are opportunities to do this. For example, you can simply increase the tax on profits and thus increase the general tax discount a bit. This means that every Dutchman will pay €13 less tax. Then you'll be out on a detour, too. There are very easy workarounds to just carry out that motion. I would like to have an overview of this and I would like to see it taken with me. Then we'll be able to see which one can best be performed. And by the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u155	What about Mr Wilders' proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u156	Not now, but in the second term. And in principle, Mr President, I would like to ask you to write a letter to the government stating that Parliamentary motions must be carried out. Since we all have role mixes, I'm just going to do it formally. I just gave a whole list of my contributions to motions. The motion on an investigation standard will not be introduced. We have these now, too. I've got a whole list of motions. What does the government think? I want a formal answer. You don't have to do that right now, but just by letter. I want a formal response from this super- hyper-demissionary government that can't form anything. How does she think she's gonna deal with the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Let me look at Mr Jetten van D66 and Mrs Hermans. Then I conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u158	I understand all the feelings expressed by colleagues, but the order proposal has now become a debate in itself. According to this, this does not help in the course of this APB. I do not support Mr Wilders' proposal. We're filing second-term motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u159	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u160	Nor does it support Mr Wilders' request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u161	I think I have already expressed my disapproval and expressed it, but I would like to endorse Mr Omtzigt's request. However, I would like to stress once again that the ruling of the Chamber is very fundamental. It is that we say that raising healthcare salaries can be well paid by making large companies with which they are doing well pay a more honest contribution. That makes it principled. There are other ways to solve this. I have already proposed a few in the debate. I really think it's a big problem for the Prime Minister to throw it all away. He's running away from technology. In any case, he does not answer the very fundamental question. If the outgoing Prime Minister insists that he cannot do so in this system, he is indeed at least prepared to say that the €13 that the care premium should be raised will be compensated in another way and that this will be paid by raising corporate tax, as this Chamber wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u162	Thank you. Let me conclude by saying that it was an order proposal by Mr Wilders. There's no majority for that. I deliberately gave a little more space, because I find that the Chamber needs to think about it a little longer. I appeal to the Prime Minister to at least respond to the request to send a letter to the Chamber. Different ideas and options have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u163	Not today, Mr. Chairman. I'll check it out. That really takes more than that. Let's see if we can do this. The Minister of VWS is looking to see if that can be done, but there is also a need for proper legal advice on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u164	Yes. A number of suggestions have been made. I suggest we move on to the other subjects now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u165	If we can, we'll send a letter. On Mrs Marijnissen's point, in order to make no mistake between her and me: the increase in the health allowance as a result of the compensation does, of course, go beyond that coverage. So if the care allowance goes up because the care salaries are rising, it will be covered outside the Zvw. So that part... I thought I'd meet her at that point, but she still doesn't look happy. Mrs Marijnissen made a point. She said: if you decided to raise the premium, it would have an effect on the care allowance for those with a lower income. That part of the healthcare allowance, which should therefore be raised, also leads to a budgetary effect. That budgetary effect does not have to be paid out of that piece of roughly 40% that runs through the Health Insurance Act. That part then goes along with the coverage that is also needed for issues related, for example, to the social domain of long-term care. I thought I'd meet her with that, but I can't do it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u166	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u167	It is quite simple: this outgoing cabinet refuses to carry out the adopted motion with the coverage this Chamber wants and says: this increases the care premium for people by €13. We do not agree with that. That is why I ask the outgoing Prime Minister if he will at least undertake to compensate for the €13 which, according to this cabinet, is apparently going to have to raise the care premium in a different way. We don't need to get into this technique right now. This can indeed be done by means of the general tax rebate. There are all kinds of things to think about. I see there's a laugh, but this is very fundamental, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u168	That is not possible, because this cannot be done under the Health Insurance Act. But we're gonna put that on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u169	I think it, just looking at this subject... it seems good... the Prime Minister has announced to come up with a letter. I really want to end this issue now. A number of questions have been asked on the subject of economics and finance. Then I'll see if there's any questions. Let's get this part...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u170	Do you want me to finish this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u171	I think I've given you a lot of opportunity to discuss it. You disagree, so I am really giving the Prime Minister the floor to conclude this economic and financial area. I'll see if there's any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u172	First of all, I have an answer for Mr Omtzig to the question of what is the last moment to change budgets. I owed him that much. That has now been given to me by the administration. In itself, this can be done until the votes. Letters of amendment may still be issued. So that's usually, is the experience, in the calendar of the Chamber the last week before Christmas. Of course, that's not ideal. You want to talk about it a lot earlier, during the different budget treatments. They're mostly in November. Any new tax reforms almost always require a separate implementation and legislative test, which will often not be possible by 2022. However, changes to existing tax parameters for 2022 can be processed until the beginning of November. This means that in the course of October, no later than the beginning of November, you should agree on whether wide changes are needed, regardless of the formation. Mr. Chairman. Then to the other questions that remain in the area of the economy. Because of the many interruptions, many questions have already been answered. There was still the question of whose prosperity you measure the state of the economy. I am, of course, concerned with the prosperity of all Dutch people. It's not the same for everyone. That is also why we look at the distribution of wealth in the Macro Economic Recognitions, but also in the Broad Prosperity Monitor, and for example at the development of purchasing power for different groups. Then the suggestion has been made that a committee be set up to review the social minimum for different types of households. I think this is really something you should look at at the formation. The social minimum is now linked to the minimum wage and therefore increases with weighted collective wage wages. According to the Nibud's example budgets, people can provide for their necessary costs. However, research carried out by the Nibud and the Commission's report on sustainability shows that households cannot always survive in specific situations. Then there was the question of how we can help companies to make more sustainable rather than close. How do we work together on a greener business? This is part of this chapter because it also affects the wider economic issues. Of course, it is first a responsibility of the companies themselves. The government can provide good framework conditions. It is therefore also a joint responsibility. Look also at the debate that took place last week on Tata Steel. As a cabinet, we have now taken a number of measures in anticipation of the formation, for example the increase in the SDE++ budget by 3 billion, and we are making a very substantial contribution to energy infrastructure, already over 1.4 billion. It concerns, for example, the conversion of parts of the gas network into a national hydrogen backbone that connects the Dutch industrial clusters. That again depends on the ambition to ensure in the coming years, in line with those wonderful "Woman on the Moon" projects that Mrs Minnesma of the Urgenda case is talking about, that the eleven most polluting companies in the Netherlands remain. This is also in line with a report from the GroenLinks scientific bureau. You're not trying to chase these companies out of the country, you're trying to keep them here and clean them up. When will there be an ESC opinion on strengthening the Dutch industry? We expect that at the beginning of 2022. Are we doing enough to stay innovative? We are now fifth on the European Scoreboard. Of course, a substantial investment is needed. This is through the Growth Fund, for example. Then you talk about about about 1.3 billion a year. But I believe that there is also an opportunity here for the IPCEIs, which are important projects for common European interests, but also Horizon Europe. There are still major decisions to be made on this matter. There are also huge opportunities. Then companies with less than 50 people: can you delete useless rules for that? Of course, unfortunately, there are rules for smaller companies as well, but hopefully no nonsense. Therefore, it is always considered whether these are as proportional and load-bearing as possible. This is particularly true when we lay down rules for SMEs. That is also what the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review is working on. Then there is the importance of an active industrial policy and more manufacturing industry in the Netherlands, to which Mr Heerma asked. I can only say that this cabinet attaches great importance to a strong position for industry. Especially in conjunction with solving a number of major climate issues, there are links to that subject, but also wider. That is why we also have the mission-driven top sectors innovation policy. With the Implementation Agenda Smart Industry, we also focus on digitisation, and with the Technics Pact on strengthening human capital in the manufacturing industry. I think you should say that the Dutch model, of public and private, with input from, for example, the knowledge clusters, is a successful approach. We still have time to claim the money from Brussels. Of course we do. We're not gonna leave that money. I've said that before. But it also calls for it to be the Dutch wish that countries should also reform if they want to have access to that fund, a number of reforms. I think they will be related to the cabinet formation. If the formation would take too long, we will, of course, submit plans as a missionary cabinet. We're not gonna leave that money. In relation to the burden on entrepreneurs, how do we ensure that they do not increase too much? I believe that we have achieved and are still able to achieve the necessary regulatory burden. For example, the simplification of the cost of work, the modernisation of the small enterprise scheme and the simplification of the application procedure should be applied in practice. Small and medium-sized enterprises are widely discussed, in close cooperation between public authorities and entrepreneurs, in order to make regulation appropriate. Of course, we want to continue to do so, and we want to intensify this further. I have already mentioned the issue that Mrs Den Haan raised, namely the labour market position of people under 67, but 50-plus. Finally, Mrs Den Haan asked a question about age discrimination. Is that what money is being spent on? This is a persistent problem. I have just spoken briefly with her about it in an interrupting debate. During this cabinet period, the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan was drawn up. This runs along a number of lines: monitoring and enforcement, research and tools, knowledge and awareness. It sees on all grounds of discrimination. Funds are available for exploratory inspections by the SZW Inspection, but also for research and communication. This budget is used for all grounds of discrimination, including age discrimination. It is therefore wider in itself, but it also affects the issue of age discrimination. Mr President, that was an attempt on my part to answer all the questions relating to paragraph 1 of my answer, namely economics and finance. The next chapter would indeed be housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u173	There are still a number of interruptions, first of all by Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party, then by Mr Jetten, then by Mr Omtzigt and then by Mr Dassen. I suggest that we suspend very briefly afterwards and move on to housing. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u174	I am a little hesitant, because the debate on the motion for a resolution on healthcare salaries was not yet ready, but then you decided to do the rest of the questions at the end of the block. And in all honesty, that helps professional-K. 'Cause I can already figure out exactly what the Prime Minister's gonna say. A little airy, a little laconic, of: ah, I've just said everything about that. The urgency is then out of that debate. So I hesitate now, but I'm gonna try anyway and I already know that the Prime Minister is gonna put me away as someone who's trying to come back to a discussion that's long closed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u175	You're asking your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u176	...but I'm gonna do it anyway because I think it's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u177	I have also given you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u178	Yes, but it was after the Prime Minister could say all kinds of other things first. And that means something to the power of the Chamber. But I do it anyway because it's very fundamental. Because we're in a really weird situation. We have a outgoing cabinet after a major crisis of confidence and promises about a new governance culture, with the question: is the Chamber lamb or lion? In the first term yesterday, we heard that there are hand-outs being made, that the Chamber can, of course, speak along the whole budget and change it. But we can already see the first example that the outgoing cabinet has the arrogance not to do its job when motions are tabled. It may happen that you say: there are really fundamental hooks and eyes on this proposal, so I would advise against it, for this reason. The outgoing Prime Minister didn't do that. It says arrogantly: I reject that motion with reference to the debate. And then the motion was adopted and then the outgoing cabinet takes the room for itself to see if it actually likes it and whether it makes sense to carry out the motion as proposed by the Chamber. If that is the attitude with which we are dealing with this budget, with which the proposals that the Chamber is about to make and which will be adopted, are dealt with by the outgoing cabinet, then it is better to conclude that we will stop. So I don't understand why the outgoing Prime Minister wants to tell the Chamber "there is talk to us," but when the first test comes along, it doesn't really turn out to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u179	I really don't understand. We're carrying out the motion. We're going to raise the salaries in health care after we've had a very long discussion about that. The only discussion is now partly technical and partly in terms of coverage. I have already said that if the Chamber decides to re-establish the cover previously provided, we will of course implement it. But it seemed sensible to me, too, to hear from the Chamber of this House that that thought was not completely absurd to look at it a little more broadly in today's debate and perhaps that of the next two weeks. In addition, we have a technical problem and this has to do with external money adding to a system of the Health Insurance Act, which in itself is a closed system with premium income and an income-dependent contribution. That's a technical point. Finally, on a constitutional level, I really do stand, whether or not it is the Chamber that gives orders to the government; the Chamber adopts motions and the government then has to weigh them very heavily. The Chamber is the government's auditor and when it comes to legislation we are at eye level. And as an inspector, you're our boss. But that doesn't mean you give orders, which means you take motions that we almost always carry out. Sometimes we come back to the Chamber that something technical cannot be done and sometimes we say that there are too many objections in substance. Then you have the debate again. If the Chamber then adopts such a motion again, then there is a very serious political fact. But that's how it works in the constitutional relations between Cabinet and Chamber. It is not, however, that we are a kind of implementation team of the House of Representatives. That's not how state law works. That's not arrogant, that's just what the proportions are like. I mean, we've done that motion that we were opposed to at first, haven't we? We'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u180	Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand. You have already mentioned this point in the debate on order, but I would like to give you a chance to comment on it. On behalf of a number of colleagues, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to really send the letter today for the second term. There's a real need for that, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u181	I'm gonna see if I can do that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u182	If I can, but I do make an urgent appeal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u183	At least I'll get back to you if I can. They're gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u184	On behalf of the Chamber, I urge you to do so. Finally, Mrs Ouwehand, and then we move on to Mr Jetten, then to Mr Omtzigt and then to Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u185	Mr President, you have a point, I have already mentioned it in the debate on order. That was actually the question I wanted to ask, and I should not have done that in the debate on order. Then there's the question to the outgoing Prime Minister. It is indeed arrogant because he thinks he needs to explain to the Chamber what the state-law situation is. I say, "Sure." It is absolutely possible for the Chamber to make proposals where the cabinet, where executive directors who bear the responsibility, say: it is very unwise to do so, and I will explain to you why. But the outgoing prime minister didn't do that when the motion was filed. There was a little discussion about healthcare salaries; then the motion came and then he said in all his arrogance: dissuade with reference to the debate. Then the Chamber decides and afterwards the outgoing Prime Minister comes up with a letter saying: yes, that Chamber, that is actually just a collection of people who don't know what they're talking about. Afterwards; you should have done it in advance, because that is the responsibility of directors, even if they are missionary. Then the Chamber can make a well-balanced judgment. So the outgoing Prime Minister just hasn't done his job and he's pretending now that the Chamber is a collection of kids who have wish lists for sintering classrooms, but that from his high ivory tower he's the one who decides what's wise and what's not. That is clearly the attitude with which we need to discuss the Millions' Note for 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u186	Mrs Ouwehand is now coming up with all sorts of accusations in my direction about how I would see the traffic cabinet room that doesn't make sense, really not from a to z. I don't know where to begin to refute this claim. We are trying to have as good a debate as possible, to answer questions and if motions are adopted that are in principle simply to implement them. If we don't, we'll call it in. I have the habit of discussing motions when they have been discussed in detail in a debate, even for the sake of time I have been doing so for years, and I have never had any criticism of saying: we have debated them; given that debate my opinion is not recommended. If Mrs Ouwehand wants me to repeat in the second period all the arguments from the first period, I will consider whether I should do so in future, but that second period will take much longer. So I'm doing that a little bit to meet each other, because we had that whole debate at the time about healthcare salaries and that's why I gave that advice. The opinion has been completely discarded, the Chamber has adopted the motion and we are implementing it now. We're gonna raise the healthcare pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u187	Yesterday, in the first term of the Chamber, apart from a number of serious clashes, I think we had a very good substantive debate. There were a few things that became clear. First of all, we all hate the fact that this formation is taking so long and that it would be very good if a new missionary cabinet could quickly come to work with all these great challenges. We have also found that this cabinet is triple-demissionary and that it wants to prevent 2022 from becoming a lost year, a year in which we do nothing about building affordable houses, a year in which we do nothing about the climate crisis, a year in which we do nothing about the opportunity crisis. All kinds of groups made suggestions yesterday: reducing the landlord's tax, improving the salaries for primary school teachers and improving the salaries for nurses, in order to do good things for the Netherlands in 2022. We are now debating the Prime Minister's first reply in two hours. Actually, we haven't made it past the healthcare pay. All these other topics will be discussed in due course. In this way, I do not think that we are going to get along with the budget today and in the next few weeks. That is why I would like to tell the Prime Minister a few things, because I have just heard him say so myself, and I thought that was very sensible, that we will also have to look more broadly today and in the weeks to come at how we are going to make that budget 2022 a good budget. I also heard the Minister of Finance yesterday say that public finances look remarkably good, that they are very solid in economic and financial terms and that they give room for manoeuvre because public finances are better than anticipated. My question to the Prime Minister after this debate on healthcare salaries, and knowing that we have to talk about housing and education, is: what obstacles does he see today, or next week in the financial considerations, as a Chamber and outgoing cabinet, taking steps to add to that 2022 budget on top of it already presented on Princes Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u188	Yes; that is within a certain amount of sensible budgetary policy. So I hope that I will keep Mr Jetten on my side, that we will not open the locks. So it's very good to spend extra money on all kinds of things. A lot of suggestions have been made; I heard very few coverage yesterday. The cabinet will also occasionally draw attention to this, that things are also a bit covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u189	I heard a lot of cover proposals from the Chamber yesterday. Mrs Hermans is not here right now, but great compliments to her, because she actually opened the conversation by asking: will we bet a billion for the BIK? I myself and Mr Heerma have talked about tackling tax avoidance. Parties on links suggest changes in corporate tax. I can think of a few more. But I really don't feel like going into these things very specifically right now, because we've been debating something very specific for two hours. My question is actually more meta-level. In what way can we, as a Chamber today, next week in the financial deliberations and in the coming weeks in the specific budget discussions with this outgoing cabinet remain in conversation, so that we do not have a lost year of 2022? Because we want to build affordable houses and improve salaries for teachers and nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u190	That's a good question. Anyway, it's also a joint search for the best way. I said on Sunday in Hilversum that from D66, CDA and VVD an attempt would be made to approach a broader political centre, such as GroenLinks, Labour Party, Christian Union and other parties, to see if you could take a first step this week to make the budget more political. Then two parties said: at least we do not want to do so in private. I don't have a problem with that, so we'll do it here. That can also work very well. So what is the traditional way of making its views clear? I am not going to go over it, but I think these are motions and amendments. Then you should see if there are majorities for that. The government can respond to this, particularly in the light of the coverage, as Mr Jetten says. I imagine we can come a long way tonight. I hope so. I have, of course, views on that. From the forming parties D66, CDA and VVD there is the initiative of Mrs Hermans. That's a way to do that. Then you could agree on the use of those funds. But once again, the Chamber has to say where it's going. I very much hope that there will be a second moment in which we will have the formation in motion very quickly. Then you're going to look at the budget process in a rather fundamental way. That's already so far on the way. That is a bit à la 2012 with the Labour Party and the VVD. We asked very quickly: how are we going to make this budget even more political and make some changes? We can do that if the formation starts. That is actually quite easy, because then you can say from the forming parties: we are coming up with a bigger amendment to the budget that is already there. Then no one will blame it for happening from the back rooms. That will then be a letter of amendment. Coalition parties that are not part of the formation can just vote what they want. Coalition parties which are part of the formation can go along with that. If that doesn't work, then the point comes from Omtzigt. There comes a time when, as a Chamber on a larger scale than Mrs Hermans' present proposal, you have to say: we have to look at what majorities are for. Yesterday, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Klaver said: perhaps we want to do bigger things already. Of course, the Chamber is free to do so. That's not up to me. What if today it was limited to the billion? I'm not going over it, but suppose there are majorities to be found for how you spend it. Suppose the formation starts, then you can discuss a larger change in the budget with the forming parties. If that doesn't work, it gets complicated, because then you have to start thinking about a process that will bring you to Chambers for example to tackle nitrogen and the climate. Of course, much more needs to be done than is stated in this budget. Also on all major issues, such as undermining, defense and education, you need to figure out how to make 2022 a policy-rich year. I myself think it's almost impossible to avoid having to sit in a room with each other for once, without a TV camera. And yes, I'm sorry, that seems like old governance culture. But perhaps we can make that great movement in debates in the Chamber with motions and amendments. I'm open to it. It's possible. That's a joint search. Of course, we have not done so before. I hope that is not necessary, because the formation is now in progress. Then you fall back into the well-known 2012 system, which is a budget change by the forming parties. That's how I'd see it, but I'm open to any other suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u191	I am glad to note that the Prime Minister sees financial scope with me because of the good state of public finances and that the Prime Minister finds with me that, if the Chamber provides cover proposals that can count on a majority, the outgoing cabinet will also accept cover proposals. I understand his reasoning. It is crazy, of course, but the budget and the formation are a bit similar this year, and that's a little searching for all of us. But the fact is, of course, that we still have the question of whether and, if so, how a minority cabinet can be formed. You can make a big amendment with minority parties at some point to add to the budget, but that is what you do with a minority coalition. Then you'll still have to find fruitful cooperation with the rest of the Chamber. I do not think that the first two hours of this day of the APB are really encouraging, because the debate on healthcare salaries has, I think, shown that there is still a very big gap between what this Chamber has in mind for the next few weeks and how the outgoing cabinet intends to relate to that. I would therefore like to challenge the outgoing Prime Minister to look a little more closely at how we can achieve a comprehensive package, not only with the minority parties who are already talking to us, but also with the broad coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u192	I think I hear a piece of feedback I don't recognize, so I'm cool with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u193	One point and one question. The point is this. We won't be voting on the Tax Plan until November. The Prime Minister has just indicated that in October is really the last moment of change. For many things relating to taxes, that is actually even earlier. We have made changes too late in the past, with all the problems that have arisen. The solution I propose is to increase the general tax rebate. That's one of those buttons we talked about. But you can't do that until November. If that is accepted, it is too late to start next year. So until November, we only have motions to ask the cabinet a few questions. We can't change that law. That law needs to be changed later. That is why I ask the cabinet here to take very much account of it, especially in view of its missionary status, and to come up with that letter quickly, so that it can be decided. Otherwise it is "you can change the law" and the moment you want to change the law, it is: yes, you are too late to change the law. I don't want to get into that trajectory. Secondly, on the social minimum. The Prime Minister said it was Nibud's opinion that anyone could live off the social minimum. The Nibud states very explicitly that 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds who live on the minimum youth wage alone cannot live on that basis in any way. They get around €700 per month. There's no way to get there your rent, care and food from the pay. They all go directly into debt relief. The same applies to a household with two children between 12 and 18. The Prime Minister also indicates that the minimum rates are indexed to wages, but that is not true. The reduction in the portability of the tax rebates means that the minimum rates increase less than the collective wage, and this has been going on for many years. That's why they're falling behind internationally. That's why we have so many people at the food bank. That is why we are now discussing energy poverty. Then I find it a little faint to say that we have the choice to set up a committee once. What is a social minimum for young people, for bread-winners, but also for people in a Wlz institution? We have to postpone it to formation, because that is where they have to determine it. That's something you can promise right now. You can say no to it, too. I get that. Then I'll come up with a motion. But is the government prepared to set up such a committee to review that social minimum with a number of experts? Then the political choices can then be made on the basis of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u194	I really can't see that first point right now. I can try to answer that in the second term. Let's see if it comes back to the AFB. Perhaps I could ask the administration to provide this for the second term or later in this first term. I think it would go a little far to agree to set up such a committee. By the way, I can imagine you're doing something else. You could, of course, ask the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau to at least start updating its example budgets. These are budgets that are drawn up, not on the basis of the level of benefits, but above all on the basis of what people need, as Mr Omtzigt also proposes here. That might be a road. But now setting up a committee to look very fundamentally at the social minimum and the link to the development of contract wage increases... Maybe Mr Omtzigt could table a motion on that, so that I can have a little time with the cabinet to consider whether we are still on our way to doing so, or whether this is something more for a new cabinet. So I'd really like to think about that. In any case, I could promise him, if that helps him, that we'll ask the SCP to update his exemplary budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u195	It is a little more fundamental than the exemplary budgets of the Social and Cultural Planning Office, which are, by the way, helpful. It's really about looking very fundamentally at what you need to get around as a young person, as a breadwinner, as a long-term resident of a Wlz institution. Are those things available, too? So if it says in that example budget "you have to have an affordable rental house to make ends meet," then it's also nice that we know you can find that affordable rental house. It's about getting around when you need a ride to work because you live 20 kilometers away from work, and you don't get a travel allowance on top of the minimum wage. That's becoming a huge problem. I want that to be looked at in a fundamental way. By the way, we have a government that can decide to spend 7 billion for climate change; that doesn't matter, and it does want that in a missionary status. And that government cannot say: yes, but because we are expelled, we do not set up a committee to see if people can make ends meet? I mean, come on; this can just be done with a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u196	I disagree. It's okay to change those SCP sample budgets. I can also imagine that Mr Omtzigt would ask a motion for a resolution from the Chamber on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u197	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u198	I find it difficult. I think I'm just gonna do a little exorcism. If a motion is adopted, we will have the discussion here on how to implement it. If I ask for a commitment, it'll just be a motion. It's gonna be a horde-loop act. Each time, the outgoing cabinet adds a horde as if the Chamber were a missionary. It's the government that's missionary. So if a motion is adopted here, I will stand here in the morning, in the afternoon and in the evening to ensure that it is carried out to the letter and to the spirit. It's starting to be some sort of horde walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u199	The only thing I asked Mr Omtzigt was for me to think about the usefulness and necessity of such a committee. There are also a number of more political questions. That's why I said maybe a motion. I would also like to come back to it a little later. I just want to weigh that up in the cabinet; it's not that weird. So let's just wait and see the motion route. I would ask Mr Koolmees to think about Mr Omtzigt's suggestion. He's gonna come up with some advice, and I'm gonna take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u200	That's the end of it. Mr Heerma may go first from Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u201	Thanks for that. I would like to ask a follow-up question to Mr Omtzigt's question, which I am not quite sure the Prime Minister is moving in that direction. Mr Omtzigt's point is that he would like a commitment and not a reference to a motion. At the beginning of his term, the Prime Minister has already promised that he will take up the formation at the end, in the last block. Is it not an idea that Mr Koolmees, who has just been given this mandate, is looking at this before the end of the Prime Minister's first term, so that it can also be discussed before Mr Omtzigt is forced to table a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u202	Absolutely, that was my intention, too. That was my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u203	Look. Mr Dassen and then Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Wilders and Mrs Van der Plas. First Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u204	The Prime Minister just asked Mr Jetten where the cover proposals were. Mr Jetten has already given a few. But, of course, there is also just 5.8 billion for the Netherlands in Europe. That money can be spent on climate change, on the sustainability of housing, to combat the energy poverty we were talking about this morning. We can invest the money in digitalization, in innovation, in education. That 5.8 billion is there. We have already adopted a motion on this in June to ensure that the cabinet will start working on plans. Now I hear the Prime Minister say: we're going to postpone that until there's a new cabinet; then we're going to make those plans and if that cabinet doesn't come up, then we're going to submit plans. So I wonder why this hasn't been done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u205	There's no new cabinet. The problem is: if you want access to that pot of money, the Commission is right to ask for further reforms, also in the context of the country-specific recommendations. We estimate that, with the existing package of reforms that this cabinet is now implementing, we may be forced by the Commission to carry out additional reforms. I think that's a good idea for a cabinet formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u206	Those are reforms that concern the housing market. These are reforms that concern the internal tax system. I think there is also a majority here in the House of Representatives in favour of implementing it. In my view, the Prime Minister could just get to work on this. This is money that we can invest, especially in order to ensure that the generations of the future, as described in the Millions Note, do not suffer again because burdens can be pushed forward. We can invest that 5.8 billion now. If we can reach agreement on this in the Lower House, can the Prime Minister promise that he will get right on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u207	Yeah, well, those are also topics that you talk about in a mutual weighting, I think, in a cabinet formation. Those are, of course, very big changes. There are also political views on one side and on the other, where you end up in classical compromises. That is inevitable, I think. At the moment, it seems to me that there are no statements in the Chamber that are sufficient, to my mind, to convince the Commission. Then we're really gonna have to do more. Anyway, let's see. But we're on time anyway. I can promise Mr Dassen that we will ensure that this money is not lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u208	Mr Jetten wishes to make a point on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u209	A brief question on this point. Earlier in the Committee on Finance, the promise was made that if the formation does not speed up, the cabinet will come to the Chamber in October with a letter on how to deal with this European aid package. I understand that we also need to reform if we are to be able to claim the European funds for sustainability, digitisation and other important issues. But Brussels also has deadlines. So if we wait too long, we might be fishing behind the net. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what can the Chamber expect in October if the formation does not yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u210	That commitment is already there, so that's what we're gonna do. At our best we really have a while, also a long way in next year, to claim that money. It's definitely not gone. We will, of course, make sure that does not happen. We just want that money. My assessment at the moment is that the Commission will say: we want to see additional reforms of the Netherlands, as we have demanded from the Italians, the Spaniards, the Greeks and the Portuguese. That is a bit of the knife that we are now falling into ourselves, namely only money in exchange for reforms. That's only good, so that's what I'm all for. I advocated that myself. But that also means that a few things really need to be discussed in a formation, also in the light of the country-specific recommendations. This is how I understood it in October. At least there has to be some kind of update: where are we? In any case, we must ensure that we are not too late. We're really gonna watch that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u211	I would like to touch on the point that Mr Jetten also raised: what is the room for manoeuvre that we have in the discussions on the budget? The SGP has also expressed concerns about defence, for example, and also about the energy bill for families: watch out for what is happening there. We would also like to take steps in the landlord tax. And it's nice that the care pay can be raised. For example, we will certainly consider what further investment can be made and what necessary expenditure needs to be made. But there is also another side, when I look at the CPB reports and at the Council of State as the budgetary authority. They say: pay attention too, in the corona crisis you have unleashed all kinds of spending frameworks, expansionary fiscal policies. But we are also dealing with uncertainties, geopolitical uncertainties, and economic structural reinforcements are needed. So what are the anchors for budgetary policy? That is an assignment to a new cabinet, but also to all of us this year. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to go even further on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u212	I was trying to say that from a financial point of view, we must be careful not only to agree on expenditure but also on coverage. I did not suggest that there were no proposals for this coverage, but there must be majorities for that. That is why it was my idea, but yes, I am happy to give it for a better one; I am not saying that, on the basis of the initiative, you say from the three parties that are talking to Johan Remkes: can you at least make a proper adjustment to the budget from the initiative that Mrs Hermans has put forward here, but not as far as you might want if there is a missionary cabinet? Then you get the question whether the cabinet will make that change when a missionary negotiation is under way, or whether you will do it as a Chamber later. Then too, the discussion will always have to be conducted very carefully about how, hopefully, in a time between two missionary Cabinets, you will manage financially soundly, as I personally experience it and as it is decided in the government agreement of this cabinet. That coalition agreement is no longer there, so I think that also appeals to the restraint of all of us. What I am saying is, of course, based on a political view. There will then be very different political views on these coverages. Yeah, that's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u213	It is right for the Prime Minister to say, but what I am concerned about is that those rules are a little vague at the moment. On the one hand, because of the corona crisis, you have released a number of budgetary rules, and on the other hand it is said that a new cabinet still needs to establish clear anchors for budgetary policy. But what exactly do we do now? What's that room for manoeuvre? I would like to hear more from the cabinet about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u214	Ultimately, of course, you try to stick to the normal system as much as possible: the separation of income and expenditure, prudent fiscal policy and trying to stay within all Brussels standards. Those are the known parameters. Strictly speaking, they are less determined with the resignation of the cabinet, which is why it will also be a more joint responsibility to hold on to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u215	People like Prime Minister Rutte who have the arrogance not to carry out chamber motions must be punished immediately and acutely. I regret that I was not given the opportunity to put forward a motion of censure against him immediately. The Chamber thus shows itself as lambs; a lamb and not a lion. The only way to deal with someone like that is to punish it right away. He gets away with it now because the Chamber just says, "Well, okay, we'll talk about it tonight. There's gonna be another note. We're gonna file another motion. Maybe we'll talk about it in a budget." We'll let him get away with it. The room is lame and not a lion. I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following question: what has happened in the last hour, an hour and a half? In the last hour and a half, you have already had a potential vote of confidence in me, the leader of the largest opposition party, with your attitude to healthcare salaries. But not just from me. You have caused great irritation in the majority of the Chamber, in my own words. You have annoyed anyone here who has signed that motion, a majority of the Chamber, because you are not executing it. Mr Jetten just stood up to say: Mr Rutte, if we want to have some support from the Chamber with that minority office, please be a little more flexible with the dossiers that are still coming, which you are about to deal with, from housing to education to that. Then you bit him: I don't recognize myself in those words at all! You did; anyone can check. In other words, we've been at it for one hour, and you've been arguing with everyone. You have fought with everyone in one hour: with me as leader of the largest opposition party, with the rest of the Chamber by not carrying out the motion and with someone you are negotiating with. Again, I'm getting so tired of this. Things weren't working out yesterday and things aren't working out so well. When does the light light light on you that you need to adjust your behaviour, that you need to be a little more constructive, that you need to be a little more humble in the Chamber, or that you just need to stop? Every day I come here, you fight with people and nothing happens that is necessary for this country. That is a new cabinet that, after new elections, simply solves the problems or, as I see it, does not prefer a prime minister who takes the Chamber seriously and does not argue with everyone for an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u216	I believe that we had a very fundamental discussion about healthcare salaries. The good news is that they go up, in line with a wish of the majority of the Chamber, which the cabinet initially disagreed with. There is still a discussion on two issues, namely how the system of the Health Insurance Act works. We will come up with a letter on that. We hope to do so in this debate. I'll be in touch with the Secretary of State of the United States of America to see if we can do that. Next, the conflict concerns the question of what the coverage of the remaining part is. I have already told the Chamber that if the Chamber were to insist on corporate tax cover, we would do so. But I also said: is it not wise, in the light of the discussion yesterday, to look at that a little more broadly? I have heard various groups say: yes, it is not that strange. If tonight turns out that a majority wants it through corporation tax, we're gonna do it. But if it isn't because it's decided to do something else in a broader way, then we're going to do it. That's actually the only discussion we're having.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u217	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u218	I make a political comment and not a technical comment. I make a political remark, a serious comment, and I get a technical answer. My point was that today, during the first two hours of the General Political Reviews, during the first term of the government, you argued with everyone. You just reacted irritatedly to the chairman of the D66 group. You bit him with a bite and an arrogant tone: that is not my interpretation. Mr Jetten simply walked out of the room, while he had a very reasonable request, namely to come up with some more space in the coming time. You argued with the majority of the Chamber, who signed the motion. I believe that no one, or perhaps a few, who supported the motion... The majority of the Members and the groups who supported the motion feel a great deal of irritation about how you dealt with it. And you've also been arguing with... Well, who isn't? I would like to ask you again for some reflection. And then don't come back with a technical answer about the care salaries. You're standing right here. You are not humbled as a missionary cabinet. You've already had a motion of censure twice and the Chamber is missionary. You're hautain and arrogant. You send the Chamber into the woods and you fight with everyone. This way you don't conduct General Reviews as Demissionary Prime Minister. You don't! Then you are humble and then you serve the Chamber, especially if you still have the ambition to form a cabinet with the so-called broad middle. You're doing the opposite. You don't look like you're in the mood! If you don't feel like it, you should go and have someone else do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u219	No, I'm really excited. Mr Wilders knows that I always reflect on his feedback. I'm just trying to name the attempts I made in that hour and a half. I wasn't trying to annoy anyone, I was trying to outline what I think is sensible decision-making. First of all, you will see whether or not the wish in the motion for a resolution regarding the part financed by the Health Insurance Act is technically feasible or not. Secondly: is it really weird... I don't hear everyone saying that's weird. A large number of Members of Parliament have said: it is not that crazy to look at coverage today in the wider context. I have already said that the cabinet will eventually accept a majority in the Chamber with regard to that coverage, if it were to arise tonight or sometime next week. I'm not really worried that we're all fighting right now. In any case, we knew that the issue of healthcare salaries would be difficult, because, of course, the cabinet has been reacting to it for a very long time. We are doing this now, and I think that is good news. I promise Mr Wilders that I will be even happier in the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u220	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. Then we move on to the topic of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u221	I'm reopening the meeting. The Prime Minister is now on the subject of housing. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u222	There are very few, especially of the friends. I can only see Mr Jetten. It's getting dangerous now. Mr. Chairman. The people's housing. We're gonna get a little cheerier; I'm listening to the comments, of course. For the first point, I actually need Mr Heerma. That is why I will go to the questions of the Members sitting here, starting with the questions of the PvdA about the tension in the housing market. I think we've quickly convinced each other that it's serious. Of course, a lot has also happened in recent years to build and also to keep and improve homes affordable. I will not list all the measures. You know the discussion, including your room. However, I believe that we have heard in all the contributions yesterday that a great deal of work needs to be done in the coming years, over the next ten years. Almost every group has put this housing shortage as an important issue. That really requires a number of very fundamental choices. I really think you should see if there are any very large amendments or motions in this debate; then it could be done now. But normally these seem to me to be real building blocks that you look at in a broader consideration in a cabinet formation. That is how I would judge it politically, but also here: if there are motions today that go much further than today's amendments to the budget, and if they achieve a majority, then that is what it is, especially if they are amendments. So I do not think we need to convince each other of the importance, and we are all really convinced of the need to tackle this. This also has to do with Mr Heerma's point about ten times 100 million for ten years. Of course, this can also be pulled forward via cash slides. Just as with the billion we had in this cabinet period a few years ago, that could happen again. I think he also asked a similar question about the landlord tax: if it is reduced, could you bring it up? I think that's a little more complicated, I understand. That is technically very complicated, but if there were a majority in the Chamber in favour of abolishing the landlord's tax altogether, for example, that could also be done by Mrs Hermans or, listening to Mrs Hermans and the discussion about it, to reduce it, that would lead to an immediate improvement in the investment space for corporations. The abolition of the future tax obligation therefore translates directly into value, creating more lending space. Those corporations can then use that structural space immediately, in the short term, to bring forward projects. This will then be done through the budgets of the corporations. That is not strictly a matter that runs through the state budget. I myself think that this might also be a matter for the General Financial Reviews. When I went through this with my team this morning, it turned out that there were so many hooks and eyes on this that I thought: that might also be something for the General Financial Reviews. Mr President, I should like to pass on all the questions about housing. There's not a lot of them. Then maybe we'll have one bigger round right away. The question about homes for senior citizens has also been asked, of course, by Mrs Den Haan. Here too, we all see this tension on the housing market. For older people in particular, 40 million has been made available by the Cabinet to promote clustered housing for the elderly. We know that, of course, corporations are also committed to suitable forms of housing for the elderly. I believe that this will also have to be something in the context of an outstretched hand between the Chamber and the Cabinet in order to see what more needs to be done there in the light of the 2022 budget. For example, if you decided to reduce the landlord's tax or, in extreme, to abolish it, that would obviously give housing corporations the room. Then I would be very much in favour of what Mrs Hermans said about it yesterday, namely to give a number of concrete goals, for example, to build more for the elderly. So that could be part of that package. Mr. Chairman. Finally, priority for asylum seekers. The priority given to asylum seekers in housing was removed in 2017, which ended in 2017. Of course, it is also important that, if people are allowed to stay here, we should also try to get them into a home in one way or another, so that this integration can continue and they can also participate and contribute to society. Of course I understand the tensions there too, but if people stay in the azc's for too long and if this integration does not start, that is not good either. By the way, you can see that the perspective is not that all social housing is allocated to licence holders. You hear that sometimes, but it concerns 5% to 10% of the social housing: 5% to 10% of the social housing is granted to licence holders. That, Mr President, is just the point. I think we should look again at this in the second term, also on the basis of the motions. What are the proposals for, for example, the landlord levy? Because that was the main theme of the first term, if I have listened carefully to it. Is that landlord's tax abolished or reduced? How does that relate to the Hermans proposal? In any case, there are a number of technical notions about how you could use that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u223	There are some interruptions. First, Mr Heerma, then Mrs Den Haan, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Wilders, Mrs Simons and Mr Van Haga. First of all, Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u224	The Prime Minister has started his first term of reflection on having a vision and that there is overlap in the views of the parties. Now the Department of Living has been dissolved for a number of years. The minister at the time indicated that he was the first VVD member to make an entire department disappear. I wonder how the Prime Minister, given the crisis in the housing market, looks at this. Does he indeed see in his role as the outgoing Prime Minister that there should be an active housing policy again? I am not talking about specific measures, but simply about the intention to do so again, because it is necessary to combat the crisis that has arisen. That is my general question. My specific question is about the money. I believe that we have reduced the landlord's tax earlier and then created the opportunity to spend that money at once. I think that was in the budget in 2019, but I may be mistaken. The Prime Minister points out that if that is what Mr Heerma is proposing, we would do the same. But he also says there's hooks and eyes on it. Can he tell us where these problems are? Because I think that many of these problems can be solved by just making agreements with Aedes. I believe that Aedes would be prepared to do so, because I believe that this also has to do with a fair distribution between the housing corporations, because some have a lot of money, but can build little and so on. If Aedes is willing to make agreements to this effect, can you remove the objections the Minister raises against my proposal at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u225	Yes, I've checked the second suggestion with the minister who's about it now. She says: we have to check that carefully, but it seems to me that Mr Heerma has a route here. But I do want to be sure, because when I was preparing this this morning here I don't know all the details of this I understood that you are also involved in the supervision and lending of corporations. So let's take a look at that for a second. That is why I myself thought that this might be a little more fundamental, so that we can get back to it in the General Financial Reviews or in the BZK's budgetary treatment. On the first point, I say yes. I'd be personal for that. I think it is a good thing that we have more ministers in a next cabinet, too, to prevent people from... Anyway, I'll talk as a VVD guy. I've come back a little bit from the thought that a small government is also a small cabinet. The VVD is now for a strong government and now we are in favour of a strong cabinet. So that probably means more ministers as well. The question must be, but you must have it in the formation to cut, whether you should set up an entire ministry. That also takes a lot of work. You saw that when you set up the Ministry of Agriculture. Mrs Schouten has had her hands full with that. She managed to do that at a very rapid rate, but it is not everyone who has been given to lift an entire department out of the ground so quickly. But that you can look comprehensively at the whole population housing policy, for example in relation to the fiscal aspects of it, I can see completely. This is without prejudice to the fact that I believe that we have done a great deal in recent years. But much must be done in the coming years. We're just running a 1 million housing deficit towards 2030. You can also see, for example, at the insanely beautiful G4 dinner that I attended a few weeks ago, if I may say so, the ambition of the municipalities of Amsterdam, Utrecht, Rotterdam and The Hague to launch a huge housing production. You also see what Groningen, Friesland and Drenthe want to do together. If you put that together, it makes me very hopeful that it can work. So the answer to question one is yes. And the answer to question two is: mjah, we find out and we figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u226	I actually heard a "mjah" in the first part of the answer, because the Prime Minister says he is in favour of more departments. But that wasn't my question. My question was whether he shares that, given the enormous housing crisis that has arisen, it is necessary for the government to resume a policy of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u227	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u228	Okay. Do you also share that housing alone is not enough? That is why I believe that we need to look at the creation of a department. It is also about spatial planning. There are also major links with environmental issues. You'll get back to VROM. But you'll really...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u229	Plus the tax side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u230	That's what's going on. It's going to be a conversation instead of a debate. But it is a good thing that the Prime Minister confirms here that he too believes that there should be active housing policy from the government. Then about the other part. We expressed many wishes here in the Chamber yesterday about what we think should be done in the short term. I have made it very clear that my group's headquarters are number one priority. I made the suggestion to see if you could raise that money, which in my memory also happened in 2019, because this is a way to free up a lot of money in the short term. That creates more room for all kinds of wishes that live in the Chamber. "We have to look at it" and that "mjah" is just not good enough. When it comes to weighing up on behalf of my group, I need to know whether it is so much 100 million or that it is so much billion. That's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u231	For that 100 million...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u232	I'll put your sound back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u233	For that 100 million, times 10 is 1 billion: yes, anyway. The question was whether you could bring forward the reduction in the landlord's tax, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u234	Again, my memory is not flawless, but I think we did this with the rental tax in 2019. I think that's when 1 billion was earmarked. The Prime Minister now refers to the 100 million that can be drawn forward for extending the housing deals. But in my memory, we did the same in 2019 at the exit on the landlord's tax. Then it's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u235	Again, that 100 million... yet even, that 10 times 100 million, 1 billion: anyway. We're gonna find out if we can cut the landlord's tax. I just don't know. So Mr. Heerma's suggestion... if he wants to hear from me now, we might be at risk. Mrs Ollongren can find out for a moment and then give me a note as to whether that is technically possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u236	In this term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u237	In this period. In the next 15 minutes. She's gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u238	And I agree that it should not be a conversation, but a debate. Mrs. Den Haan was on my card earlier, but as Mrs. Ploumen... Mrs. Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u239	Thank you to Mrs Den Haan, because I also had a question about the landlord tax. Mr Heerma is talking about lowering. Yesterday, I proposed abolishing this landlord's tax, for the same reason as the outgoing Prime Minister, namely that the abolition of the landlord's tax would make more affordable housing available in the short term. My question to him is: does he see the possibility of doing so? Because that would be a measure according to his heart: in one blow big result, many available homes for the people who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u240	Yes. But, I say, that's something that also requires cover. That is, of course, a very large amount of money. Then, of course, comes the discussion about how you do that. Then I think we should wait for the second deadline to see what the proposals are. I think yesterday, from the proposal I heard from the three forming parties, the idea was to take a more modest step, in the light of that billion. Mrs Ploumen said at the time: I may want to go much further. Then I would say: let's see what statements the Chamber makes tonight. The cabinet will, of course, respond to this as soon as possible. But I'm not married to that landlord tax. It came in the previous cabinet, because then we were in a serious crisis... what's the matter? I don't know what to laugh about. It came in the previous cabinet, because then we were dealing with a huge crisis and on all sides... We had to bend a total of 51 billion, weigh up burdens, and that was what this was in. But of course it is not the case that the landlord levy was the dreamed instrument of any party. It is only the abolition that costs money, of course. That's the balance: what are you doing in scarcity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u241	Of course. The outgoing Prime Minister knows that the Labour Party always has solid cover, so we have it for this too. We'll cover that with an increase in the income tax. I am sure we will be able to talk about this. It was a crisis measure that should have been abolished a few years ago, but we now have a chance. Mr President, if Mrs Den Haan will allow me, I would like to ask one more supplementary question. Last year, a Housing Fund was set up to provide neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods that need it with additional financial resources to make neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods more liveable and liveable. My proposal is to set up the Housing Fund for 2022. We would have liked to do that in the longer term. That should be put in the formation, but it doesn't get anywhere. The question is: is the Prime Minister prepared to extend the Housing Fund by one year? That costs EUR 450 million, with the same coverage. That's where a motion comes in. I'd say just say yes, then it's settled in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u242	I can answer yes to the question whether it is useful. I also see the Secretary of State say that. This also applies again: careful, otherwise I get into a fight with Van der Staaij and others. The bill's starting to run up pretty good...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u243	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u244	And if I go back to the initiative with the three forming parties, to which Mrs Ploumen is of course not bound in any way, to see if you can make a more modest move in the light of that billion, this goes far beyond it. But I really have to leave that to the Chamber. Otherwise, I'll be the party pooper right here. So you're just gonna have to take a look at how you're doing that. Otherwise, I'm gonna get Mr. Jetten mad at the interrupting microphone here, and I don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u245	I would like to present to the outgoing Prime Minister whether he prefers to argue with Mr Van der Staaij or with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u246	This is a question of conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u247	Sure, yeah. That 450 million means a lot to a lot of people. It means that houses are being improved, but also that safety in neighbourhoods is being worked on. It seems to me a sensible move to do so, now that there is a chance for this missionary House of Representatives. I just wanted to give that to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u248	By letting someone go first, you run the risk of getting the grass cut off in front of your feet. But that doesn't matter at all, because we have a common interest. We talked yesterday about the enormous problems in the housing market. We've mainly talked about numbers. I am glad that Mr Heerma indicates that it is going wider. I received an app this morning from Martin van Rijn, you know, who also indicated to me that we should look more broadly. It is also about housing locations, sustainability and well-being. Aedes has offered 34 other organisations a beautiful report, living the action plan. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister about the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u249	With the whole plan of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u250	Yes, with the whole action plan, because it's really a fantastic report that you could take one-on-one. I understand that the 1 billion, the ten times 100 million, could be brought forward. Housing corporations want to invest 138 billion. It's gonna take another $2 billion. We have a billion dollars. The landlord's tax goes down. Maybe it is still a tip to get that in the context of the European Recovery Fund. I would like to know what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u251	I don't know, because your question wasn't asked in the first term. I'm not that detailed. So I'm going to come back to this in second place. You lost me in a dark forest. We're gonna dive in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u252	So in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u253	If it's all right with you, maybe we can go back to Heerma. Is he still out there? No? I'll do it later. I had a stand-in on his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u254	There are still a number of interruptions. Do you agree that Mr Azarkan should go a little earlier? Mr Klaver and Mr Wilders followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u255	Is it still a crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u256	Well, not economically. But, of course, there are still after-effects of a health crisis with major psychological consequences. Many companies still have to recover from the serious corona crisis we have had for one and a half years. But in itself, of course, we are in good shape economically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u257	But the landlord levy was set in crisis time. Then in 2018 and 2019 we had a surplus on the balance sheet. Then why is the landlord levy, the crisis measure, still there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u258	This has to do with the normal budgetary system, with the revenue and expenditure frameworks, the separation between them and agreements on expenditure ceilings. That means you can't just take back everything you've done before. Unfortunately. Those are really political choices that you have to make in the scarcity of other considerations. So if you decided to take the whole landlord's tax off, there's got to be cover for that, too, I guess. At least I'd think it was wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u259	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u260	This is kind of weird. You're inventing a measure that takes 2 billion euros away from social housing from the corporations. It has already been said that this is going to be dramatic. In the years after it was introduced, we saw that social housing fell by 10,000 to 11,000 homes. It's just VVD policy to make that as small as possible. I know they're not in favour of social housing and they think there's way too much money in it. We introduce a measure in crisis time because we believe that this is necessary because of the crisis and that everyone has to contribute, but then it turns out to be a standard measure, a structural measure. Then my question is, when will it come off?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u261	If we make that political decision and have a cover for it. By the way, I am really in a liberal tradition myself, also of big building aldermen of Amsterdam from by the way social Democrats, like Wibaut, who had some ideals, namely firstly that the policeman and the nurse can live in the city and secondly that you build nicely. So I'm not an opponent at all, nor am I my party of housing corporations and social housing. Only, do it in such a way that you actually achieve what you want to achieve, namely that the people on a very normal salary do not have to travel from Purmerend to Amsterdam or from Voorburg to The Hague, unless they like Voorburg very much, but that they can also live in The Hague. And two: that you build beautifully and that you build buildings and houses for the longer term. It was of course the tradition in the Netherlands, especially in the twenties and thirties, to build beautifully. So that's my opinion. So I'm not against social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u262	No, we're really doing the interruptions in threes and there are still quite a few...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u263	But it's a very short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u264	Well, the last one, but very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u265	On the liberal tradition that Mr Rutte talked about: in which city can you buy a house as a nurse or as a police officer, let alone a beautiful home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u266	That is a very big problem now in the Netherlands. That is exactly what we are discussing these days. How do you make sure that enough is being built and how do you make sure that that is also important for me to see that it is beautifully built? Also after the war there are very good examples of beautiful housing projects where you put something that is not for 30 or 40 years, but for the long term, which is also environmentally pleasant with all modern recycling techniques applied to it. But that is exactly the problem that we now have in the Netherlands, that we have a problem about housing, which we all experience as an issue, and of which we all say: we have to add a million more homes between now and the end of this decade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u267	The question was a little more targeted, namely which cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u268	No, this isn't. That's exactly the problem. I say that is what I think, that we have that view and that then we all radiate that ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u269	I shall then give the floor to Mr Klaver, then to Mr Wilders, Mrs Simons, Mr Van Haga, Mrs Marijnissen and then to Mr Jetten, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u270	I don't have any questions about the landlord's tax. That's what the Chamber is about. So tonight we can vote on that and see if there is a majority in favour of abolishing it. I have good hopes, also heard the debate yesterday. However, the housing crisis is about much more. I am therefore curious about Mr Rutte's reflection on this. Normally I would have asked this at the formation table, but well, he didn't want to sit there with me, so I ask him here in this room. It is also so refreshing that we are talking about the content here. The problems in the housing market have arisen over the last ten years while he was Prime Minister. The rents have risen by 35%. Stef Blok sold out the social housing and other housing stock by traveling to Singapore and trying to sell it. Can the Prime Minister reflect on the past ten years of housing policy of his cabinets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u271	I think we have taken important steps, but there is still a great deal to be done. By the way, I would love to be in a cabinet with Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u272	Too bad, Lilianne Ploumen and so am I. We have the same commitment. Everything I say now, I say on behalf of the Labour Party, because we find it exactly the same. Then we could get on with each other. But it's also nice to discuss it here with each other. You're killing yourself a little too easy. You say we've done a lot already. Yes, you've done a lot. There has been a landlord's tax, social housing has been sold massively, rents have increased by 35%. This has not just happened by accident, it has been an active policy of this cabinet, by selling houses to speculators. And so my question is: is Mr Rutte prepared to leave the next period that liberal thinking really at home and put a bigger role for the government there, to tackle speculators firmly and to ensure that house milkers are no longer the first to buy a home but that they go to starters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u273	Yes. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u274	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u275	That's good. So that means, if I understand correctly, that we're going to make sure that the tax that speculators are paying on all that rent revenue goes up sharply. It means that we can change the housing valuation system so that there will be a maximum rent. Because you see now, especially in the big cities, that the rents explode, because those cottage milkers can ask what they want. This means that we are going to check even better whether this system is being complied with. That's good. That's absolute profit. Let's get started on that very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u276	I fully agree with the policy objectives that Klaver has just outlined. That requires of both of us, if we were to be in such a cabinet in a moment, that we would be prepared not to think from our own sacred cottages for a moment, figuratively, I say this here about what GroenLinks has been calling for 30 years about the housing market or what the VVD has been calling for 30 years about the housing market, but that we say to each other: let's take a day in such a formation and make a deep analysis of the problems. And from that analysis, we're looking at what steps we need to take to eventually realize that housing, to ensure that those rents remain affordable, and that people with very normal jobs that are extremely important to our society in education, in care, in the police can also live in the cities. I believe that this is the common message; then I am prepared to give up all the sacred houses for a while, but if Mr Klaver also wants to do so, because it will then come to me with a number of well-known themes. And maybe you need a few of them, I'm not ruling that out at all. But I would also like to challenge him: let's just do it with an empty piece of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u277	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u278	Mr. Chairman. Now a minority cabinet of the VVD and GroenLinks is being proposed, it is becoming more complex here in this room. There's no formation, so let's not pretend it's gonna start next week. Then let's do it here. Challenge me. Where do you think I should come back to what you say: this is such a sacred little house, this is something you should think differently about? Challenge me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u279	I think that, if you're going to have that discussion a little bit more at the heart of the matter, you should talk about how do you achieve that affordable rent, how do you achieve that enough is being built, how do you ensure that enough is being built for the private sector? You want people with a slightly higher income to be able to go to a rental house, that they are not all forced to go to properties. You have to make sure that that tension goes off in that housing market. I believe that we are all very much in agreement on these objectives. Then I would like to say that from the instruments you have to see what works and what doesn't. But why don't you start with that analysis of the problem? Of course, it was also said yesterday in the first term of the Chamber by several parties, including my party, that your views of the past on how you deal with people who have a lot of houses, the relocating of houses where no people are going to live, should all be considered fundamentally. Then I am not criticizing Mr Klaver, on the contrary, I am more prepared to put everything on the table, but really everything, if he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u280	I give Mr Klaver the floor because you are also addressing Mr Klaver directly, but please do so briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u281	Mr President, I understand that you say that, but let me also praise the fact that this is really about the content...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u282	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u283	... and that this is a nice debate on fundamental questions of the housing market. Again, and that is not annoying, but if you say: leave those sacred houses at home, I can say that we leave them at home. You have to want to talk about everything. But I mentioned a number of solutions that I think are really needed. It's not like I've never thought about that housing market before. We've made plans for that. We've done an analysis on that. So that's why I challenge you, when you say "it's so difficult to talk to you, because you still have all kinds of taboos" - what taboo should I leave at home? 'Cause then I'll know. That is actually what I am asking for in a very specific way. It seems to me so nice, I say finally, that we do not necessarily have to discuss this at the formation table or somewhere afterwards. Here in this room, everyone can listen to what taboos I have to leave behind and what taboos you have to leave behind. Then perhaps today you can take some steps. I have made concrete proposals and it would be a good idea if you could deal with those four or five proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u284	At least let me put my hand into my own bosom. One of the things my party naturally attaches very much to is the number of cars per house. I myself have made a lot of work visits to construction projects, for example in Utrecht. There you see that if you do manage to build inner city by public transport and with good bike paths and bicycle connections, and you release the traditional standards about how many cars there must be on a home, you can realize fantastic projects. I'll stay off the VVD, so I'll let people have a car. But it's okay if you stop setting these houses and standards so tightly together. Those are just things you can learn from practice. Then you can realize beautiful projects. What's the name of that neighborhood in Utrecht, Kajsa? Sorry, I went there with Stientje van Veldhoven, not with Kajsa Ollongren. That was with Stientje. Anyway, that was one of those visits that I think put your own thinking back into question. Well, that's him. Furthermore, I think: not every house owner who has more than two or three houses is a wrong speculator. Not that Mr. Klaver said that. Sometimes you have to watch how you deal with it when people use houses as investments. Then how can you ensure that these investments are attractive to that investor, but also remain at the service of the people's housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u285	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Wilders and then to Mrs Simons. Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u286	One of the biggest injustices is the fact that on the housing market Dutch people are extremely long on the waiting list, because asylum seekers, who are called status holders when they get a permit, are given priority over a social rental house. That's what I said yesterday in my term. I think that is so unfair that yesterday I tabled an initiative legislative proposal on behalf of Mr Alexander Kops. I would nevertheless like to have a reflection from the Prime Minister on this, particularly because we have a huge housing shortage in the Netherlands. Everyone knows that, and we are right to talk about it. It is considered so unfair that people who have not paid taxes and contributions all their lives here simply get priority. We took that out of that law in 2017, when status holders were a mandatory category that was given priority in the Housing Act. It now appears that the majority of municipalities which have priority schemes still give priority to asylum seekers, without a legal basis. You can laugh about it, but a lot of people watching now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u287	I'm not laughing at you. I laughed at something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u288	Okay, sorry. We really get hundreds of e-mails from Dutch people who are on the waiting list for years and are passed in one go, because status holders go first. That is incredibly unjust. Of course, you are not already discussing our own initiative law, but I would like to have a reflection from the cabinet on whether you agree with me that this is unfair and that we should remove that priority for asylum seekers, so that they are no longer ahead of the Dutchman who is also on that waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u289	It was the Merwede Canal Zone. That's what I was laughing at. Mrs Ollongren had discovered this in my debate with Jesse Klaver. Then I'm going back to this point. In 2017, this priority was removed. It is therefore no longer an obligation to give priority to a social housing unit to a status holder. It was taken off in 2017. That's one. Two is that currently 5% to 10% of social housing is allocated to licence holders. That is still a significant percentage, but it is not the case that the majority of the homes go to status holders, as Mr Wilders says a little bit. That is simply not true. With that, I think this bill is not working very well. What would be more profitable would be if we built more social housing. Refugees will also come to the Netherlands in the coming years. That is what we are for, provided that those numbers are manageable and that they are genuine refugees who depend on our protection. You don't want them to stay in the azc's for too long, for all kinds of reasons, also because that doesn't promote integration into society. It is therefore important that they can eventually go to a cottage. But right now, it's 5% to 10% of social housing. So it is not that impression that Mr Wilders is now solving the whole problem of the social housing in the Netherlands. There's got to be more building.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u290	The best solution would of course be to make sure, besides building new houses, that those people do not come to the Netherlands. That is, of course, the best solution. There was a time when your party, the VVD, felt the same way. Now you're more on Merkel's line sit down. Come on in! Oh, and we've got a problem. About that 5% to 10%. Since the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister, since 2010, 208,084 social housing has gone to asylum seekers. According to the Minister himself, 1.7 asylum seekers per home are concerned. This means that 122,402 homes have been transferred to status holders since 2010. In the 11 years you've been Prime Minister, 122,402 homes have gone to status holders. Of course, those 122,000 homes should have gone to the Dutch. I saw a report about Zoetermeer, where the municipality said last year: we have built 112 new homes over the last two years. At the same time, these are not those houses, but that's the total of 109 homes in that municipality went to status holders. In those two years, I'll just mention it as an example: 112 homes were built in Zoetermeer and 109 homes went to status holders. That is so unfair. It is so incredibly unfair to the people of the Netherlands. Yesterday, a lady said, "There's a status holder coming in here. He's got a fat BMW right away, pulls his whole family over and gets a nice place. My son's in place 262 on a 750-year-old waiting list. He has lived here all his life, paid taxes and contributions, but must now stand in line at the back." It has been taken out of the law, but municipalities are exactly what I said, but you didn't listen to it, because you repeat what I said. They're still using it. Most of the municipalities still apply the rule we have taken out of the law. That's not 5% to 10%, but there are, as I said, over 100,000. So do you think that we should stop doing this and say that our homes go first to our own people, not to asylum seekers, but to our own Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u291	This is an issue with many aspects and facets. I think Mr Wilders is narrowing it too much. He actually says: close the border for asylum seekers. I'm against that. I believe that the Netherlands should continue to provide shelter in numbers that are manageable for Dutch society to people who depend on our protection. We do this in numbers that society can handle. In 2015 and 2016, these were numbers that society could not cope with. That is why we have also taken far-reaching measures and have been able to fight for Syrian refugees in the region in Turkey. But under normal circumstances, if the numbers are manageable, I believe that a civilised country like the Netherlands should be open to receiving asylum seekers. Again, that must be in numbers that are manageable. It also includes the fact that once they are allowed to stay here, you ensure that they can participate in society. I agree with Wilders that is the next aspect of this: that you want to prevent it from being at the expense of other people in the Netherlands who depend on such a social housing. The only solution to this is to add more. The solution is not to leave the asylum seeker in the azc or the Dutchman who needs a cottage at home with his parents. No, the solution is to build more. If you then look at the numbers of people living in the Netherlands, that's my argument against Wilders.You can see that not all social housing in the Netherlands goes to asylum seekers. It concerns 5% to 10% of the social housing. That is still a significant percentage, but that is not what he seems to suggest, namely more than half or perhaps even three quarters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u292	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u293	Finally, nothing at all. I need answers to my questions. You must not include an answer and then take an interruption from me if I do not get an answer to the questions. I asked a specific question. There are 122,000 homes that have gone to status holders since you became Prime Minister. I didn't; you did. I didn't let them in; you let them in. Nor is it something you can say "we must prevent" as you say. No, it's already happening. There are a lot of people watching television now who have a son or daughter or they are themselves, it is a family member or anyone who has to wait a long time while they see that a status holder is ahead. I asked you the specific question: do you agree with me in principle that we should legally regulate that status holders should no longer be given priority in those homes and that they should not go for Dutch people on that waiting list? Of course, you're right; I'd rather they didn't come here, but I'm not suggesting that now. I now propose that they no longer be given priority in the allocation of housing. Do you agree with me? Status holders are no longer given priority. We are creating an initiative law to delete it and to ban these municipalities from giving them a priority position even though it is not in the law. It's about making that legally impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u294	Yes, but then Mr Wilders agrees with me that it has been nationwide since 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u295	The first sentence that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u296	Excuse me. Do you want to hear the answer or not? Then Mr Wilders agrees with me that it is national. He wants to intervene in the municipalities now. Then I would say: let's get a lot of VVDs in those city councils to make that kind of sensible proposals. We do not need national legislation for that. So, again, we are talking about 5% to 10% of the social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u297	You're standing here as the Prime Minister. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u298	Yeah, sorry, excuse. Then let's take care of a lot of wise councilmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u299	Those aren't VVDs on balance. The VVDs let those people into the country. But apart from that, I conclude that the Prime Minister answers my questions... I hope the people at home register this properly. Yesterday and today, I said a few times: who are you representing, Mr. Prime Minister? Do you represent our own people, our own Dutch people, our own elders, our own families, our own people on the waiting list? Or do you say that we give priority to people who do not come from the Netherlands and who come here and should be given priority in a social housing unit? That's antisocial. You were chosen not by those people, but by the Dutch people. The Prime Minister says: I will not change that; we will only build more. Well, it's great that you're building more, but anyone who's been on a waiting list for years, ten, twelve, sometimes seventeen years now, now knows that it's a conscious choice of Mark Rutte to allow them to come last and that Dutch people lag behind status holders. I think that's horrible. This is another example, Mr. Prime Minister; you just shouldn't be Prime Minister. You represent everyone except the people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u300	Really, Chairman, quatsch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u301	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u302	I would like to respond to Mr Wilders, because this is a serious allegation. I want to be there for anyone in the Netherlands who's allowed to be here legally. That is every Dutchman who lives here and that is also an asylum seeker who has a legal status here. Mr Wilders sets up the people who are legally resident here against the Dutch who are difficult to get to a house and who also want access to a social housing, as if all those who are waiting for a social housing are being put in the way of asylum seekers. It just isn't. The figures, 5% to 10%, show that. Two. I think it's up to those municipalities. The municipalities no longer have a national obligation to give priority to asylum seekers. I am in favour of that, but it is also up to municipal councils to decide. This also has to do with the unique situation in such a municipality. I'm not in favour of restricting municipal freedom. By the way, if Geert Wilders comes up with a bill, we will of course relate to that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u303	Mrs Simons van BER1 and then Mr Van Haga of the Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u304	It is a special debate. I finally hear the Prime Minister explain to me once and for all that people who have acquired rights here, who hold status, have the same rights as Dutch people. I find that remarkable and very pleasant. I heard Mr Heerma plead for a Minister of Housing. That's a great idea. I think that is what we need, because it is not just about living, but, as Mrs Ploumen said, it is also about infrastructure, about building good neighbourhoods and organising a good living environment. So those are all good messages. Then I hear that there is room to think about abolishing the landlord's tax, also very good news. However, what I referred to in my contribution and have not yet heard the outgoing Prime Minister react to here is the invitation to do so, which is the cost-sharing standard. That is precisely one of those instruments that currently occupies houses, because it prevents people from living together, because it is simply a fine on sharing a house. We could create space on the housing market if we abolish the cost-sharing standard. This would also put an end to the appalling situations that parents should choose to evict their children or to ban them from their homes, otherwise they would be fined. My first question is whether the Prime Minister can come back to the cost-sharing standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u305	The cabinet has no intention of abolishing it. I think there are good arguments for the cost-sharing standard. Moreover, all such measures and legislation are, of course, subject to disadvantages as well as benefits. Mrs Simons is right to point out this disadvantage. I can see that, but the cabinet has no intention of changing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u306	No, I got that. As I said in my contribution, the word 'cost sharing standard' does not appear at all in the Millions note and in the cabinet's plans. So the cabinet itself doesn't have the insight that it's a good idea, I figured that out. Mr Rutte states here that there are also advantages to this scheme. I don't see them. I see a fine on living together that mainly ends up with people who have already fallen into a vulnerable position, because they are dependent on benefits. I would therefore ask Mr Rutte to answer the question more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u307	Again, the cabinet has no intention of changing anything about that. There are good reasons why the cost sharing standard is there. Of course, this also has to do with the seizure of the state budget of social security expenditure and with a degree of honesty: how do you ensure that this large item of expenditure is properly distributed? Indeed, I fully recognise with Mrs Simons that a disadvantage of this is being addressed by her. There is, without a doubt. But I think that, on balance, the arguments for the cost-sharing standard outweigh the arguments. That is my view and that of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u308	But I just haven't heard any advantage yet. Mr Rutte keeps saying: there are advantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u309	That's what I just said. That has to do with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u310	Then what are the benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u311	Mrs Simons has the floor. And that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u312	I just really want to know what these benefits are. The cover to which Mr Rutte refers is a legitimate point. But that cover is very easy to find. There are a lot of measures that we can take. When it comes to the fair distribution of charges: buyers have many advantages; see the mortgage interest deduction, which should not be affected. Why should low-income tenants be punished? If we really want to combat fraud, then I think we can also focus our efforts on tax evasion, which we all know will cost the Netherlands about 1 million to 3 million, when it comes to tax evasion in companies. So the cover, I'm sure we'll figure it out. These are figures that can be supported by scientific research. But my question remains: what are the major benefits, so the benefits that outweigh the disadvantages when it comes to the cost sharing standard? We talked in the previous block about finance, about security of living, about income. The abolition of the cost-sharing standard is a fantastic way to free up more homes, but also to relieve people who, unfortunately, are already in a somewhat difficult financial situation. So what are the disadvantages that outweigh the benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u313	The cost-sharing standard has been introduced, as it also restricts the seizure of social security. I think that's reasonable, too. We have a very nice social security system in the Netherlands. I think that after Sweden and perhaps with Denmark, it is one of the most elaborate and safest social security systems in our world. This also goes with a rich country like the Netherlands. The cost sharing standard has been introduced, including in order to ensure that the amount of these funds is somewhat limited. Of course, every measure you take has its drawbacks, too. That's the way it is in politics. Some people do go out because they are afraid to fall the cost-sharing standard otherwise. But considering everything, I still think it's wise to maintain. That is my argument for the cost-sharing standard and I realise that Mrs Simons feels differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u314	We're doing interrupts in threes. You disagree, but there are still a lot of interruptions, so I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u315	It's not a matter of disagreement!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u316	Mr President, one last attempt. Mrs Simons doesn't think I'm answering the question. She asked me why I am in favour of the cost-sharing standard. I'll try, but let me... please, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u317	Mrs Simons, Mr Rutte is addressing you right now, so you will have the opportunity to respond again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u318	Listen. I believe that this is a genuine difference of opinion. I am in favour of the cost-sharing standard because it entails a restriction. I also think it wise to say from the national finances that you have this very generous social security in the Netherlands, and this is a way of restricting access to social security. That was the view of a political majority when that cost sharing standard was established. The cabinet does not intend to change that now either. Mrs Simons is right to point the finger at a disadvantage. There is, also in the light of housing. She asks me what my conclusion is when I consider that disadvantage and why I'm in favour. My view would be that the benefits still outweigh the disadvantages. So I'm gonna find out why she's getting mad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u319	Well, you know, it's pretty frustrating that three interruptions are needed to get answers to one question. That doesn't just apply to me, you hear that from the Chamber more often. That's a tactic that trains the work of the Chamber. There may be a difference of opinion, but I am asking very specific questions about the advantages that outweigh the disadvantages. We have a tight housing market, growing poverty, people who are in a lot of trouble and a lot of problems with implementation organisations. Then we have a prime minister who says, "We've all done such a fantastic job here." Ask those people who suffer from that cost-sharing standard. This is not a question of opinion, it is simply a question of giving a very concrete answer to the question of whether the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. Taking stock of social security finances is not an argument, because money can be found in other ways. I said that on purpose at the beginning of my question, so that I would not have an answer such that it could not be otherwise. What makes us, with the cut on the housing market and the need to give people more financial breathing space, have to stick to a cost-sharing standard, which maintains the cut on the housing market and punishes people with low incomes and benefits for having that benefit? What makes us say to that: do you have your own house, then you can benefit from mortgage interest deduction? That's not a difference of opinion. It's just not an answer to the question. These are the advantages 1, 2 and 3, and they outweigh the disadvantages 1, 2 and 3; that's the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u320	This really is a difference of opinion. Mrs Simons says that there is another way to solve the issue of the seizure of public funds. I don't agree with her. You also need to look a little at the whole rich budget. Health care goes to about 100 billion. All social security goes to 75, 80 billion. You have to make sure that money is also left for the other major public issues relating to education, defence, security and all other matters to be financed from the state budget. Social security and health care should not be like cuckoo boys pushing other spending out of the nest. You can't solve all that by taping into new sources of money. You'll always have to make choices in that scarcity. From that postulate, I find it highly justifiable that a number of years ago it was decided to set up a standard, where people together form a household. I acknowledge with Mrs Simons that there are also disadvantages. I can see that, but I think that advantage weighs heavily. You can't solve that through an external source of funding. That's what we really disagree about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u321	The declaration of love of the VVD just to the old communists of GroenLinks triggered me a little bit. I miss the old right-wing VVD, the capitalism embraced VVD by Wiegel and Bolkestein. I kind of said that in my first term too. I don't really understand why the VVD is cooperating in releasing the freedom of the individual and embracing some sort of collectivism. You can especially see that in the housing market. There's no market anymore. I would have liked the Prime Minister to return the market to that file. There is no longer a market at the moment, because the supply and demand sides are no longer in proportion to each other. There has been a huge increase in demand due to migration. Mr Wilders has just said something about this. The government can of course also do something through the corporations. There is now a large majority in favour of abolishing that stupid landlord tax. The market must come back at some point. I asked a question about that, but you didn't answer it. Isn't it good to look at land issues as well, at permits and through-times, so that everything gets a little easier and the market gets moving again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u322	The Prime Minister. Mr Klaver, I think Mrs Ploumen was on a point of order earlier, but she made Mr Van Haga very neatly before him because he had been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u323	But it's about this. I feel a little uncomfortable about this. Here is someone with many pawns in his wallet, a cottage milker, who asks questions about the housing market. If that's not a conflict of interest... If you have a business interest in this yourself, I find this highly inappropriate. I would like to consider Mr Van Haga just sitting down. That's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u324	I am giving Mr Van Haga a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u325	I am indeed an entrepreneur, so I have to settle my pension myself. I did that by buying some real estate. As for the rest, everyone here has interests. We all have kids and we all have a mortgage. Maybe not Mr. Klaver, but then he's probably in a social rental house and he's talking about that too. You probably live somewhere; you have a house. We all have interests, so don't talk to me about this. I think you were triggered by the remark that the Communists are now called Green Left. That's right, and we'll see it again now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u326	No, it's about something completely different. Fortunately, most of us do live in a house. You're not an entrepreneur. You're a Member of Parliament. You're building a royal pension on this, so don't be pathetic by saying you don't have a pension. You admit here that you have a full real estate portfolio. You call yourself an entrepreneur, but I say you're a cottage milker. I would suggest to you that you have a direct business interest in the questions you are asking. Please sit down. Then you would do this Chamber more justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u327	Again, we all have interests. The question is to what extent these interests are so great that you allow them to be considered. I'm proud to be an entrepreneur. I hope that Mr Klaver will be able to do the same, so that he can experience what it is like when a market is disturbed. Moreover, I think that most landlords have risked that the housing market has been so disturbed by, among other things, all the left-wing measures. Anyway, let's keep going where we left off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u328	I'll answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u329	Yeah, exactly. It was about the land issues, the permit routes and the lead times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u330	I share Mr Van Haga's view that all this should be as unbureaucratic as possible. This also brings with it the always sensitive question of direction. Where's the direction? Is there also a need for more national direction on these issues? You see in different parties, including my party, a shift in thinking. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u331	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u332	I have another point, namely that the government does not actually build houses and does not pay them either. This is done by market players, and that is very good. If you embrace capitalism, our beautiful land is built on it, and that's what happens. But the investment climate in the Netherlands is getting worse and that is also a bit because the government constantly comes up with different rules. Do you agree with me that in the coming cabinet period we should at least assume that everything remains stable and that the government is reliable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u333	Reliable, yes, but we are the politicians. It is inevitable that decisions will be taken in the political sphere on social organisation issues and that legislation will take place. Moreover, the biggest supporters of free enterprise production and a capitalist organization of the market, which I myself belong to, is that there must be a strict market master. There must be strict market masters. If there aren't, then markets can go terribly wrong. The housing market is an example of a place where things can go wrong. See also my previous discussion with Mr Klaver. I heard that in yesterday's debate too. If a number of things are not properly organized from the market organisation and from the market mastery, then there can also be major abuses. That is certainly true if this affects a public good or even a constitutional obligation; in my view Mr Omtzig referred to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u334	I would like to give Mrs Ploumen the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u335	We are having a debate on the Millions Note, but I see that the Minister of Finance has not been in subject-K for a long time. I think it is right that he should take note of the debate in the House of Representatives. Perhaps there is a plausible reason, but we do not know it. Otherwise, I'd like to see him back in "K."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u336	Thank you. He signed off on me because he needed to have a meeting. I think it's okay if the signal's sent out, but he signed off on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u337	I have two more answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u338	There are still a number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u339	Oh, sorry. Otherwise, I'll have two more responses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u340	It is good if one of our colleagues can get to the Minister of Finance. I still have some interruptions. After that, I'd like to suspend for lunch. There are more and more people coming in, but I really want to see if we can narrow it down a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u341	Before Mr. Heerma thinks, "Where is it?': I'm gonna have to give him an answer later. I also owe Mr Omtzigt an answer on the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u342	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u343	So I'd like to come back for lunch on those two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u344	A point of order: should the Prime Minister not first give those two answers, so that we do the interruptions afterwards? Otherwise, we're gonna interrupt, we're gonna answer and then we're gonna interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u345	That's right. I think the Prime Minister also intended to answer your question, but he didn't see you at the time. That's why he kept the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u346	Yeah, that's what I did nicely. You were out of the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u347	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u348	We just figured it out. Also in 2019 there was that billion. That was then through a discount on the landlord's tax on new buildings. At that time, there was a lot of work to be done on that. That involved 150,000 homes and over 2 billion. That's when the deal was concluded. In this sense, therefore, there was coherence. Then the question remains whether you can also bring forward a reduction in the landlord's tax "closing'. There's gonna be a little... that's possible. Okay, the answer to that is now that you can. Mr Omtzigt, I would like to say that we are going to set up this committee to investigate the social minimum for different types of households. The question of whether the social minimum should actually be reviewed is, of course, then a political consideration, but the results of that committee can then be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u349	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen and then to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u350	It's an interesting living debate. I think we are also a bit witnessed here by a classic Runt turn. For ten years in the Netherlands the right of residence has been abolished under Rutte I, II and III. Temporary leases have been introduced, social housing has been sold, there was free play for investors and a free market has been created. The debate with Mr Heerma now also shows Mr Rutte for an active housing policy. Let's call that a profit. In that light, I am curious to see how he himself looks back at his former colleague, Mr Blok, then still in the form of Minister for Housing. He has actively recruited international investors to buy our homes here. How does he look back on this with the knowledge of today and with the great housing crisis we are now in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u351	I don't think that's what this housing crisis is all about. I really wouldn't agree with Mrs Marijnissen. Let's take a look at the huge issues we faced in that period from 2012 or 2013 to 2015-2016, in that serious crisis. In doing so, we had to try to maintain the housing market on all sides, and we had to cut down on EUR 51 billion and reduce the burden. We also had to introduce this landlord levy, simply in order to get the state finances around. So I do not entirely agree with you, Mrs Marijnissen, that it is right to clarify this point now and to say that it caused the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u352	Of course I didn't say that. I am simply asking how the outgoing President looks back on this with the knowledge of today and indeed in the current housing crisis in which we are in. Of course, if you recruit international investors and try to sell our houses on interesting terms for them as if those houses were a earning model, you are indeed looking at housing as a market. We now also see that she has indeed become a market: living in the Netherlands is no longer a right but a earning model. I told you yesterday that you can get richer here if you own a number of houses and then you don't have to pay taxes on rent income then if you have a job and work hard. I don't think that's necessarily a good idea for a VVD guy. I ask for this because if we want to tackle the housing crisis, I think that is fundamental that the outgoing Prime Minister recognises that market thinking, seeing our housing as a market on which investors are indeed free to become rich, has been wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u353	This is a fundamental debate which Mrs Marijnissen and I have often had in a good atmosphere. That is why she is calling on me, at least it feels that I would be in favour of free market forces on the kind of issues such as health care and housing markets, while I would argue that elements of market forces in this type of large social arrangements relating to health care and the housing market can also help. That can be very light, because for example you make the quality differences clear. That's the lightest form of it. You know, if I go to that doctor, I have a better chance of getting better than if I go to that doctor. These are forms of free market experience in public sectors in public sectors, without this being market forces. I'm very sorry for that. You can do that in education. At which university degree course do you have the best guarantee on a good runway and which one doesn't? Where are the best professors? That must be completely transparent. That's what you learn from the free market. These are elements that can be transferred to the public sector, including, for example, health care. For example, in the Health Insurance Act, elements of market functioning function, without improving health care by suddenly abandoning the full market functioning, including unbridled profit distribution and so on. The same applies to the housing market. On the housing market, too, it is inevitable that you will keep elements where market forces with a good market leader are working.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But it's always a nuanced answer. It's not like that: oh, he's liberal, so he'll be totally in favour of unbridled market forces. No, these are great public functions: good homes, good health care and good education. Elements of market forces can help. Here too, my plea would be: let us try to leave ideology alone for a moment and let us look at what the solution should be from the analysis of the problem. I think that with the Health Insurance Act as a successor to the old system with the sickness fund we have a much better system. But there are other elements in the health market and, by the way, in the housing market where they are not. Think of having a lot of properties in a small number of hands. I think that we all experience that without tight regulation, this entails major risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u354	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u355	So I do not think we should leave ideology here for a moment. I think, on the contrary, that an ideological debate is appropriate here, given the state of our housing at the moment and the extent of the housing crisis at the moment. It certainly hasn't been the outgoing Prime Minister alone. Left-to-right parties have supported all kinds of measures that have led to our housing becoming much more of a market over the years, that corporations are barely building for people, that the rights of tenants have been broken, that temporary contracts have been introduced and that investors are free to play. I can go on with this list for a while. I therefore believe that it is precisely an ideological debate that is in place to learn from what has gone wrong over the last ten years or more and to ensure that we now come up with concrete solutions that will help people. Because that is, I think, a bit the end of this debate for us. Perhaps the political gain will be if the outgoing Prime Minister now says that he is also in favour of active housing policy, but I would like to make that concrete, because we are now in the housing crisis. He can't wait. We're gonna have to cut the landlord's tax. We noted yesterday that there is a broad political majority in favour of this. I think that's a good start. One thing that could help in a very concrete way, and which was also supported by a large majority in the election campaigns, is the freezing of people's rents in social housing. You don't have to have very complicated system discussions about that. For this, ideology, if Mark Rutte so wishes, can also be put aside. I think everyone here agrees that the rents have exploded until last year. The numbers are known. We really need to do something about that now. And we also need to do something for all the people who live in those neighborhoods and who are just really affected by them right now. They cannot pay the rent and are very worried about it. Does the outgoing Prime Minister agree that at least that is a step that we could take today? We could say: no rent increase in the coming year!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u356	The introduction I made, in response to Mr Segers' speech on the book on the two mountains, was intended precisely to outline that these kinds of complex issues are extremely difficult for the short blows and that these short blows really require a deeper reflection. 'Cause sometimes things just don't go well? Because there is just a coherent system of problems on several fronts, which you also have to look at in that connection. Only the landlord tax is now being considered. I get the advantage if you don't have that landlord tax anymore, but it's also ultimately a choice of scarcity issues if you want to abolish the tax altogether. And then again: we will see this evening how motions are tabled and how those votes are going. I understand that at least there may be proposals to make a more limited movement, but we will see how they work out tonight. I'll wait and see. The same goes, of course, for what is now being said about freezing the rents. That is what you have to see in connection with its effects. What does that mean in the longer term? We really need to be careful. And I would also ask Mrs Marijnissen to help, from her point of view, to think along and put aside all the thinking in these areas, as we have heard many times from her. But I would also ask you to say that, from a problem analysis, can we look at that freshly to see how we solve it? This is not just a question of a cabinet formation; in a new administrative culture, it also fits me in a parliamentary debate. But I think that forces us all to always reflect on our own previous positions. That would only be my question, very open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u357	Thank you. No, Mrs Marijnissen, I see that you want to respond, and I really do understand that, but I am also counting on your cooperation in this. 'Cause I'd like to suspend for lunch later. There are still a number of cubes, so I would also like to ask Members to make really shorter interruptions so that everyone can come to their senses. I'd be happy to give you a chance to respond, but very briefly. I also appeal to the other colleagues, because we still have a whole list and we still have a lot of important issues. I therefore appeal to you to keep it brief and concise. The same goes for you, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u358	Certainly, but the problem is that the outgoing Prime Minister, when we make concrete proposals, keeps saying: yes, no, that is complicated, because we have to come up with a coherent plan. But we heard yesterday from the spokesperson of the VVD that the VVD does not have that plan to tackle the housing crisis at least now. Then we come up with concrete proposals to do something now and then the outgoing Prime Minister says: yes, no, we can't, because we have to look at the whole package first. So I'd like to ask him that one more time. I am explaining this whole proposal, because it does not have to be a complicated system discussion, but it is something that we in the Chamber can actually do today to tackle at least a little bit of the housing crisis. And that's freezing people's rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u359	Then Mrs Marijnissen says: I'll do it for a year. Then what's she doing in 2023? There are so many questions behind it. You have to look at it in conjunction, don't you? Then we also have to make an analysis of what it would mean for the construction of new homes, for the entire functioning of the housing market, if you freeze those rents? That's a real reaction on my part, isn't it? That is what I think, regardless of my job, of how I stand here, but also in that debate. Mrs Marijnissen rightly pointed the finger at the sore spot yesterday and said that there is actually a totally coherent view at the moment, with parties and perhaps also with the cabinet, on how to solve these problems in conjunction. Anyway, this is my opinion. In open discussion and a new culture of governance belongs to me as well, I can only speak for myself.... that we should all also be willing to reflect on our own thinking so far, and not put one's own thinking as the truth here. Look, for example, at the freezing of the rents for one year: you really have to look at that, I think, at all the advantages and disadvantages. What can this mean for the construction of homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u360	Thank you. I'll appeal to the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u361	I'm gonna answer even shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u362	... but also to answer the questions as well and as concretely as possible. I notice some irritations on some of the members of the House. However difficult the issues may be, try to answer the questions of the Members of Parliament as briefly, forcefully and clearly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u363	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u364	I think this last piece of the answer is really bad. We are now pretending that we do not yet have an analysis of the problems of housing, as if no comprehensive proposals have yet been made in which both for the rental market and for the housing market are thought of what is good. The Prime Minister said earlier in his reply: we all agree on the objective, but we need to see which instruments work. The objective is clear: thousands of Dutch are looking for a home. They are number 500 in the queue for a rental house, or are as a starter, as a police officer or teacher, when they look at a sales house, always the bag, because an investor or someone with a jubelton always outbid them. So the goal is to build more houses, so that the waiting lists become less long, and make sure that those house prices and rental prices don't continue to rise so exorbitantly, so that people can pay it as well. We have long known what we need to do to achieve these goals, namely to increase the financial leverage for housing corporations, so that they can build and sustain, and to help municipalities build good public transport, so that you can develop the neighbourhoods. But it's also just in the Millions Note of this Triple Demissionary Cabinet. In the Millions note it says: the tax subsidy on home ownership leads to 14% higher house prices. The CPB, De Nederlandsche Bank, OECD, IMF and the European Commission have been saying year after year: "The Netherlands, do something about these tax subsidies. Take that jubelton. Continue to cancel the mortgage interest deduction." In addition to building more houses, you also ensure that the housing market is accessible to more people. So my question to the Prime Minister is next. If all these analyses have been there for years and if all these proposals for improving housing are there, then what is preventing this cabinet, in addition to tackling the landlord's tax, from reducing the tax subsidies on own housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u365	But that's what this cabinet is all about. We have, of course, taken a very big step towards phasing out that subsidy. But the cabinet is not in favour of abolishing it. No, we're not in favour of that. It is, of course, already very limited. Mr Jetten knows that. We used to have the fully-refundable mortgage. It's gone. The degree of reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction has accelerated during this cabinet period. In my view, this is also a measure that works well, which is also sensible. At the current very low mortgage interest rates you can also see that this can be done in many cases by transferring mortgages for people in their own wallets. But you have to do that with policy. Ultimately, the mortgage interest rate deduction still has a different social purpose, which I at least attach to, namely ownership formation. That has also been a classic reason for the mortgage interest deduction. It has always been a correction for high rates of taxation for workers. The tax rate on works is relatively high in the Netherlands compared to other countries. That was a correction. So I think it's good that it's being limited and that this also helps in addressing the problem. But I wouldn't think abolishing it would be wise. I thought even D66 wasn't in favour of that. I think there are still very good arguments for maintaining the mortgage interest deduction. But once again, of course, it is already very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u366	Getting rid of it is the advice that all those experts I just mentioned give us. In fact, the D66 electoral programme states that further cuts are being made. It also says stop the jubelton, which is disturbing at the housing market. Just now, with the current low interest rates, is the ideal time to reduce further tax subsidies on the housing market. People are indeed aware, as the Prime Minister himself acknowledges, not if they already own their own home. It is, of course, about how to further promote access to the housing market for all those people who do not yet own housing. So my question is again: if all these analyses are there, if we share the objective in this Chamber and if we also know what instruments are working effectively to build more houses and make the housing market accessible to more people, then what is preventing this cabinet from taking those steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u367	For example, this cabinet, including D66, has decided to limit the transfer tax. You can ask the question what the effect of that is. Did that contribute to higher house prices or not? Mr Jetten and I were both there. So it's not all that simple. Mr Jetten now gives the impression that these are all very simple steps. He was there when we decided this. If you look back on it, I think you should note that it may have contributed to a stronger rise in house prices. I also believe that this is proof that we should be careful to say that there are three reports that claim this, so do it and then we will build more houses. Then about the mortgage interest deduction. In the end, I think it has been a logical step to stop the repayment-free mortgage and limit the deductibility of mortgage interest rates to below the top rate. I think there were good arguments for that. I agree with Jetten: it was also the time to do so because of the low interest rates. But if you ask me: do you think that abolishing the mortgage interest deduction suddenly leads to a housing "tree"? No. And are there any good arguments for maintaining the remaining mortgage interest deduction? I'll say yes. These are the conversations that we will have to have in the near future, but I would really like to stick to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u368	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u369	I think the Prime Minister is right to take out the transfer tax. The hope was that we could help start-ups in the housing market. We now see the effect of this in rising house prices. It still does not lead to the desired result for starters to have easier access to it, as the removal of transfer tax leads to higher bids on homes. But here's the crux. Last year we chose to use one more instrument to further improve the housing market, because we simply failed to achieve a broader package. My call is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u370	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u371	Mr President, I'm hardly interrupting, so I'll take my time. My general point with regard to health care salaries was just as well. I am doing so again in the debate on the housing market...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u372	If Mr Jetten wants to hear from me now that I am in favour of giving it what is left of mortgage interest relief, then I say: I am not in favour of that. So he's gonna have to convince me of that, and I don't think that's gonna work. I think those limitations make sense. I also agree with his argument that you will have to look at these issues in a broader context as soon as possible in the coming weeks, and I hope that they will be taken into account as soon as possible in the formation. I know that Mr Jetten wants that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u373	Apologies to the Chamber for trying to keep it shorter, but there are still a lot of interruptions. I can see that one has more interruptions than the other, but I am trying to steer it all in the right direction. First of all, Mr Omtzigt, then Mr Eerdmans, then Mr Dassen, then Mr Azarkan, then Mr Segers, and then we close this section with Mrs Van der Plas. So first of all, Mr Omtzigt, with the request to be brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u374	Two things. Thank you for the commitment on that committee. Then with questions to the House, I will give you a few hints of what the precise questions are. They don't need to be interpreted as an attack, but as an interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u375	As we have done before with that committee on the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u376	Yes. Then two. I am surprised at this debate. The Prime Minister says that houses need to be built, but at the moment the houses of the housing corporations are sold with blocks at the same time to investors, while there are waiting lists of ten years. I wonder how the young people who have gone to that housing protest look at this debate. This housing crisis has been going on for two years. Every year we take an ad hoc measure here at the General Political Reviews. One time the transfer tax goes to 2%, the other time there is an extra 100 million for sustainability, but there is no plan from the cabinet to solve this housing crisis step by step. That has something to do with the rental market and the sale market. Is the cabinet prepared to take a look at the financial implications for the General Financial Reviews, and can we deal with that in the budget of the Minister for Foreign Affairs with a more comprehensive plan in which the rent payment is included and in which, for which Mrs Simons rightly asked attention, there is also the front door distribution? As far as the latter is concerned, even the VNG is asking for it, and even the most right-wing mayor says that a 21-year-old must leave his welfare parent, otherwise the welfare mother will lose the assistance for those other children and will not be able to make ends meet. I mean, it's pretty intense what's going on there. You're gonna need one less house. That's very nice. As far as I am concerned, this plan should include building and also looking at the inner urban ladder of sustainability, in the sense that you do not always have to show that it can be built in the inner city, because sometimes a field will have to be built somewhere. There will also have to be a bit of infrastructure, because if you are building a residential area there must be a station and not ten years later. Is such a vision available from the cabinet or is it deposited with the Chamber? If there isn't, let's be a lost year next year to take a step towards solving the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u377	This cabinet has, of course, been working for several years, Kajsa Ollongren, the entire cabinet, to deal successfully with the problems in the housing market in connection with spatial planning issues. I can assure you that we are going to have a look at this for the AFB, including, for example, the links with infrastructure issues, the underlying road network, the connection to the main road network at new construction sites, but also with regard to what it means, for example, in urban areas, from bicycle paths to transport links. When we talk to the big cities, it's all about that. They say: what are you doing from the Empire to ensure that those kinds of issues are solved, too, because then we can build? We can really put together a number of notions of that. I want to promise that we will do that for the AFB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u378	That is indeed a first step, but it is more important that the government sets itself a goal: how many houses do we need and how many do we succeed in building? Several parties have said: we have to build a million in ten years. I understand you're not going to take a step from 70,000 to 100,000 in the first year, because you won't be able to do that within a year, but just outline that path, make it checkable and then add the policy and send a letter to the AFB. That's gonna have to be about rent and buy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u379	Will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u380	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u381	Look. Then we go to Mr Eerdmans of JA21 and then Mr Dassen of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u382	One of the problems of housing in the Netherlands is that we have reserved a lot of places for megawind turbines. With your colleague Ollongren, I have fought many rubberts over it in the time she had the helm over it, and then it passed to Mrs Yeşilsus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u383	Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u384	Yes, thank you. The point is, a lot of space for wind turbines instead of housing. I have often asked the cabinet: how many places are occupied by future wind turbines, sometimes 250 meters high, where we cannot build? That's the first one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u385	I really don't know. You should have asked that in the first term. It would be weird, it would be almost autistic, if I knew that now, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u386	Well, well, well, well... Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u387	That says a lot about you. I am concerned that I have not received that answer from anyone until now. I'd like that. So I'll let you do that, too, just fine, by letter. The big question is: what can we not build because there will be wind turbines? The second question. A lot of residents have come in protest because a wind turbine comes close to their house and you hold on to a height of 265 meters. So they're not just gonna be at sea, no, there's gonna be 3,000 on land. Then the question is: what is the basis of support, do you think, for the installation of wind turbines? Then I'm not talking about support here in this securely built environment. No, it's about support in the country, with the people who just get one of those things out their door. 10% have serious sleep problems due to the fact that a wind turbine will be at their door. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u388	These are, of course, very serious issues. How do you take care of and, and, and? You'll be talking about the climate and energy transition. We'll be talking about nuclear energy. Eventually, we'll need osmosis, geothermal energy, wind, sun, everything. How do you do that in a way that there is also support, socially? Of course, we're trying to do everything we can. It is also partly the responsibility of regional and local authorities to ensure that there is support. So the first question seems to me to be something to take back to the BZK budget. And on the second question, that support is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u389	Finally, Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u390	What kind of support? Because is that the basis for measuring in a safe environment that is not built? Or do you think, like us at JA21, that the residents directly involved should have that support? Otherwise, it's not okay. We're not gonna set up wind turbines for people who don't sleep from them, who have drop shadows, who are bothered by that? Isn't that the basis of support that we have to measure? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u391	Yeah, but I wouldn't be in favour of some kind of local referendum. I'd be in favour of you working on support. I think that is driving, Mr Eerdmans has been a driver himself. Control is, also local and regional, that you work on support, that you conduct conversations with residents, that you look at the balance between all social interests. There is also a great social interest that this energy transition takes place. In the end, we want to get rid of fossil as a fuel for our energy supply. Again, that requires an energy mix that also includes wind. Of course, at sea this is easier than on land, but also the North Sea is becoming fuller and there are other major interests in the North Sea, in nature and fisheries. All this must take place in a good balance, but certainly on land. I think it's also a matter of good governance to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u392	Mr. Dassen and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u393	We particularly want to get rid of these wind turbines because they no longer go away and the whole country is full of them. I would like to answer the first question rather than the internal affairs budget, which I heard you say. I just think that in two or three weeks I should be able to get that answer to the question how much...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u394	I see the Prime Minister nodding that it will come in writing. You're right...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u395	This is in the run-up to the BZK budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u396	...that you hadn't had an answer to that. Mr Dassen van Volt and then Mr Azarkan van DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have already talked about several measures to ensure that we are going to tear this housing market down. Of course there must be an integral plan for this, but what I am curious about is how the Prime Minister looks at the increase in the liberalization limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u398	That, of course, will have to be looked at. What you ultimately want is that there is a rental market, and a sales market of course, but also a rental market for people with a very average income who do not use a social housing. So you're really gonna have to make those decisions in conjunction with me. Oh, a letter has been sent about it, I just heard, by the Home Secretary. I've missed it myself. I'm sorry. It was sent on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u399	I'm curious... okay, then I'm gonna read that letter first and then I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u400	I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u401	That's constructive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u402	Mr Segers and Mrs Van der Plas. But first Mr. Azarkan van DENK, on the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u403	I get the impression that the Prime Minister is giving a bit of the same answer to all the proposals as Mrs Hermans yesterday: we need to discuss it in conjunction with all the parties, and we need to see how that develops. And that's good. I would like to mention one more aspect of housing, and in particular the tax treatment. We have seen over the past ten years that people who have a mortgage have actually received a huge advantage, because the mortgage interest rate deduction is extremely low. If you had a mortgage of €300,000 in 2010, you paid €10,000 interest and at the moment that is €3,000. If you had a place to rent, you'd just go backwards. You paid €7,000 a year and that might be €7,500 or €8,000 now. In the middle sector, it is simply no longer possible to do so. So you can see that the people who rent in the middle sector or have a social housing unit pay a large part of their income to be able to live. That doesn't apply to people who have their own home. Is that also something the cabinet wants to look at, in the sense that it is unjust that this group has so much benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u404	That is not very easily soluble and that advantage is of course relative, because not everyone can transfer the mortgage. Not everyone does, and the second is that house prices have naturally risen significantly, perhaps in the light of low interest rates. At least this is often analysed in this way. It therefore does not mean that people necessarily have so much less living expenses in their daily budget. Only they have a nice house or a more expensive home. But of course it is very difficult to gleichschalten that, to put that right. I can't. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u405	That is another too easy answer. That it's complex, I understand. We've been talking about housing here for several hours, and I think it's good that that's what they're looking at. If the cabinet comes up with a plan, this has to be taken. In that sense, this can affect the tax treatment, because I think that on average it is unfair and unfair that people who already have wealth and who have already bought a property or have bought a property in recent years simply have a huge advantage. That's a little separate from the deductibility of the mortgage interest rate. I think that could be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u406	In many cases, this mortgage interest deduction is no longer at the expense of the owner's house, because it is so low. The advantage of the mortgage interest rate deduction for people who are flexible in closing the interest rate or who are extending it every three months forward is that they sometimes see interest rates below 2%. But that of course translates back into higher house prices and it is not free either. So it is a complex issue. It's almost impossible to solve either. Unless Mr. Azarkan now has a brilliant hunch, I wouldn't know what to think of in order to get more equality between renting and buying. Of course, there are always differences and that has to do with the choice people make between buying and renting. There are very good arguments to buy and there are also very good arguments to rent. In the end, of course, that's up to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u407	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u408	Of course, we can also ask the Chamber to have the Cabinet come up with an integral plan. Then we'll turn the tables a little bit, but that's not my question. In the number of challenges we have, housing is a hugely important one. As my colleague Mr Omtzigt said, come up with an integrated vision that takes all aspects into account. Then you can make choices in there. I am quite willing to make my contribution to this, but I would like to ask whether this is going to happen and whether this is going to be included. Because once again, it's just unjust. I also see in my surroundings that people sometimes pay less for a small social housing unit than someone who has a half a million-dollar house. That's just really an injustice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u409	I didn't make a commitment to lay down an entire housing vision. The commitment we have made is that, in the light of the General Financial Reviews, the Minister of Home Affairs, once again sets out a number of important notions about policy. At this particular point, you are asking whether there is an instrument to resolve this. We will look at it, but I say quite honestly: I would like to beware of too high expectations. To be honest, I do not know whether it is desirable either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u410	You just said "less," but you meant "more," I say for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u411	No, no, sorry. I meant "more." Mr. Chairman. I'm asking you to take this into consideration. I think it's important, because we... Once again, we have bought up 3,200 billion in debt with each other in a European context. We've pumped a lot of money into society. That goes for its way, and that means that interest rates can be so hugely low. This will greatly benefit people with their own homes and will widen the gap between people who can't buy and people who can buy. I'm gonna ask if that's gonna be taken, too. I understand that this does not immediately lead to a plan or a measure to remove it, but it is definitely something that belongs in that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u412	I understood Mr Azarkan to say: over time too, you can see that people who buy can be better off because of the low interest rates than people who rent. If I understand him more specifically now, he says that this is also the case with the choice now between buying and renting. It was not our plan to develop a complete living vision in the Dämmerung of this cabinet, but I have promised Mr Omtzigt that we will get some notes together. We're gonna see if there's anything useful to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u413	Thank you. Mr Segers, Christian Union, and then Mrs Van der Plas and then Mrs Simons, and then we suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u414	Mr Jetten has already said: should there not be an openness to look again at more measures, wider measures, if this housing crisis continues? That's a plea I'd like to join. I would also like to return to a debate that the Prime Minister had earlier with Mr Marijnissen, also an ideological debate. I suddenly remember the words of Klaas Dijkhoff, who said earlier: we always thought that if we were to use liberal means, such as market forces, then the outcome would be good. But if we see that the outcome is not good, then we still need to reconsider those resources. Does that also refer to housing, on what until recently was called "the housing market"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u415	And to care, absolutely. On both. My invitation to Mrs Marijnissen at that time was: let us therefore look from two sides whether, where perhaps on the side of the more liberal movement in this Chamber certain views are somewhat contonized, or perhaps on the other side may be so. If not, fine, but as a starting point for discussion that is very good. I agree: the outcome has to work. A result that fits one's own ideology is beautiful, but that is not the main objective. The main objective is that it works. That's why I said that if you look at the housing market, but also at care and education, education is not a market. Care is not a market. People's housing is not a market in itself, but it can help all kinds of elements of market forces, and I think you should have the debate on that. But not from the ideology that there must be market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u416	It is precisely in this reflection that a rethink is taking place, of: is this the outcome that we want? When we see those prices rise so high, that starters have no chance, that an ordinary family can't live in a city anymore, you can see that that just isn't right, that it's not right. And then it is certainly true that the VVD, certainly the VVD, has had a great influence on the policies of the last twenty years when it comes to living. One element I would like to take out and add to that broader reflection. The Prime Minister has promised to get his head together. Mr Jetten has asked for this openness to be kept. I see the Prime Minister immediately pointing to a colleague in the cabinet, but I am now addressing the Prime Minister. Mr Jetten said: keep that openness. He was talking about the mortgage interest deduction. I would like to talk about the jubelton. If you see that it leads to such unequal access to living, that those with parents who do have that money, drive up the prices, give their children a push, but others, who have to live on a modal salary, actually leave them without a chance, you have to say: we keep that medicine very well in the light for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u417	I am not against looking at all these aspects and keeping them under review. I'm one of those people who don't think parents need to apologize if they can give their kids that pussy. Mr Segers will not say that either. It is inevitable that some children are lucky enough to be born in a nest where they can and others can't. Both are fine. In the end, all you have to do is look at what social impact that has and whether it works out well. I think the term that is put on it is a little tendentious, because you have already given an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u418	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u419	Finally. What matters is not so much: are you able to help your child. It is very nice if you can help your child, but we make it more fiscally attractive and we encourage it. This creates an additional inequality, which is unjust. If the reality is that people with a modal salary cannot get a normal home and people who are warmer than that have more options, then I would say: look at these resources very carefully. After all, we used them at a time when the housing market was, at that time, really in a slump. That is why we said: houses must be bought and people must be able to buy again; we are going to make this more fiscally attractive. If you see that at another time things are going very differently, I would like to remind the Prime Minister of Klaas Dijkhoff: if the remedy was good at first, but now it is working badly, then you have to look very critically at the remedy once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u420	I'm willing to do anything. We just have to be careful, because at some point that goes even further. Inequality is also part of this society. One child will inherit from his parents and the other will not. This is still not clear whether there are any special tax advantages to give money with the warm hand. After the passing of parents, there will really be a difference between the children who can face a strong inheritance and those who can't. There are also these differences in society. I do not think we should be ashamed of both of these situations. This is part of a society where there are differences and the task of the government is to assist the people who are at risk of getting into trouble without having to blame themselves. It runs along two lines. These people must have good access to education, public health and something else I have forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u421	Mrs van der Plas and then Mrs Simons. Mrs van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u422	First of all, I would like to return to Mr Klaver's tirade. I do not want to defend Mr Van Haga, but I do, because I thought it was very inappropriate. I have heard Mr Klaver say more often, if there is anyone speaking to him who is displeasure, that someone should sit down. This was about the fact that Mr Van Haga has houses. I would like to point out to Mr Klaver and indeed to the entire Chamber that there are several Members of Parliament who rent their houses privately. There were former MPs who, for example, offered a hotel apartment commercial. So please let us not be more generous than the Pope and other people take the measure by saying: you should sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u423	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u424	There are even MPs from GroenLinks who have been in a foundation for real estate in France, who also rent a house. Half of the Chamber rents an apartment here in The Hague that is empty half the week, because they are not in The Hague. I am very sorry, but I am so deeply disturbed by this hypocritical behavior. That's what I wanted to say first. I also have a request to be careful with that for once. Put your hand in your own bosom and look in the mirror every now and then. I will, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u425	Thank you. Then I'll give you a chance to ask the Prime Minister a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u426	People may find that annoying, but I think I'm dealing with my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u427	Yes. You're asking the Prime Minister your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u428	Now I have a question for the Prime Minister. Because I've missed an answer. I have looked back on my input and it may also be that he did not take it as a question. In my contribution yesterday I said: research whether it is possible to build a new city or a neighborhood on the dry part, not the wet part, of the Oostvaardersplassen. I didn't get an answer to that. If the Prime Minister did not take that as a question, then the request is whether he will be able to answer it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u429	I ran into it this morning in the set that was handed to me by the administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u430	Maybe the Prime Minister can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u431	It's coming back, but it's in one of the other chapters and I can't find it so soon. It's probably climate-related.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u432	If you are looking, then there was also another question from Mrs van der Plas on agricultural innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u433	Yeah, he's coming anyway. I'll be back on agriculture. I think they were sitting there. He'll show up anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u434	Yes. Finally, Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u435	I would like to return to the unfortunate exchange I had with the outgoing Prime Minister with regard to the cost-sharing standard. I didn't do my homework well, and that's a shame, but the Prime Minister didn't do his homework well either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u436	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u437	'Cause what turns out to be? I have in front of me a letter from Minister Koolmees dated 17 May this year, in which he presents an exploration containing four scenarios on how to shape or abolish the cost sharing standard. That is a very interesting piece, but it is remarkable that I hear the Prime Minister say very firmly, as the first answer to my question: this cabinet is not open to it. It is four variants of motions adopted by this Chamber. Thank you to Mrs Leijten, who pointed that out to me. I would like to share some of the conclusion, because the Prime Minister just told me that it was not possible to do anything, that it was impossible and undesirable. It had to do with where it was reflected in the social domain. Hence part of the conclusion of that exploration, a exploration that the VNG is also pleased with, because that is one of the parties that really asks if we can do this differently: "In further developing a different design of the cost sharing standard, it is important that we take account of income effects, both for individuals and for households. Not only does the individual collection income change, but also the income per household or income per address. (...) Moreover, discussions with various municipalities, Divosa and the VNG show that, although a different design of the cost sharing standard leads to higher benefits costs, it can lead to less public expenditure elsewhere in the social domain, such as less expenditure on youth care and social care." In this context, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would like to return to the answer he has just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u438	I understand the different scenarios on how to deal with the cost sharing standard, but I do not think that the cabinet or Wouter has taken any decisions on this now. So that sounds like something on the table. Mrs Simons asked me why it came, why I think it can be defended. I just outlined that, so I won't repeat it here. However, this has to do with the impact on public finances of the total social security burden. That's why it came. Of course, we can always have a discussion to change or abolish things, but that is how I just had that discussion with Mrs Simons. If you come to a reweighting of the cost-sharing standard in a formation or wider social debate or chamber debate, then these are very good notes to see what alternatives are. But the cabinet doesn't intend to come up with alternatives right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u439	I never asked, "Why did it come?" I referred in my speech to the suggestion that we should look at this in order to abolish it. So here, too, there is no response to actual facts. At the time when I asked, because it was not discussed, whether the Prime Minister could reflect on that again in his missionary status, the answer may be that the cabinet is not intended, but the question is not whether the cabinet intends to do so. The question is whether the outgoing Prime Minister can react in substance if a Member of Parliament refers to it in her contribution. That didn't happen. I understand it's not on the table. I have also said that the word zero appears in the note. So I'd already come to that conclusion. But now we know there's a reconnaissance. I can accept the answer that it is up to a new cabinet. I also think it's up to a new cabinet. But that is a very different point of departure, which is why I wanted to come back to it, rather than the exchange we had just had, namely: it cannot, because social domain. I'm glad I had the opportunity now. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It even reduces expenditure in other places within that budget, within that budget. So it's possible. The fact that it may not be desirable, according to this Prime Minister, or that it does not come from it, is a completely different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u440	I'm meeting Mrs Simons. I think she has a serious point here. If I had known that report exactly, we could have talked about it in more detail, but I am not quite ready. I just didn't say "I can't," but I said I'm not for it. I didn't say it couldn't be done. Of course, you can abolish the cost-sharing standard again; that is not the point. Mrs Simons is right that you can finance it differently. But I also agree with her argument and have failed her somewhat in the earlier discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u441	Then there's something we can agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-2.u442	This brings us to the end of the topic of housing. I suggest we suspend for lunch until 3:30.
