ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u1	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on legislative proposals 35619, 35620, 35842 and 35621. We now need the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing three municipal reclassifications: the merger of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk in Noord-Holland, van Landerd and Uden in Noord-Brabant and of Boxmeer, Cuijk, Grave, Mill and Sint Hubert and Sint Anthonis in Noord-Brabant. The special feature of the reclassifications that are before us today is that all three of them have been created from below. They are reclassifications in which none of the municipalities has had the objective of reorganising as an end in themselves, but in which they all have the motive that in the future they will be better equipped for the social task they are facing. We've talked about this before in this room. Municipalities get a lot of things to do. This is partly the result of the 2015 decentralisations, especially in the social domain, but we still see it around us every day: the corona crisis, the restoration of the corona crisis, the housing issue and the Climate Agreement, or rather the energy transition that the municipalities are facing. I think that increasing the power of action for these municipalities has been a motive, as well as I really want to emphasise the desire to maintain the proximity of government. These municipalities, which I think are true for many municipalities in the Netherlands, want this proximity not to be lost; they want it to be preserved. As has been said, it has been established from below, i.e. the municipalities themselves have taken the initiative to do so. The support has played a role. It meets the criteria set out in the 2018 policy framework. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to do the answer as follows, with your permission. I would first like to address the three reclassifications before us and the questions that have been asked about them. Then I would like to comment more generally on a number of questions and comments, on referenda, support, from the bottom up or not. Those are the more general questions. It may seem the reverse order, but I thought: these are the legislative proposals that lie ahead. Hence the order. I want to start with the merger of Landerd and Uden. Of the three reclassifications, by far the majority of comments have been made today. In this case too, both municipalities involved in the merger aim to maintain the small scale. They found each other in there. That is actually the special thing about this reclassification: by scaling up they retain the small scale. I am aware that there has been a lot of discussion about the Schaijk core. Many questions have also been asked about this today. I also saw that there was a representation of the residents outside the Binnenhof. I believe that the questions raised today dealt with two issues: in particular, acceptance and evaluation. I would like to discuss both points with you. Schaijk is one of the six cores of these two municipalities. All the discussion is about that core; not about the other cores, but about this core. The basis of support must be measured on the whole; some have also appointed it as it is today. I think you can say that there is indeed social support for this reclassification. It is not so that the inhabitants of Schaijk who are not able to find themselves in the reclassification are not heard by the municipal administration. In fact, their objections have been discussed in detail at every stage of the process, from the start to the moment of the reclassification here. We all have to recognise that decisions are taken in democratic processes that cannot be accepted by everyone. That's just a fact. Municipal councils have made an assessment in the wider interest of all inhabitants of Landerd and Uden, and that is a decision which I would like to respect at least. That is why I would also like to explain in this Chamber why the municipal administration has opted for a simple reclassification and not for a division of Schaijk. There are four reasons for this. The first is the connection between the two cores Reek and Schaijk in Landerd. Reek and Schaijk used to form the municipality of Schaijk. In fact, they are inextricably linked. The city council has chosen not to separate them. That's starting point one. Then there's the support. Landerd itself consists of three cores: Schaijk, Reek and Zeeland. The inhabitants of Zeeland and Reek are in majority for a reclassification with Uden. Opinions in Schaijk are divided, as has already been mentioned. I would like to say to Mr Van Hattem that a survey has also been carried out in Reek. This showed that 59% of the population opted for a merger with Uden and 34% for a merger with Oss. In the total municipality there is a majority for the reclassification with Uden. Then there is the question of profile and scale of the new municipality. The idea behind the reclassification between Landerd and Uden is that both pay attention to the preservation of their cores. Together, they think that the interests of their small cores can be well represented in the region. That is therefore an end in itself for them. In that philosophy it is less appropriate to add two cores, Reek and Schaijk, to a larger municipality of Oss. So it fits well in the philosophy of the new municipality's administration to do it this way. That's really different within the municipality of Oss. The fourth point is equivalence in the reclassification process. It is important for Landerd to participate on an equal footing with Uden in the reclassification process. Landerd believes that the interests of the three cores are best protected and safeguarded. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that the new municipality of Maashorst deals well with this double orientation of Schaijk. That's a fact. You know that, and you can take that into account. I hope that the evaluation that will take place after two years will also show that this is happening. Now I wanted to go on to the evaluation, but I'm just gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u4	It cannot remain in the Acts what the Minister said. She said that in Uden the concern for small cores is in the policy vision and in good hands and not in Oss. Isn't that what the Minister said? Well, you should know, I've listed it today... that Oss has gotten Lith, Geffen, Ravestein... I'm probably forgetting something else, all through separate laws. Oss is a community that is doing very well, especially for its small cores. I want to protect the municipality of Oss, which is a little frustrated about the way things are going around Schaijk, from sticking to that contradiction in policy vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u5	I am glad that Mr Rombouts gives me the opportunity to correct that. I did not mean it as a plea against a municipality, but as a plea for the philosophy that the two municipalities that have chosen for each other have been assuming since the beginning: we have here these three small cores and will be part of our administrative and policy arrangements that we maintain well those village centres and their identity. Indeed, Mr Rombouts is right that this does not mean that other municipalities would not handle this properly. Then I'll go to the evaluation. There are official discussions about the evaluation. They are of course exploratory, because they can only be final if there is a new municipal administration. This can only be done after the reclassification date. However, it is intended to involve an independent research office to carry out that evaluation and to ask that agency to look at the design of the evaluation in consultation with the municipality, but also with the province and the ministry. Then it is obvious that there are frameworks from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with the text contained in the draft law on evaluation being guiding. I am happy to be able to inform the Chambers about the design of the evaluation, as requested by Mr Koole. If there is a need for this, of course I will say so. I think it is important that this evaluation provides an independent picture of the position of Schaijk and Reek, the two village centres, within the new municipality of Maashorst. I would also like to look again at how that has developed and at the vision of the position of the cores within the new municipality, the desirability of joining Oss. I think that we are doing justice to the wish expressed by the law. The involvement of the inhabitants is, of course, also very important. They should be involved in the evaluation. I think I or my successor should see to that. In line with the amendment, the various cores will be taken into account in the implementation of the evaluation. It says literally: a distinction must be made between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u6	Is the Minister not afraid that the new municipality of Maashorst will develop with the handbrake, because the evaluation will be there in a year or two and all kinds of discussions will take place in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u7	I'm not very afraid of that. The choice that is now being made is the choice as desired by the now two municipalities, including the municipality of Landerd in which these two villages are part. It will be a great pleasure for the municipalities to make this a success. The evaluation must be carried out properly and independently. I'm sure things aren't gonna go well either, but I honestly think it's an extra incentive and a motivation to make sure that they're gonna do that full fledge from the moment the law passes and the reclassification is a fact. I can also very well imagine the opposite effect, namely that they make sure that things are going well, that they are being delivered and that they stick to the agreements and plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u8	If we listen to the inhabitants of Schaijk who want to join Oss, that's part of the population, not everyone in Schaijk, they have all kinds of reasons why they want to join Oss. It seems to me that during that evaluation period they do not suddenly change their minds, because why would they not have done so before? In other words, they may stick to their position and do not change it. How does that affect the evaluation in a year or two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u9	A healthy Dutch attitude is: first see then believe. That's why we're here together. If this Chamber gives the green light for this reclassification, we can get started with it. Then the discussion is no longer theoretical. Then it's not just what you expect to be improved on paper anymore. Then you can actually implement it. Of course, it's important that people notice and recognize it. I fully agree with Mr Dittrich that not everyone will change their minds. But they're looking at the glasses for it to happen. Then it is not just a theoretical model, but then it has actually been put into practice. If you agree to do an evaluation, it should be done openly. If there are things that go less or if there are people who still have a different view, that too must be part of the findings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u10	My last question. I hear the Minister say that she can provide a framework for those discussions during the evaluation. Then what is the place of especially the inhabitants of Schaijk who really want to belong to Oss? What can they expect from this evaluation? How are they contacted and how can they ventilate their opinions again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u11	I find it very difficult to answer that precisely, because then we are really a few steps further. As I said, the discussions on the evaluation are still very exploratory in nature. I think that we really should not go any further and that the agency that will carry out the evaluation will have to give a professional opinion on this later. As far as I am concerned, it is vital that residents be involved in the evaluation. Whatever the best form is, I wouldn't like to say in this place right now. Let's see what proposals come up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u12	I used to learn across the street as an employee of Frans Andriessen, the later finance minister, that sometimes a minister or secretary of state has to give away a cookie to get the cake. It's about the bill against a motion. Does the Minister believe in that evaluation, or is this the cookie that had to be given away to get some groups to vote in favour of the bill? In other words, wasn't that evaluation a little forced? In the case of reclassifications over time, you can see that such an evaluation after two years is far too early. Isn't that what's going on here, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u13	I understand the point. I think we should also be honest: it has been amended. It wasn't the proposal I made. Nevertheless, I do not think that you should say that such an evaluation is not a good idea in itself. The House of Representatives was also in discussion, with itself I would almost say, on how to deal with this issue. Then she proposed this as a way to move forward. I didn't advise against the amendment either. I said: I didn't register it myself and I didn't have to, but if the House of Representatives liked it... I think I said it literally. In other words, if the House of Representatives really needs it, in order to be able to agree to the bill, I have no objection to it. I have therefore given the amendment a ruling in Chamber and it has been accepted. I can really live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u14	Another question: how do you intend to involve the municipality of Oss in all this? That is, in the end, the core that matters in Schaijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u15	That is, of course, a good question from Mr Rombouts. As I have just said to Mr Dittrich, I do not think that we should completely shut down what it looks like. The same applies to wider involvement. Moreover, this may not have to wait for the evaluation. I think that it is important for administrative relations in the region to be given a great deal of attention. Finally, there will have to be cooperation with neighbouring municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u16	Finally, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u17	The last question. My first question was whether you would like to give the people of Schaijk, who are protesting now, and I know very well that there are many others who want to go to Uden to guarantee that this evaluation is not a blood test, but that the process is organised in such a way that it can even have an effect in the sense that they like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u18	Mr Rombouts himself said in his first term that no politician wants to give guarantees. For those who have concerns or who would have preferred a different outcome, I would like to say that the evaluation will be a serious evaluation and that its outcome is important input, first and foremost for local use. It's for the city there. It is very important that he then gives his opinion and takes it seriously. In any case, I will do everything in my power to ensure that it is a very serious evaluation, in which the voice of the inhabitants can be heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u19	However, we are getting a little further and further on from the debate. In the written round it was still that the evaluation was entirely at local level and that the Empire would not say anything about it at all. Now we are on the point that there will seem to be frameworks and that the opinion of the people of Schaijk and Reek will be involved. I would like to hear from the Minister how we should look at this evaluation. The minister says she needs to be independent and good. What's good? What are the criteria? How does the Minister deal with the frameworks, whether or not they are with local government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u20	Mr Rombouts rightly said that it has become part of the law. It just says in the law that there should be an evaluation. It's a directional one, too. For example, the law says that a distinction must be made between the different cores. That's the point for me. What is also said here: I think it is quite natural that you include the opinion of the inhabitants when you do such an evaluation. I thought it was a relevant addition that Mr Rombouts just did. But I also said that we are not going to agree exactly what this evaluation will look like here. We are at the preliminary stage of shaping the evaluation. However, at Mr Koole's request, I undertook to inform the Chamber. So here's what I can say about it at this stage. It will have to be completed in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u21	But we can talk about the frameworks and how to involve the population. Can the Minister indicate how the population is involved? Can we do that through a referendum? Can this be done by means of surveys or other forms of public consultation, in which every citizen is given the opportunity to express his opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u22	No, and I must repeat what I just said in response to Mr Rombouts' question. I do not want and cannot at the moment indicate how the inhabitants are involved in the evaluation. I think that is something that needs to be decided later in the process. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, whether I will be myself or my successor, is mainly here to keep an eye on whether action is being taken in accordance with what is laid down in the law, i.e. in accordance with the amendment, to name but a few. I think that's very important. After that, there must be plenty of room for local content and also for the professionalism of an independent agency that will carry out such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u23	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u24	Finally, Mr President. So I fully understand that the Minister says that the issues that were finally dealt with in the law through the amendment will form the framework for the research mission. Can we therefore assume that a zero measurement will be applied, or that at least there will be a state of affairs at the moment, so that what is being evaluated is clear? And perhaps it will become clear what indicators might be available to determine at the end of the journey, i.e. in two years' time, whether the expectations have been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u25	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u26	I hear all of Mr Van Hattem's suggestions, but I said what I said: there are exploratory talks, the frameworks of the law are clear, and that is the role I see before me from BZK. Mr Van Hattem makes much more concrete proposals, which already go much further. I just haven't gotten there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u27	Then I'll go to Mr. Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u28	There's gonna be an independent agency. I immediately believe that a good evaluation is being carried out; apart from the fact that it is in the law, as a municipality of Uden you would be crazy not to take care of it properly. But the Minister then said in her speech: the results are primarily local, i.e. with the Uden City Council. The evaluation will certainly not be unambiguous. Some will say: we want to stay with Uden. A part will say: we still want to go to Oss. And I am not just talking about the residents, but that can also be about other actors. But suppose the municipality of Uden says: we have seen the evaluation, the law is fulfilled, we are satisfied and it is good. Is that also for the Minister and for these two chambers "good"? Is it not true that in the end only the Uden City Council can take the step to say: split Schaijk off anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u29	The city council of Uden will no longer exist by then, but the city council of Maashorst. Of course, that already matters, because it also represents the other cores. But indeed, I said: the municipality of Maashorst is the first move. I think that is a logical starting point. I think it's a bit crazy to anticipate such an evaluation, because we don't even know exactly how it's going to take shape, let alone that we can have any idea of what's coming out of it. It may well be that people are more satisfied than they expected at first. The opposite is also possible. If the latter is reflected in the evaluation, I believe that this should first be discussed locally. If this could then lead to a different administrative division, then the discussion should again be held with the province and with BZK. We'll see after that. You don't have to rule anything out. I agree with Mr Van der Burg that other parties than the municipality of Maashorst are needed, but it starts there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u30	Apologies, of course it is Maashorst. You will notice: I am so influenced by the inhabitants of Schaijk who are against. They see it more as a takeover by Uden and even in my debate with the Minister I am doing so now. The Minister now says 'in the first instance' again, but there will only be a second instance if that first instance decides that there will be a second instance? Or does the Minister say: I, or my successor, will judge that evaluation independently, and if I, or my successor, do not agree with the city council, can I, or my successor, decide to intervene top-down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u31	That was indeed not my position. My point was that even the province and BZK, if the evaluation gives rise to this, could be involved, but I am actually assuming that the new municipality of Maashorst will take that seriously and will also at first consider possible solutions and perhaps discuss them with a neighbouring municipality. I do not rule out the fact that the evaluation shows that it may well be going in the right direction. If it isn't, you can discuss it locally first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u32	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Pareren, who has taken over Mr Van der Linden, who has been prevented from speaking this evening. Mr Van Pareren is therefore speaking on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for the introduction I am standing here for. I would like to describe it as follows. We talk a lot about "now we're gonna do that evaluation," "how are we gonna do that?"', "is it like that?'. Here's what I wanted to ask the Minister. It seems to me to be a form of a multiple forced marriage, where we say: do it together, go together, but in a few years we will judge how that marriage has succeeded or failed. That gives such a strain on such a marriage that those partners in that marriage hardly dare to move. Isn't it better to have these things arranged in advance, so that one can go to the next step with full energy and enthusiasm?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u34	I understand the analogy somewhere, but she doesn't go all the way. If you're talking about a marriage, there are two municipalities here that have voluntarily chosen to marry each other. The point is, it's not about two people, it's about a lot of people. I told you, in a democracy, you rarely reach a decision that everyone really agrees on. Of course, there are also people with different opinions. They have every right to express that. They did. Still, we need to find a solution. I think that the agreement that an evaluation should be made in two years' time should be part of that solution and should be part of taking people seriously, concerns and signals. That's how I look at it. They have arranged that well with each other locally, and they have done so in a good and serious way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u35	Thanks for the answer. I still want to go back to the wedding. You also mentioned it in the reply. It's known that something will be needed in a few years. That's not for nothing. We're not saying it's okay, and it's gonna be okay. There's doubt. Our group would say: if in doubt do not do so. I could also imagine that you'd be very uncomfortable with a law with such a clause in it. How do you look at it yourself? Wouldn't you rather file it and move it up a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u36	No, look, we, administrators, city councils, aldermen, mayors, sometimes also sit there to make difficult decisions and decisions with which you cannot satisfy everyone. Let us not forget that to people who say very vocally that they prefer not to, they are people who do. I believe that it has been possible locally to shape this in a good way by bringing this proposal to this House in a proper way. It was clear that, because of that feeling that some people had a slightly different idea, it was necessary to do something with it. This has taken the form of an evaluation. I've already said it might not have been necessary for me to have a law, but that's where it is now. If that's what's needed and if that's comforting, then that's fine. With this prospect, everyone can now concentrate on these new municipalities and on all the challenges and tasks ahead of them. We all know, also from other reclassifications, that at first there will be some energy in merging. It is necessary to be able to look ahead, to see the dot on the horizon, and I am confident that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u37	I shall now go to Mr Kox, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u38	I think a little too soon bears are being painted on the road. Schaijk existed shortly after the first millennium and Schaijk still exists for a very long time, whether it comes to Uden or Oss or who knows. I understand the Minister well when she says, "I didn't come up with it." The House of Representatives, I think unanimously, has said: because of the special case, we think that both at Dijk and Waard and Maashorst should be looked at whether what we now like is still good. I also understand the Minister when she says that the primary responsibility is for the local government. Otherwise, it would be very weird. It does not say in the law that we are being evaluated and that we are going to do so, but it says in the law that the evaluation is being carried out by the local government. Am I to understand that this is the starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u39	Exactly. That is the starting point. On request, I outlined the possible escalation ladder, if necessary. I'm not gonna assume that. At first, it happens locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u40	The insurance that's in the law says there's a need for evaluation. This implies a proper evaluation. You cannot yet describe exactly what this is, but there is a need for proper evaluation. That is also the performance obligation of the relevant municipality, the new municipality. When evaluated, Oss and Maashorst can also discuss what is the best solution. I think that's the order. Then I think, with the Minister, that it is not necessary to say now: we have no confidence in it at all. We'll see. The evaluation is there to see it. That seems to me to be the correct interpretation of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u41	Yes. The only thing is that, in this case, it has been brought into the law by amendment. I think this just gives a little more weight to the Minister's involvement. That is why I also said that we need to look closely at the frameworks and the assignments. The Chambers are also interested in this. That is the only reason why there is a small distinction with other evaluations, which have been agreed in a different way, for example in the case of motion or which were already part of the process locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u42	Finally, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u43	I note that the Minister's answer explains even better to our colleague Van Hattem, who was sitting there, that we are indeed quite close together and that this path is a passable path. I think it is a rather special path, but that is no reason to say that this would not be reliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u44	Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to make things clearer, here's what I'm gonna do. There's always talk of two years. Article 9 of the bill states that within three years of the date of reclassification, the Minister shall send a report on the functioning of the municipality of Maashorst to the States General. Within three years, that's over two years. It is the minister who sends the report, not the minister who makes the report. In reply to the written questions, it was said that it was an independent agency. My question to the Minister is this: does the minister responsible for the report sent to the States-General set up that independent agency, after consultation with the municipalities? The second question is related to that. In answering the questions, it is said that the municipality of Oss is also involved in the evaluation. Does this also mean that the municipality of Oss is directly involved in the exploratory talks? An evaluation looking forward to ascertaining the situation in two years' time should, of course, also consider whether a municipality where a core might move after two or three years has its own thoughts on whether that is desirable or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u46	It's actually two questions. The law gives a rather specific interpretation of the design of the evaluation. It is therefore the responsibility of the Minister of BZK to shape this together with the province and the municipality of Maashorst. That's what I just said. There will have to be a meeting between the municipality, the province and the BZK. It is important, however, that the Bureau, which is going to do this, should be able to do so independently. The bureau gets a job, goes to work and reports back. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will have to inform Parliament about this. Conversely, if there is, the report is part of the conversation that will take place in the municipality. Then about Oss. In my interpretation, Oss' involvement is important. I told you that would have to happen anyway, even without evaluation. It is simply important that there is cooperation between the municipalities. This is also important in the evaluation, but it is important in the implementation of the evaluation. I did not interpret it in such a way that there would be prior consultation with us on the design. Of course, I think it is important that this has a place during the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u47	This concerns Oss' involvement, at least during the journey. I could imagine if you knew you were doing an evaluation involving Oss, you'd be doing it from the start. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Then there's the follow-up question. The Minister also said that it is very important that we talk not only about one core, about Schaijk or Reek, but about one of the six and that there is total support for this merger. However, the evaluation was carried out and Schaijk and Reek were explicitly mentioned in the evaluation. My question to the Minister is as follows. If you start to evaluate and find that most of the new municipalities, with all the cores in them, are satisfied, but part of Schaik and Reek is not, then that outcome reflects about the current situation. When does an evaluation have an effect? Does only the majority of the cores count? Or are we also looking at the wishes of the individual cores?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u48	I think that is a good and fair question. That question, of course, has also been raised in the debate, but I do not think that we should or should be able to answer that question at this stage. That's why it's important that the research setup is good and that you really think about how you want to deal with such things. By the way, of course, this is not without precedent. Let me take a look at Mr Van der Burg. I remember that in our Amsterdam days there was something similar to the Haarlemmermeer. That's also been evaluated. By the way, people there turned out to be much more satisfied than they might have thought before, when the reclassification was not yet a fact. So let us keep the option open that it turns out to be an improvement. That's an option. So we don't know. I think it is an important point, but I wouldn't want to draw out all the scenarios right now. We'll see if you agree to this first. If that is the case, then the reclassification after the green light becomes a fact. This will then be the subject of work and the evaluation can then be started after two years. So we've really been two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u49	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u50	I understand the Minister's answer. Then I ask the Minister whether it would not be wise to put the law first by Parliament in the order outlined by the Minister, and if that is the case, the reclassification of the contours of the evaluation will come to paper immediately after the reclassification. Then everyone knows where he is, because if you do that in three years' time, it could be very easy: yes, we would have known that, we would have done it differently. I think it would be wise to do so as soon as possible after the time of possible reclassification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u51	The exploratory talks have already started. In that respect, Mr Koole is right. You don't have to wait until the moment it starts, two years from now. We need to find the best shape. I imagine it goes exactly in that order: first here the green light and then the reclassification. Then you can finish it in 2021 and in 2022 you can weigh with each other if it is a good design. Then you don't really have to start until the year after. I think it might be possible in that scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u52	Building on this, I ask who will ultimately grant the research design and the research assignment. Did they come from the minister? Do they come from the local government? Are they from the county? I just heard the province in a certain role. Can there be more clarity as to who is ultimately going to give the order for this? And who will ultimately draw the conclusions of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u53	I'm gonna find out exactly who's giving the order. I don't know if we can say that already. In any case, I am closely involved in this, or my successor to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's under the law commissioned by the minister. I improvise for a moment, but I think the Minister of BZK is the client, but that the Minister should do so in very close consultation with the municipality concerned, Maashorst, and that the Minister also involves the province. Let's see how we can put Oss in there. I believe that Mr Koole's point is quite right and understandable. Once the report has been completed, I assume it will simply be given to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But it is very important input, precisely locally, for a local consideration as far as I am concerned. That's how I see the process. But, yeah, I'm really philosophizing about something that should start in two years. I understand that the Chamber would like to provide frameworks, but we may also have to give them some room for reflection and advice from people who have learned even more about this than we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u54	I'd still like to pull it away from philosophizing. There is now a bill that has been amended with certain assignments in it. I think it is right that the Minister should make it clear that, in principle, the assignment is the responsibility of the Ministry, of course in consultation with the local authorities, and that this can be confirmed at least. Can the Minister also indicate specifically what the role of the province will be in this evaluation? He was just named, too. How are they involved and to what extent are the GS and perhaps also PS?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u55	There is a law, the Law ARHI, that describes the roles of the municipality, province and empire neatly. Everyone has a role in that, so it is obvious to include the province in it. Anyway, I don't want to have the whole debate about the county. We know the responsibilities of that, don't we? So both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u56	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u57	I believe that this is not about the ARHI Act, but about the implementation of this evaluation. The Minister had said that the province was also involved. I would like to make that clear. I think that's separate from the ARHI procedure. How will the province stand in this and what role will it play in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u58	I think it is important and logical that the province should also be given a role. We are talking about a role that the province has in our public administration towards the municipality and a role that the provinces can have when it comes to reclassifications. That's why I called the ARHI. So it makes sense to involve them. Moreover, that is the way in which I at least look at how we work as a government, namely together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u59	Very briefly. Involving everyone is a good way of doing things: don't exaggerate, I think, but a good attitude. In fact, Mr Van Hattem's first question was about your thinking out loud. You called it philosophies yourself. It's very simple, isn't it? The House of Representatives instructed you to evaluate this amendment, didn't it? And you're the client, aren't you? That's not gonna be the church, is it? That's not gonna be the county, is it? They're not gonna pay for that either, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u60	That was also a moment's notice: that bill comes naturally from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that is also a good thing. Indeed, Mr Rombouts is right. The client will simply be the Ministry of BZK, but it cannot be without the involvement of the other authorities mentioned by me. If we have discussed this reclassification to a sufficient extent, I would like to dwell very briefly on Land van Cuijk. This afternoon, in particular, one remark was made by many spokesmen, namely that it is of course special that the municipality of Grave was included in the bill by means of a novelle. That is what I have done to respond to the concerns that also lived in the House of Representatives. A motion for a resolution, Mr Sneller, was adopted on that, by the way. I am actually very pleased that it has been possible to deal with this with the novelle so quickly here in this Chamber. It really had to be a bit in the quick cooker, because of course we don't do it this way that often. It then suits me to express appreciation from this place for everyone who has made that possible. I think it gives a very positive impetus to an already beautiful process that was going on there. Mr. Chairman. Finally, with regard to the legislative proposals Heerhugowaard and Langedijk, for which I have heard a great deal of support today, for which I am grateful. A motion of the member Snoeren has been adopted in the Lower House. Following completion of the reclassification process, the government was asked to request the province of North Holland to be evaluated with the new municipality of Dijk and Waard, the municipality of Alkmaar, as well as the inhabitants of Sint Pancras and Koedijk, and to explore whether for the villages of Sint Pancras and/or Koedijk a border correction with the municipality of Alkmaar is a lasting solution and to inform the Second Chamber about the progress within two years. So I'm quoting what's in the motion. It is therefore also a question of an evaluation, with a direction, this time in motion. The motion also explicitly calls for the citizens of Sint Pancras and Koedijk to be involved in this evaluation. We will, of course, also respond to that. I think it is also important to make final agreements with the province of North Holland on the implementation of this evaluation. And that is also what we have to do with the municipal authorities, in this case of the municipality of Dijk and Waard and of Alkmaar. This can only happen after the date of reclassification, i.e. after 1 January 2022. And for this evaluation too, we are already having exploratory talks. For the rest, I think that we have just discussed the Maashorst evaluation very extensively, and that everything that has been said about this also applies to the evaluation of Heerhugowaard/Langedijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u61	That answer your question, Mr. Van Hattem? No, not yet. I thought I'd see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u62	Almost, Mr. Chairman. My question was indeed whether this evaluation should actually be a counterpart to the Maashorst evaluation. But I still have that point of view of the inhabitants of Koedijk and Sint Pancras who are involved. In what way is that opinion involved? Can the Minister give a little more explanation about this? And all residents are given equal opportunities to express their opinion, in the form of, for example, a referendum, a survey, etcetera, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u63	No. Nor can I make a statement on this at the time of the evaluation we have just discussed, but I can make a statement on this at the moment in this survey, other than that the motion explicitly requests that the inhabitants be involved. It is therefore necessary to find a form for this, but what form it will take will not be determined until later. Mr. Chairman. Those were my answers to the questions about the three reclassifications before us. A number of questions have also been asked which were somewhat more general in nature. Finally, of course, I must respond to a number of motions. In the input of the Nanninga Group, but I also thought of the PVV, and also in the motions, it was about the desirability of holding a referendum. Of course there is a dilemma there, because the consideration of the desirability of a reclassification is not necessarily a completely dichotomatic question that is easy to catch in such a yes/no-referendum. You actually have to dig deeper into the question: why is this reclassification really desirable? What does it do for the inhabitants of the municipality? What does it do for the municipality and its position in the region? Moreover, it may be that the basis in different cores of one municipality is different. That's what they just said. Then the city council has to consider how to deal with that. That's my first answer. My second answer has really been expressed here many times. The choice of holding or not holding a referendum is up to the municipal councils. There, within the local context, one can decide, on the basis of the political balance they make in the city council, which instruments to use. One can opt for a referendum. If they'd rather do it another way, so can they. There are more possibilities than just referenda to establish local support. So I am not in favour of making the referendum mandatory. Municipal councils can choose. A referendum can work very well; we know that. But I have faith in those city councils. Let them assess what's necessary. Mr Rombouts was actually wondering whether we made that support too important. Aren't we entirely on support right now? I agree with him that acceptance is not the only criterion on which to assess reclassification proposals. We have also expressed this in the policy framework. Indeed, we need to look at regional cohesion, for example. We need to look at administrative power. So that support is part of the whole thing, but certainly not the only one. And I think you should also see these criteria in conjunction. But it's not a mathematical formula or anything. So it is not true that there is only one outcome of a certain sum. I think that's why it's a good thing you're trying to organize reclassifications from below. It's my favorite thing to do. If you organize them from below, it will automatically lead to broad support. Although we have a lot of discussion here about one of the reclassifications, with one core, there are many reclassifications from the bottom up that are not really the case. Looks like it's working. This is perhaps an immediate solution to another question from Mr Rombouts, on which Mr Kox also made a comment. He asked: if you look back at the approach to reclassifications in the past, can you already tell whether the right choices have been made or not? Should the province have more direction or less? As an example, he mentioned Grave's late connection, which we are pleased with. Could it have been taken from above by a little more control? I believe that Mr Kox took a diametrically opposed position, because he does not want anything on top. He brought in terms that didn't sound very enthusiastic. Mr Rombouts also made an international comparison. He mentioned two Scandinavian countries and Belgium. Of course, we can always learn a lot from Belgium. For example, they form longer than we do. They can also play football better nowadays; that really has to be said. But I don't know if they're better at redefining; I really doubt that. But Mr Rombouts and I may have to talk about this some other time. If you look at the Netherlands, you can see that in the past provinces did indeed take more initiatives to achieve municipal reclassifications. You could sort of draw it on the map, because they were planned. But you just notice, for the past ten or twenty years at least, that there has been increasing resistance to these operations from above, which is mainly concerned with the efficiency of the administration. Since then we have actually turned more gently towards reclassifications that come from the bottom, with support from the beginning weighing along. And it does indeed sometimes lead to more discussions, to longer discussions and sometimes to intermediate steps. But as far as I'm concerned, that greater support does outweigh that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u64	Maybe the question should be asked when we're done reorganising. Because now we see that municipalities that have been reorganised just twenty years ago are being reorganised. This scaling-up goes one step further and further, while it has gone on for hundreds of years in a good way. It is now as if it is all going very slowly, but it has happened very quickly in recent years with this administrative scale increase. Can the Minister tell us when it will be done with these reclassifications? When are the municipalities on a scale with which they can, so to speak, advance 100 or 200 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u65	No, I certainly can't answer that question. I told you, it's not math. Once upon a time there has been the idea that 100,000 is the perfect scale, to which the congregations should be classified, but that is not our philosophy at all anymore. Our philosophy is that you have to have the scale needed to do what municipalities have to do for their inhabitants. It is all at the service of the public cause, at the service of the inhabitants. As we have also given the municipalities more tasks, it is logical that you should also see whether they are feasible on that scale and in that way. But there is still a lot of room for differences in the Netherlands. I have had a discussion with Mr Van Hattem and said that it is not the case that people in a large city are more unhappy than people who are run in a very small municipality. Also people in a large city feel connected to their congregation, feel represented by their city council. So there isn't one perfect size, there isn't one kind of final solution either. Rombouts already mentioned the examples of those other countries. That's how they did it, that's where they just said: from now on, we're going to divide it up like this. That is not the way we do it in the Netherlands. So I can't tell you now when something is ready or not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u66	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u67	Yes, but the Minister does not mention one thing in all these arguments: a congregation as a community. The interrelationship between the population. That element is simply structurally ignored. Now we see it with the Land of Cuijk as well: there almost 30 cores are joined together. The scale is increasing, so the sense of community that a particular village or city has, lacks attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u68	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u69	Can you reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u70	Firstly, I would like to say that there has been no mention of this. On the contrary, I have said about the reclassifications that are before us today that there has been a great deal of attention there. In the case of Maashorst, the whole philosophy is that there must be a lot of attention for the village centers, that they must retain their identity. That's the point of departure. That is the first point I would like to address. The second point is that I think it is also an understatement of what people want to identify with. There are so many people living in a particular neighborhood in a large municipality or in a neighborhood in a large municipality, where they feel at home and with which they identify themselves. And the other way around. I think it's crazy to reason that people have to have a different feeling when their congregation goes into another congregation. No, not at all. That identity doesn't disappear with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u71	I suggest that we now let the Minister conclude her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u72	Yeah, I'm gonna finish up. I come to the specific questions about Grave. The province of Brabant has always argued that Grave should be involved in this reclassification. Would a more controlling role of the province have led to a faster proposal? We don't know. At least it's happened now. We also know that there is good acceptance, given the outcome of the elections. I have promised the House of Representatives to reflect again on the role of the provinces in the reclassifications. The plan is to do that after the summer. Then I would also like to include the experience of these reclassifications. Mr Koole asked how many municipalities have room to remain independent, given that they have been given these tasks. I said that in response to Mr Van Hattem's question. The task package has just grown very much. This means that municipalities have to set up and organise in such a way that they can do the same. At the same time, the municipalities are the government layer that is closest to the citizen. They should also organise that proximity to government. There are different solutions to this. Municipalities also opt for different solutions, through municipal cooperation or reclassification. I also welcome the fact that this space exists, but the essence of everything is that it is perhaps a little outside this debate, and that you are looking at the task of municipalities and that it is in proportion to the resources available to them and, by the way, other instruments. That is, of course, not fully balanced right now. That is another discussion, but I think it is important that it be resolved. Finally, Mr President. I think I will be on the final question before I give the motions an appreciation. That was a question from Mr Kox. He wanted an update of the talks with the VNG on this point. He called it "the financial erosion of the municipalities." I also informed this Chamber last Thursday by letter of the note drawn up by BZK together with the domes, i.e. with the co-governments. That was asked for, here but also in the Lower House. That note actually contains a joint analysis and directions for the problems we are experiencing in administrative and financial relations. That letter's here. It's public. In this way it is ready for the informant, forming parties and anyone who would like to work with it. Finally, Mr President, the motions for resolutions. There's four of them. The first three motions, those are the motions with the letters B, D and G, I'll take it together. Then I also have the motion with the letter "F." I'm gonna take that one apart. The motions with the letters B, D and G are all motions asking for the entry into force of the reclassification laws to be postponed until after a referendum has been held. You also had a bit of a debate about this. Let me stress from my point of view that the present legislative proposals meet all the criteria of the policy framework for the reclassifications. I find it really undesirable to keep these legislative proposals now or to postpone the entry into force of the reclassification laws if they have been adopted by the Chamber. That's why I advise against these motions. In fact, I tend to leave it at that, because that is the core of what I am talking about. I would not speculate at all on what would happen if you took the motions. I dissuade the motions and I sincerely hope that the Chamber does not accept them. Then the motion with the letter "F." It's a little different in nature. Let's see, the operative part says: "At least look at a referendum together with local authorities when carrying out the evaluation." Oh, yeah, exactly. That motion, of course, looks at what that evaluation should look like. Mr Van Hattem has already come to the interrupting microphone twice to ask the same question. I have already said that I do not want to determine how people should be involved. That's why I advise against this motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u73	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u74	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer and the serious way in which she wanted to look at all aspects in the first term. A few things in advance. Where Schaijk goes, there goes Reek. So whatever comes out of that evaluation, that's something we have to keep a close eye on; I think the Minister meant that too. I would also like to respond to the Minister's remark that in the other countries it is said from above: that is how we are going to do it and that is how it is done. Well, of course it wouldn't. If you have been reorganising for ten years, for example in Belgium, you have certainly had consultation with the provincial and municipal authorities. In Belgium too, there has been a lot of consultation with these municipalities and I think too much, because it was even taken into account which mayor was also in parliament, in the sense of: can we vote them mildly in a particular classification or less mildly? That really happened in Belgian. So you can't say, I don't think, that in all those other countries because they did it in one stone but they did it for ten years, it's an approach from above that's not right. I now come to the point that I wanted to make the most today, and that is that writing away the entire role of the province in this process is not wise. This does not mean that the province has to go back to the role of: think on the drawing table how the layout should be and put it through the throat of local units. Absolutely not, and provinces don't work like that anymore. The Minister himself said: I wish to work in consultation with all the other governments. That's how provinces will do it in the future, if they get a role. So I repeat my question: if you could say something to your successors, whatever you yourself might be, would you not want to boost the role of the provinces in that policy framework? Let's not talk about right choices. Let us perhaps talk about whether the reclassification of Noordoost-Brabant after all the legislative proposals I have mentioned this afternoon has been completed or not. Would the Minister care to comment on that? If she says that this is indeed the case, then together we accept that there is a village in the Brabant Gaul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u75	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the first-term questions. We are talking about a very important subject, especially for the municipalities concerned and for the people who live there. What I think we all need to radiate here is that we do justice to the feelings of the people in all these communities. The fact that this does not mean that everyone's wishes are met in a democracy is self-evident, but we can also see that at times the process may not always have been flawless. I have two comments to make. The first is that I welcome the commitment on the evaluation that the approach, design and implementation of the evaluation will be sent to both chambers in advance. I hope that this will happen immediately after the contours of the evaluation are clear. As far as that evaluation was concerned, there was equally a lack of clarity. I've only gotten the answer from the Minister and her officials. To the question of our group by whom the evaluation is carried out, the answer is: the Minister of State is responsible for sending a report on the functioning of the new municipalities to Parliament and the Minister will ensure that the evaluation provides an independent picture. This also means, in my view, that the Minister will decide who will carry out this independent evaluation. That independent image should therefore be about the position of Schaijk and Reek within the new municipality and the desirability of joining these cores with Oss. This is a fairly detailed definition of the role of the organisation carrying out the evaluation. The criteria and frameworks will then be drawn up in consultation with the authorities of the province and the new municipality. But it's not the new town that does that. I think it really is the Minister of the Interior who does that, in consultation with the province and the municipality. The Minister is therefore leading in this; she is the tractor and ultimately she is also responsible. That is my reading, but I would like to ask the Minister if that reading is correct. The second point is the somewhat more fundamental debate. Mr Rombouts pointed out the large-scale way in which municipal reclassifications take place in some other countries. We're doing that more incrementally. One is not necessarily better than the other, but it would be very good, also in the wake of the debate on 11 May on the relationship between the levels of government, to include that kind of thought, of Mr Rombouts and others, in a fundamental debate. We are also having that debate. The Minister also said that she would have talks with the IPO and the VNG to make a note of that. We have just received a preliminary note as a committee this week; no cabinet position yet, but a note with the insights about it. It would be a good thing if this were taken into account in the debate. So that really affects today's discussion, because it is about the tasks of the municipality, which to a large extent determines whether or not to scale up to a larger municipality. In the light of this general and fundamental discussion, I believe that the role of the Minister is crucial, as I said at a certain point. At that time I tabled a motion to strengthen that role or at least urge the informant to pay attention to it through the formation. I would like to retable that motion, as I had already announced. Shall I read her again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u77	Yeah, 'cause I don't know if anyone's got that all over their retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u78	No. The: Mr Koole proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a more organised decentralised administration is desirable;]] [[Whereas this should be promoted in conjunction with the democratic legitimacy of the decentralised administration;]] [[Whereas the role of the Minister of State as guardian of the co-governments within the government is more desirable than ever;]] [[Whereas, for this purpose, the formal position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs should be strengthened, inter alia, as a result of the co-signing of laws directly affecting the local authorities;]] [[Whereas this co-responsibility also refers to budget transfers involving decentralisation and the justification for the way in which the financial consequences of decentralisation are covered;]] [[calls for the strengthening of the position of the Minister of BZK as guardian of democratically elected co-governments within the government to be discussed during the current cabinet formation;]] [[invites the President to convey this wish to the informant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VII-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u79	The people who signed the motion at first, I didn't ask again, so only my signature is underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u80	But I see at least four hands now, so the motion is sufficiently supported, which makes it part of the debate. Is that what you're doing at the end of your input? Yes. Please stand still for a moment, because there is an interruption for you from Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u81	The content of the motion is sympathetic to me, and I would like to do my best to get my group to vote on it, but there are a few things. What does it have to do with today? What does the role of the Minister for the Interior have to do with these reclassification proposals? Can the President declare this point outside the order of the sitting? That's one. Two. Do you still have the motion? I had a little debate with Mr Van der Burg, so I'm not sure if you read it. That should be brought to the attention of the reformer? If you maintain that, we won't go along with it, for that reason. If you take that out, the content is sympathetic to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u82	It has everything to do with today's debate. I made that clear in the first period. I can repeat my arguments for this. In other words, many of the scaled up to larger municipalities, the mergings to large municipalities, are argued, also in the explanatory notes, for the purpose of increasing the administrative power of municipalities. And that, according to the same explanatory statement, this administrative power should be increased, because so many tasks have gone to the municipalities and so on and so on. And so it has to do with the general debate on how many tasks we invest where and on what scale, and whether we should not carry out some tasks in government agencies. So it touches on that general debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u83	I accept the hook. One more thing about the contents of the motion. You say that from now on the Minister of the Interior must always counter-sign as municipalities in charge of a law. Isn't that a lot? You have more parliamentary experience than I do, but aren't that almost all the laws, so to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u84	Well, it's not all the laws. The sentences of the wording of the recitals and the operative part come literally from the opinion of the Council of State. I said that last time. The Council of State agrees. It is not the case that all laws always have to pass through the Minister of the Interior, but it is the law that affects the functioning of the decentralised administration, not only the financial functioning but also the administrative functioning of the decentralised administration. The Minister of the Interior would then have a special position as the guardian of the local authorities to ensure that the local government is not compromised in the financial or administrative sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u85	Here too, I am convinced. If the Council of State says so, I believe so. But now we're gonna have to deal with the formatter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u86	We talked about it last time. It is not an error of state law, but it is not common practice. The President of this Chamber already spoke to the informant at the beginning of the formation. The President of this Chamber may, therefore, transmit messages to the informant. This is an issue, namely the strengthening of the position of a minister, who can only be dealt with during formation. You're gonna have to arrange that at the formation or you're gonna have to wait another four years. As the President can deliver reports on behalf of this Chamber, it is also appropriate in this case to do so on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u87	Yes, I'm a little less flexible than Mr Rombouts. I do not accept the hook, but otherwise it does not matter, because the chairman will say: four hands have gone up plus a signature, so the motion is part of the debate. You also said something else this afternoon. That is to say, I shall retable this motion because, after the vote, I found that a group which was against it was actually in favour of it. That's what I find touching on the hygiene of this Chamber. We shall continue to table the same motion until there is a majority in favour. In the BZK committee or here in plenary when it comes to BZK, we always talk about municipalities and always about the minister and so you always have a hook to file such a motion. I don't think that's the point. I'd like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u88	I'll be happy to respond. It's not like you can always file a motion until you have a majority. The vote on this motion was the week after the debate. The same afternoon, after the vote, one group says: we voted wrong. That is the reason to retable the motion. I've been getting information from the Registry in advance about what's common. The vote has been taken, so that applies. But you can retable the motion on a related subject. This subject is related, that is the hook we were just talking about, and so there is every reason to put this motion to the vote again. There is no reason to believe that this will happen to all motions. How often does a group say on the same afternoon of the votes: I voted wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u89	Mr President, looking at you, too: I believe that even if a group had not said it, a party would be free to retable a motion. That is not therefore relevant for the re-submission. I think it is wrong to retable a motion and use this hook for that. Anyway, it's your right. The VVD Group has the same problem, I would almost say, as Mr Rombouts. We are not an action group, we are not an interest organisation. You should simply include in the negotiations through your party leader what should be included in the government agreement. The only party that can't do that is the party for the elderly, because they have a party leader in the Upper House. But for the rest, it is not the case that we are an interest organisation that says to the President: bring in one of the 2,500 notes that go to the negotiators. How do you look at the role and position of the Chamber in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u90	My group is not an interest organisation, this Chamber is not an interest organisation. But this Chamber is the Chamber that can also give advice on the formation of the Cabinet. Our President did so earlier this year. It's possible. You can give advice. A motion isn't just a thing. It is a Chamber speech, and of course only if there is a majority in favour of it, otherwise the President will not have to act. It is a ruling of the Chamber on a point of formation. That has happened before, so why shouldn't it be possible in this case? It has nothing to do with interest groups. It's a chamber statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u91	In any case, I believe that political parties have other instruments to do so, and certainly that parliamentarians have other instruments to do so than to put the President to work by means of a motion. I will advise my group not to support this motion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u92	As a Member of Parliament, this is the usual way of doing things. As a party member, you might do it through your political leader. It could be. But you have an independent responsibility as a parliamentarians, as a member of the First Chamber, to ask for a ruling from the Chamber, if you can convince the majority of the Chamber. And that's what I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u93	I support the right of Mr Koole of the PvdA to table this motion. That's why I raised my hand as a supporter for filing. But I do agree with the point that Mr Van der Burg has just made about the role of the First Chamber, which does not really fit in with the formation. It's a strange role that's being addressed to us here. I said this earlier in a motion by Mr Rosenmöller on the policy of our former Netherlands Antilles. I have a question for Mr Koole. If we look at the content of what he is proposing, we are talking about the minister as a ruler, as a guardian of local government, and that needs to be strengthened. I also hear him mention a number of things in the debate, for example that a lot of tasks from the Empire have been assigned to the municipalities. Should we not then have the debate on what are the core tasks of municipalities and provinces and what should or should not be laid down by the Empire? Is it desirable to throw such an energy transition over the fence of all those municipalities and let them determine everywhere where to put those wind turbines and the like?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u94	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u95	My question is: should this debate not be held in the broadest sense before we immediately say that the ruler should become the guardian? And how that will be completed, they will have to find out at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u96	That fundamental debate must be held. We started with this on 11 May. The Council of State is also calling for that fundamental debate. I hope that can be implemented. And in order to promote this debate, it would be very nice if this Chamber as a whole could do so with a minister who, as the head of the government, is speaking with this Chamber at a national level, with a strengthened position, so that we can get an even more integrated story towards this Chamber and we, more than hitherto, can make an integral assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u97	Thank you. Then I suggest we finish slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u98	May I respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u99	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u100	Mr Van der Burg has also had several interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u101	I'd like to respond to that. You are already working on your eighth interruption in this debate. Mr Van der Burg has had two so far in this debate. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u102	I meant the repeat interruptions on this point, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u103	Okay, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u104	You are indeed very indulgent in granting interruptions, I must admit. We have an important point to make in terms of content. The point is that the role of the municipalities and provinces needs attention. Can Mr Koole explain why he has already come to the conclusion that it must be the fortified govern ment, while the debate itself still has to take place? There are many other issues that could be discussed, from the inter-administrative programme to the role of the VNG and the IPO as umbrella organisations in everything. Can Mr Koole clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u105	My answer to that would be that it is right at the start of a fundamental debate, so where we stand now, that there should be a minister who can come up with an even more comprehensive vision, including within the cabinet. By an integrated vision, I mean the other areas that affect the decentralised administration than just the area of Home Affairs. If the Minister can see that and deal with it, she can as such inform this Chamber much better and more integrated. That is a good start to that debate, but it is not the outcome of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u106	Thank you, Mr Koole. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a strange sensation to talk about this matter, while something terrible has happened elsewhere in the country. Lots of strength for everyone involved. First of all, I would like to raise a few points. In my first term, I had asked a few questions that I have not yet received an answer from the Minister. First of all, this was about the qualitative and quantitative assessment that is being made. Can the Minister say again what it means by qualitative assessment and what is considered acceptable in this respect? She indicated in the written round that it was qualitatively better than the quantitative outcome of the social support. The second point. In the written round reference was made to the division of the municipality of Haaren. This was seen as an example of how a core can join a neighbouring municipality. Now we see that at Schaijk that opportunity is not offered. Again the question: why does the Minister give this as a shining example, and is that shining example not followed? The Minister had indicated a number of points in the written round on the future stability and governance of the municipality of Maashorst, which could not be assessed without the Schaijk core. Can the Minister indicate how this future resilience and administrative power can be assessed if the Schaijk core is not yet part of the municipality of Maashorst after an evaluation? I have a few other points, like the evaluation itself. There are a lot of things that have come to light that are already more concrete and that should become the direction and framework of the evaluation. I would like to see a little more structured about how that takes shape. I would like to ask the Minister if she can undertake to give a roadmap to the Chamber so that we can keep a finger on the wrist. We were just having a little discussion about scaling up and what the right size and scale is. I was born and raised myself in the municipality of Westerhoven. That was the smallest municipality of Brabant with 1,700 inhabitants at the time. That went fine, too. We shared a mayor with nearby Riethoven. The administration was very close to the citizens. There was a lot of resistance in the nineties when the municipality had to be reorganised. That brings me to my question. The minister says small scale is preserved. Even by scaling up, small scale and identity of the nuclei can be preserved. But it lacks one essential thing, and that is self-government, the right to self-determination over its own core in this matter. Can the Minister indicate how that relates? Mr Rombouts has just referred to Belgium. The smallest municipality in Belgium is currently the municipality of Herstappe near Tongeren. It has 80 inhabitants and is still an independent municipality. Well, I guess it's possible in theory. What are we going to get here in the future? I considered Mr Rombouts' question to be correct: what is going to happen in the region of North-East Brabant in the coming years? Is everything complete or will we be able to reorganise Maashorst and Meierijstad in ten years' time, so that the combination Uden and Veghel will still stand? We do not think it would be desirable, but it may well be the ambition of a next cabinet, or anyone else. Then the tasks from the municipalities. Many tasks from the Empire have now been placed with the municipalities, including the energy transition. I referred to it just now in an interrupting debate with Mr Koole. Can the Minister indicate whether it would be more desirable to lower ambitions among the municipalities? They often don't wait for it at all. For example, this RES is a millstone around the neck in many municipalities. So can the Minister indicate whether it is better to lay down fewer tasks and ambitions with municipalities and thereby better guarantee small scale? Finally, Mr President. I have thought again about Mr Van der Linden's suggestion in the first term. He indicated that there might need to be another motion to hold the votes on the current legislative proposals until referenda have been held in the relevant municipalities. I do not think it is necessary to table a motion on this, because a motion calls on the government to do something, and on the holding of votes we are the Chamber itself. I would therefore like to make a point of order proposal not to vote on these legislative proposals until referendums have been held in the relevant municipalities. My request to the President is that this order of business be considered. So much for the second term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u108	Would you like to redraft your order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u109	In order not to vote on these legislative proposals until referendums have been held in all relevant municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u110	Do not proceed to the vote until referendums have been held. That is an order that we are going to vote on immediately. I'll take a look around. There are a number of people who would like to respond, including Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u111	This is happening very quickly, even what you are doing, Mr. President. We always have to think. I think you've got order proposals to do something now or not. But now it's about an order proposal not to vote next week. Let's just sleep there a few nights before we vote on that order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u112	Following on from what Mr Rombouts said, I am opposed to Mr Van Hattem's procedural proposal. I believe that the legislative proposals are ready to vote on them. That is why I reject the order proposal for now and also for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u113	I have a question. Does this order of business mean that the motions will be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u114	No, that's not the point. Look, if this order proposal is rejected, then those motions are still very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u115	In that case, it's a silly order proposal. The proposal would mean that we still want to make this referendum possible and that we would therefore like to postpone the law. I'd say that's a clean route. But it's either-or: or an order proposal or those motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u116	If it is to be pure then it would mean that I would be able to withdraw the motions at the time when the order proposal would be rejected. But that is not yet on the agenda. As long as that is not yet on the agenda, I shall leave the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u117	I do not think it would be useful to give more instruments to Mr Van Hattem to frustrate the matter, so we do not support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u118	Following on from Mr Rombouts, it would be my idea not to vote on the order proposal now, but to do so next week. But I would strongly oppose the substance of the order proposal. There's something about it: it can't go on until a referendum has been held. This is also a question for Mr Van Hattem. In fact, this means that from the First Chamber, so from at least the state level, you are going to impose binding referendums on the municipalities. I am in favour of referenda, but it is up to the democratic level to decide whether a referendum is to be held. Now you are saying that my question is that you want to impose this on the local communities from a rich level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u119	I want to rephrase it. I would like to give the inhabitants of these local communities the opportunity to express their views on these reclassifications in a referendum. Now it is actually imposed on them: you will soon belong to the next congregation. That is what we are deciding now with a bill from a rich level, without them having anything to say about it. This is therefore a very constructive opportunity to involve citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u120	I conclude, however, that you want to impose an instrument on a municipality from the state level. I'd be against it. I would therefore also oppose the substance of this order proposal. I agree with what Mr Rombouts said at the beginning. We won't be voting on that until next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u121	On a procedural basis, I agree with Mr Rombouts' proposal that we should not vote now, but that we should vote next week and agree on the substance of what has just been said. It's not wise to do this, because we're laying something down from above. In both cases: not now, but next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u122	Does one of the gentlemen who are sitting there debating still want to use the interrupting microphone? He's free.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u123	I wasn't sure if that was allowed at all in the second instance, so I actually wanted to share something with Mr Koole. But now that I get the chance, I want to ask the next question. Mr Koole draws very sharply from Mr Van Hattem who wants to force him into any bill. I understand that in its line: a referendum for it can always come to legislation. Then he'll have to change the ARHI Act. We're not going to deal with that in an order proposal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u124	Then I'll take a look around to see if there's a majority to vote on this order proposal next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u125	Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, it's next week. It may be postponed even longer if the Chamber agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u126	I'm talking about a majority here. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u127	I agree with everything, but I support the direct vote on an order proposal. If it isn't, then it's good and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u128	It says, "The vote will be taken immediately unless the Chamber decides otherwise." So you were right to say that, but there's more. Therefore, if there is now a majority to vote on this order proposal next week, I would propose to do so before the other votes were taken, so it has been decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u129	Fine. Then we'll vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u130	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u131	Mr. Chairman. It's a little weird, isn't it? We talk about democracy and the organisation of our administration all day long and Peter de Vries is shot in Amsterdam. A while back, a lawyer was shot. Now a famous journalist gets shot. I think the whole room's upset about that message. Anyway, we can't talk about that here. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole is reposing a motion. That's not common around here. On the other hand, it is on the agenda of the day that the same motion can always be tabled. He gives a specific reason for it. I think he'll be free to do that. We'll vote on it next week. However, his motion is part of a larger whole. This is about modernising our administrative organisation. We discussed it recently, on 11 May. We have already adopted a motion on it in 2012, so I do not need to retable it. A motion has been passed. At that time, the Prime Minister, who is still our Prime Minister, promised that this coherent vision of modernising the administrative organisation should be put in place. I believe that the Minister, whom I would like to thank for all the answers, has not answered the first question I asked: when are we going to do that? The reference to other countries and the fact that it is not fun there is not enough. We don't have to do what Belgium does. We don't have to do what Denmark does. That does not relieve us of the obligation to do something, especially since this Chamber has asked for it and the government has promised it in the past. It may have been made clear from the remarks made by many groups in this Chamber that this need is still there. Make a plan for how we handle this country's administrative organization. We are not going to see that again today, but we have agreed that there will be a follow-up to the debate on 11 May. That question will really have to be addressed, Mr Koole's question, but also the broader question. That is what I wanted to say to remind the Minister that that question has not been answered. Second. I would like to thank the Minister for pointing out to us that a report on the financial situation of the Dutch municipalities has now come to both chambers. I haven't studied it yet. I'll definitely do that. We do not get there before the recess, but after the recess that will certainly be discussed. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I am pleased that there will be a real evaluation in both Dijk and Waard and in Maashorst, in which the population will certainly be involved. The Minister has emphasized that time and time again. Of course, that is obvious, but those who were in doubt may now be convinced of it. That's plain language. The municipality, the province, the parliament and the government are going to play a role in this, especially since it came in at the request of the House of Representatives, I think the entire House of Representatives. I think that the decision we are taking today is also the best decision for the inhabitants of the parts of the municipalities who are not yet satisfied. This at least gives them clarity. I think that all the groups in this Chamber have made it clear that we too will monitor this. For the rest, my group will vote in favour of the four proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u132	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Finally, Mr Van Pareren has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the ex-post evaluation. Much has been said about it in the debate, such as: how is it to be done, how is it to be done? We're having a hard time with it, aren't we? We're talking about acceptance in this law. That's important. It needs to give peace to the communities it concerns. They're people we're talking about. They are people for whom important decisions are made in their communities. It is important that there is a proper balance in a law. A law that is ready has support. This law doesn't give the energy to the people, like: let's go for it. It's a brake. It's a hand brake that's in there. That's too bad. Moving forward today's problem is not a good thing. Solve it now. First clean up and then get to work on that law. Our proposal remains: keep that law. Make sure this step is taken and then move on. If there is to be an evaluation agency, as a group, I would prefer not an agency or organisation, but a committee of wise women, so to speak. That's a pleonasm, so you could say: a committee of wise people. It is much better to have a group so involved in the community assess what is happening there. That is what I and my group consider to be a very important issue. Prevention is better than cure. I have one more question for the Minister. I heard a lot of questions in the debate about the involvement of the province. Suddenly there was also a blur: how is the involvement of IPO? IPO is an unelected body over the provinces. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u134	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Yes, that's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u135	Mr President, thank you. I also agree with the words of horror that have just been expressed about the horrible event in Amsterdam. Mr. Chairman. There are still a number of questions and comments. I heard Mr Rombouts right. I also said in my term that Reek and Schaijk are inextricably linked. We'll keep that in mind. That's gonna have to turn out to be the case. In comparison with other countries, Mr Rombouts referred to this point himself in particular in relation to the question of the culture of administration and the organisation of administration in each country. We have grown together in many ways in the European Union, but there you can see the great differences between countries, including cultural differences. For example, we all know the French tradition. I myself have just learned that Slovakia has the municipality with the smallest number of inhabitants, namely seven inhabitants. I didn't know either, but I can. We can do all that, but I think we are very much looking for a way that suits us, that suits the Dutch and suits the municipalities. I think we all think the municipality is an important layer of government together. With that, I don't want to write down the provinces. Of course, they also have the role that Mr Rombouts attaches to them. We're only looking together for the answer to the question of how to implement that directional role. The imposition of this direction from above, with a form of perseverance, has in practice led to a great deal of resistance. Of course, this direction can also be implemented in a different way, namely by standing on the side of the municipalities and by working with them to find the best solution, indeed by recognizing the problems that sometimes exist and which in some cases are simply not soluble on the scale of a given municipality. If Mr Rombouts means that, I think we have moved a long way in each other's direction. I can't tell if the reclassifications are now ready in North-East North Brabant. I am afraid to give that guarantee, but I think it is an important step. This is what I am saying to Mr Koole. I think he's right. I think he's taken a good look. Because it is incorporated into the law, the commissioning authority lies with the Minister of BZK. The Minister of State will also be the one to inform the Chambers. Above all, I wanted to stress that I think that as a minister I can only do this well if I work well with the other governments. In this case, of course, that is the municipality, but also the province and the other municipality involved. So that's the way to implement that. So I think we agree on that point. Of course, I am not going to discuss the motion, because it is a speech motion. We have, of course, had a debate on the content here before. I would just like to point out that the Council of State's report makes specific reference to this point. The documents on which I was merely the door to the Chamber, in the agenda drawn up with the co-governments, also call for attention to be paid to those recommendations and to the role of direction. Once again, that is not something I am saying on the basis of my current responsibility or my political responsibility. That is more information that is now available to the informant, the forming parties, and also to all other parties. Then Mr Van Hattem. He says that I have not given an answer in terms of quality and quantity, but I have even said a few times: it is not mathematics. It's not quite dichotomic either. So you can't say yes or no. You can't say zero and one. It is not all in figures, and that is why this qualitative assessment is very important. Hairs are called. That is not necessarily a shining example, but simply as an example. As I said to Mr Koole, what is the role of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in terms of evaluation and the framework? I've already agreed to inform the Chambers of the set-up. The Secretary of State will do that, whether I am or my successor. So that is not a roadmap and not the exchange of all kinds of ideas on the question of how. That is what I have collected to a sufficient extent. The law guides that. Some suggestions have been made in debates. Soon we will just have to get to work on this, but the Chamber will be informed about it. Then scale up and the ideal size. I think that Mr Van Hattem and I will simply continue to disagree. I think sometimes it seems a little nostalgic in nature. My starting point is really another one. I like nostalgia and I like history, but I really care about the tasks that municipalities have for their inhabitants and how to implement it. Of course, I think it is important that there is a proper balance between the tasks of the municipalities and the resources and instruments available to them. That's what I just said in response to another question. I think that balance needs to be improved. In doing so, you should never rule out the possibility that tasks might be better organised at a different level. I think you should always be open to that discussion. The opposite is that precisely the proximity of these municipalities is, therefore, the government layer closest to the Dutch population, which is often a reason for wanting to invest these tasks there. I do not think Mr Van Hattem would want everything to suddenly be centralised and organized at a distance. I think that does not make the people of the Netherlands much better. We have to give them the tools to carry it out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u136	There's quite a discussion point behind that, if you're talking about proximity. This proximity is getting less and less because of the increasingly large municipalities. The distance between Overloon, near the Limburg border, and Grave is perhaps around 30 kilometers. So the physical distance within such a municipality is increasing. This reduces the interrelationship and therefore the proximity. But these tasks are to a large extent laid down by those municipalities, without those municipalities really waiting for them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u137	So your question is, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u138	Can the Minister approach from her point of view that the municipalities themselves should also consider what tasks they would or would not want to have? Should they want to have the tasks of the energy transition and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u139	Mr Van Hattem says that they do not want these tasks. I would say that they would very much like to have these tasks. The municipalities are particularly involved in the energy transition, for example. They can use the RES's to implement this in a good way. However, it is still a little out of order in this debate. I think that Mr Van Hattem and I look at this a little differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u140	I suggest we not continue this now. It's out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u141	I would like to make a point about order. The Minister indicated that, among other things, one of the reasons for the scaling-up was the completion of the tasks of the energy transition. This is a very important point, if you are talking about the role of the municipalities and the tasks for which these municipal reclassifications would be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u142	In any case, you have received the answer. You can repeat the question, but the Minister is not going to give another answer. I suggest we finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u143	I'm sure we'll come back to it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u144	I look forward to that. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u145	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be with Mr. Kox. We did have a good debate here on 11 May. Even then, I said... Mr Kox says there must be a vision, there is no vision. Well, there is a vision. I designed that vision in October 2019 in a letter that also went to the Chamber about the future of public administration. After that, I have always given this substance to it. Only, the mind shouldn't stop. That is what Mr Kox is advocating and, of course, I fully agree with him. The mind shouldn't stop. You need to see how the practice develops. You must always be open to how administrative relations develop. That is why I made that agenda with the co-governments, precisely in order to deal with such important questions in good time. But it's not like that wasn't the case during this period. I would like to remind Mr Kox once again, because of course that has happened. But it should indeed, once again, be involved in the formation to properly discuss and agree on administrative relations and related finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u146	Indeed, Mr Kox advocated this years ago. I have also mentioned that the Council of State is advocating this fundamental debate. It's an ongoing process, you might say. The Minister has now drawn up the note together with the umbrella organisations. I understood from the accompanying letter that it was still sent to the informant, because the informant did not ask for it. Is that a correct point of view? Is that right? And if so, why shouldn't you be able to give it to the informant on your own initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u147	This has actually been solved by the fact that it has now been sent to both chambers, with which it has become a public document and is available to everyone. It is true that no specific request has come from the informant. But the co-governments are ready and the parties now have this information, so I think that's gonna be fine now. Then Mr Van Pareren. Perfection doesn't exist, I don't think. If you wait until you have the perfect outcome, especially in administrative processes, we would never make a decision in this country. You have to accept that, in order to move forward, you have to compromise and find solutions if there is a problem somewhere. The solution chosen for this proposal, this legislative amendment, this reclassification, is that we agree on an evaluation with each other in order to be able to take this step. I think that's a good way to move forward, because you can take that step. There's been talk of something that's not there all the time. Now it becomes reality. Then it can prove itself in practice, or not. Then you evaluate that and then you can see what consequences you're going to have. I think that in itself is a good way to work. Mr Van Pareren had some reservations with an office. I called it an agency, but I always use the word "independent." I want it to be independent and I want wise people involved. I think the assignment is important. That was also outlined in this Chamber. In my view, the involvement of the other authorities is also important. And, indeed, sensible people need to look at it. The IPO has no role in this. Mr Van Pareren also asked about this. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u148	Thank you, Minister. I agree with what you have said and with what some Members have said. I have also just taken note of the attack on Mr Peter R. de Vries. I'm shocked by it. And I'm with him in mind, with his family and with his friends.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-13.u149	I have come to deal with the four legislative proposals. I'm going to have to do it by bill, so you're gonna have to sit tight for a while. Would one of the members like to vote first on the bill 35619, Merging the municipalities of Landerd and Uden? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on bill 35619 next week. Would one of the members then like to vote on the bill 35620, Merging the municipalities Boxmeer, Cuijk, Mill and Sint Hubert and Sint Anthonis? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote next week on bill 35620. Would one of the Members then like to vote on the bill 35842, Amendment to the proposal for a law to merge the municipalities of Boxmeer, Cuijk, Mill and Sint Hubert and Sint Anthonis? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on bill 35842 next week. Finally, does one of the members wish to vote on the bill 35621, Merging the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on bill 35621 next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Mr Van Hattem asked for three motions to be put to the vote before the vote on the legislative proposal. I see he agrees with that. We now come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, and especially our staff who made this meeting possible. I'll close the meeting and wish you all at home.
