ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	Good morning, everyone. I'll resume the meeting. The next item is the Act implementing the regulation on identity cards. I would like to welcome Secretary of State Knops of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the members. Today we have Mrs Rajkowski, Mr Bosma, Mrs Van Ginneken, Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Van Dijk. And we have two maiden speeches. Of course, we are always very pleased about that. The first will take place now. That belongs to Mrs Rajkowski of the VVD. Enjoy it too!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is already two years since a cold Monday in March a disaster took place in Utrecht. Murder at the 24th Oktoberplein, the Utrecht tram attack. As you can imagine, that day and the days that followed were a mix of anger, sadness and terror. But the days after that also followed pride. Proud of Utrecht's resilience. Utrecht could easily have ignited in riots, hatred and polarisation. But what happened? A police officer got a standing ovation at a neighborhood meeting later that week. I can still see the tears in his eyes. During the quiet journey on the Friday afterwards, Utrechters zipped their banners together as one representation of Utrecht's identity and resilience. Visible was the text "Utrecht never bends." Mr. Chairman. This is my maiden speech where I'd like to tell you how I stand in life. That's this, then. I pursue that resilience that my city and my municipality of Utrecht showed in that terrible week. Inspiration, resilience and resilience I find in a different way a little longer ago in my family history. Some of my family had a hard time in the Second World War in Poland, where Poland was regarded as second-class citizens, were imprisoned and had to work. Communism after that, in which there was no room for one's own identity, was no fun either. My grandfather and grandmother left home to build a better life for their children here in the Netherlands, in the Drenthe Assen. Despite all the misery they were loving to everyone around them. You don't realize it until you get older.Now I'm not that old, yet a little older.But secretly they are a great source of inspiration for me. For me, they are the example of how you can deal with life when you're struggling. Mr. Chairman. Be safe and be free to express your own identity to make something beautiful of your life. We're talking about safe IDs today. Although this sounds boring, it is precisely this change of law that makes it difficult for terrorists, cross-border criminals and other malicious people to travel through Europe with false ID cards. It is precisely because our identity cards are becoming safer and more reliable that we can guarantee safe and free travel within Europe for our citizens. Fortunately, the fingerprints are only stored on the map. And that's nice, because giving off a fingerprint isn't nothing. Two more points on the proposal. My group is concerned about fingerprinting older people and people with hyperhidrosis, for example. That sounds specific and like a small group, but it is often difficult. However, we must ensure that they too can simply obtain an identity card. Can the Secretary of State take this point and how we can practically deal with it into account in the evaluation? Mr. Chairman. Then there is my second point. Can the Secretary of State undertake to ensure that the costs and waste associated with the introduction of the new document, namely the disposal of the remaining stock of ID cards, remain as low as possible? EUR 1 million is very little money in the whole budget, but a bucket of money for our taxpayers. Mr. Chairman. I'm not standing here before myself. And how my family history went down only says something about my motivations. I will still have to prove myself to you and to the Netherlands. I'm sure I can promise you that being free and safe is at the top of my list in the digital world. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. A philosopher, Wittgenstein, said that there are things where there is no meaningful language. Maybe that includes politics. At least I have tried and I hope to be able to bring the pride and resilience of Utrecht, Leidsche Rijn, Vleuten-De Meern, Haarzuilens and the loving spirit I have learned from my family into this arena in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you very much for this warm, beautiful maiden speech, so that we know where you come from, or where you "get out," I might say when you come from Assen. We shall suspend the sitting briefly, so that colleagues can also congratulate you, because this is a very happy moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	We will continue with the next speaker, Mr Martin Bosma of the PVV. He is taking a little longer time than he had previously been informed, but of course he is invited to do so, Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. A big compliment to our new colleague, Mrs Rajkowski. A beautiful maiden speech, as a maiden speech should be: a personal story and then fluent on to such a boring subject as this. Her words that communism was no fun will be with me. It might be a little understatement with 94 million dead, but okay. It's also nice that Wittgenstein came up. I particularly look forward to receiving many quotes from the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus of Wittgenstein, which cannot be quoted often enough. The Secretary of State agrees with me. By the way, who's today's second maiden speaker?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's Mrs. Van Ginneken from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	That wish is a great success and strength. It only hurts for a second! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I read an interview with this Secretary of State in Elsevier Weekblad in which he reported his desire to return to the KVP. I actually share that desire a little bit. The KVP once made 30% of the votes with a nice right-wing program, and there were 400,000 members. But unfortunately, the KVP started merging with all kinds of left-wing Protestants and now they're stuck with the baked pears. These poor KVPs are now being lectured by female vicars with orange-painted hair who spend all day saluting refugees and thinking that the kingdom of heaven is full of wind turbines. What we now call the left is from May 1968, but meanwhile all these hippie ideas have become commonplace because they have become ideals of the elites of the Netherlands. Political correctness, aversion to the West, adoration of everything that comes from the Third World, tolerance to drugs, the woke ideology, all from May 1968. And also gender ideology is part of that weird left-wing cocktail. It means that there are no more men and no more women. There are 287 genders. Everyone's a little gay. Concepts such as "toxic masculinity" and "mansplaining" are those cries from the feminist knekelhuis. This Secretary of State is unfortunately a willless toy in the hands of those sectarian gender activists. The gender report on the Dutch identity card has disappeared. After all, there are no more men and no more women. What a load of crap! Strangely enough, he left the announcement of the decision to D66 Minister Van Engelshoven, who had the education for the past four years beaten but committed himself to gender-neutral toys, a matter of priorities. As Nausicaa Marbe wrote in De Telegraaf: "Minister Van Engelshoven is apparently as foldable wax in the hands of pressure groups." How else can you explain the ausradiation of the sex on the identity card? This secretary of state let himself be overwhelmed by a D66 minister who is not at all about the identity cards; that's what he's about. The KVP is farther away than ever. As Nausicaa Marbe already wrote: "Van Engelshovens D66 likes to mortify our bodies. As the Donor Act managed to make these bodies state-owned even before the death, that party now tramples on the sex because of "unneeded sex registration"." The cry "unnecessary" is used to gild the pill. Well, it's not necessary, so let's just cut it out. The reality is that the obnoxious gender ideology has murmured in our identity card. It is a public secret that this Secretary of State would have preferred to have become a member of the government in another department, in Defence, for there lies his heart and his past as a professional military. That makes perfect sense, but that didn't happen. Why not? Well, because a woman had to be a minister there. That was Ank Bijleveld. This is how progressive ideals work: on the one hand there are no men and no women anymore, but on the other hand women must be promoted. Strange. D66 Minister Van Engelshoven is also in favour of quotas for women. Her toys are genderless, but not her policies. Women therefore no longer exist and therefore the identification of the identity card must disappear. In the meantime, women need to be promoted, and then they do exist. Greetings from the left-liberal madhouse, I'd say. There was never a debate about the elimination of the sex here in the Lower House of the States-General, yet the highest body of our democracy. With regard to the budget for the Interior, I did ask the Secretary of State a question about it between my nose and my lips. He came up with an explanation "that society is asking for the removal of the gender indication." Then where is this society? In the newspapers we read that the gender-neutral drama comes from the COC. What's the COC? That's a club that's totally dependent on government funding. It is therefore the government itself that informs the government in the form of the Secretary of State that the gender marking must disappear. That's how our democracy works. So the government just listens to themselves, just like at the climate tables. That's where the government meets with Milieudefensie. What is Environmental Defense? That's a shred of funded organization. The deletion of the term'sex' sheds a stark light on our democracy, namely that democracy is a joke after all. Democracy? You'd say sovereignty lies with the people. But it's not. It's with a small group of highly educated citizens. It's a Ph.D. Sendicture. People who adhere to the left-liberal ideology, i.e. climate socialism, mass immigration and Europhilia, control the institutions of the Netherlands, such as the media, universities, high civil service, justice, art, museums and so on. Together we call that the left-liberal elites of the Netherlands. Everything that fits into the ideas of May 1968 becomes fashion within the left-liberal elites, such as gender ideology. 'Cause how's it going in practice? The Dutch Railways, led by a D66'er, abolish the saying on the trains: ladies and gentlemen. The NPO, led by a D66'er, transmits all kinds of programs around that gender ideology, without any rebuttal. And then D66 newspaper NRC Handelsblad gets over calling hosanna. The Council of State, led by a D66 man, sees it's good. If you understand that, you understand a lot of things that happen in the Netherlands. Many things that the people do not want at all, but they become policies, such as mass immigration, EU madness, climate socialism and the abolition of Black Piet. If you disagree with such things, there are always D66 judges to call you to order: see the trial against my group leader because he said something that half the population agrees with. See also the abolition of the gender marking on the identity card. The Chamber has nothing to say; he doesn't even talk about it. My question to the Secretary of State: why is he allowed to eat the cheese of bread by an activist D66 minister with genderless toys? It's about the IDs, isn't it? What do you mean, noises from society? Where? Why does he confuse the politically correct COC with society? Is that the interpretation of the concept of subsidiarity, which the CFP rightly protected? What has made the world better by abolishing m and v on our identity card? I'd like an explanation. If there are any men left, I'll ask former military Knops. Or did those guys who landed on Normandy's beach especially camp with toxic masculinity? And should the men who led Raymond Knops as lieutenant colonel in Iraq have spoken out more about their non-binary feelings? Today, too, the identity card is being used politically and once again, it is the extreme left that wins. Here too, I miss someone from the KVP who will put an end to this. The new, please note: Dutch identity card is 'I quote the explanatory memorandum 'the result of an EU regulation'. It does not need to be transposed into national legislation, but it works directly. In other words, orders that need to be executed without question. Basil Fawlty of Fawlty Towers, said in the episode Don't mention the War! roughly the same, with the text "orders that must be obeyed without questions." It is the EU that is speaking to us. But it goes even further. National law which is contrary to the Regulation should be deleted or amended. It is a total humiliation of an once so proud country. The GDR had more to say within the Warsaw Pact. What are these demands, then, which need to be followed in heel-licking? It is on page 4 of the explanatory memorandum of this law. "Member States are obliged to grant mutual access to fingerprints on each other's identity cards." In short, our fingerprints are going to go all over the EU! The EU is a life-threatening organisation with the aim of destroying our national sovereignty and promoting mass immigration. Influx from the Third World needs to be maximized. Frans Timmermans, EU Commissioner for Labour, is a member of the Labour Party, with nine seats, announces that diversity needs to be extended to the smallest village in the EU, i.e. that third world people must be welcomed everywhere. That is the promised country that the great European Empire has in store for us. What is Brussels different from our mortal enemy? The second requirement of the Great European Empire under German leadership is that the EU should monitor the impact of this regulation on identity card. Hello! Member States should provide the necessary data for this purpose. Yeah, Guy Verhofstadt wants to know everything about us, right up to our biometrics. That's how curious he is. That has to be delivered. Citizens must report in person. 1984 is a fact. Mr. Chairman. None of this can be defended. Even the EU's biggest cheerleaders in this Chamber, Volt, are absent. Even they apparently do not like this coup d'état and they are not present to scream hip hip hooray for a moment. It cannot be defended either. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the EU is a sinking ship. Brexit is becoming a huge success. Companies move to the UK, including our own Shell and Unilever, the Ajax and Feyenoord of Dutch business. Yeah, they want to sit in the country of the Brexit. Economic growth goes through the roof there and Brexit becomes more popular every day. Just last week's election. Labour, which is anti-brexit, was destroyed. Hip hip hooray! And around the corona, the EU shows that it is completely incompetent, a danger to public health. The former Minister of the Interior, Ronald Plasterk, describes that so beautifully. He also says: the goal of the EU is to become a country. And that club needs to get our fingerprints and our biometrics? Mr President, not in a thousand years!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	You yourself indicated that you needed about 10 minutes. Will you come to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	Here's to it. Mr President, is it all trouble and torment? No, because you know, I'm the sunshine in the house. No, there's hope. Sometimes there is even light in this left-liberal darkness. I am thinking of those tough conductors of the Dutch Railways, who continue to say illegally, to the D66 dictatorship, 'best ladies and gentlemen'. They provide a little bit of resistance and a little hope. It's up to them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, too. Then, after cleaning again of course, we go to Mrs Van Ginneken of D66 for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the identity card, and for the sake of clarity: the proof of administrative identity, because this identity card does not answer the question of who I really am. I wish it were that easy. In my case, it took 40 years before I dared to conclude out loud who I am. I was about seven, eight years old. It was a Saturday night. Together with my two older sisters I sat, with freshly washed hair and in a clean pajamas, a family tradition in our family on the sofa in front of the TV. We all had a cup of neatly distributed chips on our lap, another tradition from my childhood. We watched TV with the whole family. I don't remember what program it was, but there was a man in the picture who wanted to be a woman. That's what I think it was called. I saw a woman struggling with the judgments of the outside world and struggling with the male echo of her body. To get rid of her beard growth, she had to undergo an endless series of hair removal treatments and for each treatment she had to grow her beard for a week. We looked over her shoulder in the mirror while she was making herself up. On her jaw and chin were countless thick black hairs. She tried her best to ignore it, but at some point she broke and cried tears of despair. I've never seen anything like it. Of course, I'd seen men in a dress on TV a lot of times, always meant to raise hilarity. But this wasn't funny. Right away, I realized why not. I felt kindred with this woman. I felt like I was looking at myself. Suddenly I understood myself. My dad didn't think it was funny either. "Dirty faggot," he grunted at the TV. It was obvious. What I felt was dirty. So I decided to never express these feelings and never think about it again. Of course, that decision was very naive. The girl I was, in fact, kept forcing herself on me over and over again in the years that followed. That frustrated intimate relationships also got in the way of friendships and alienated me from myself until I was brave and strong enough to take my feelings seriously and accept their consequences. Now I am the first to stand here as an open transgender woman at the heart of our democracy. I know my father would have been proud of me. I'm grateful to him. My father's normative attitude was an attempt to protect me, to protect me from the harsh society that would await me, a society in which otherwise his often mercilessly punished. His corrective signals have given me the alertness and ability to adapt to circumstances. I'm a survivor. It was precisely that skill that I needed very much during my transition, because our society can be very hard for everyone else who is different. People are confronted by fear and uncertainty-fed rhetoric. For an example, I would very much like to refer to Mr Bosma's contribution. People are disadvantaged by institutionalized discrimination. People get beat up for who they are. This is not only terrible for those people themselves, but also for our society as a whole, because I know how you can feel forced to suppress your own creativity, knowledge, ambition, love and commitment, to make you invisible out of self-protection and to conform to the expectations of others. Intolerance breaks so much beauty in the bud. Fortunately during my transition I also experienced support from dear friends who were there unconditionally for me, from transgender people who preceded me, from role models in the media, starting with the transwoman I saw on TV when I was 8. Other transgender people see a role model in me now. That's honorable, but I came here thanks to a path many others have paved for me. With my work here in the Chamber, I hope to extend that path a little bit, make transgender a little bit more normal again and make it a little more visible. Mr. Chairman. I'm a hopeful person. I managed to retake myself on the mores with my transition. And now I am standing here, in the most diverse Chamber in the history of our country, even though there is still plenty to be desired on that point. We must succeed together in overcoming the normative society that we ourselves have constructed. Surely we must be able to understand that space for one is not at the expense of space for the other? Surely we must succeed in creating a society in which everyone counts and everyone participates? Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the ID today. At a practical level, this is about a name, and about a gender mark, which I shall be speaking about at a later date, to the pleasure of Mr Bosma. Today it's about a fingerprint and a flag. But the deeper proof of identity lies in the ability to see that we all share the same desire; the desire to be seen as who we are. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the content of the bill we are discussing today. The proposal aims to improve security within and at the EU's borders by tackling fraud involving identity cards and residence documents. That is, of course, a commendable goal in the basics. However, as you know, my group is not very enthusiastic about the regulation. We discussed this in 2018. And we are not enthusiastic about its implementation. The big question is and remains: what is the point, what is the necessity? The rule to store fingerprints on passports has been in place for years, and yet only a quarter of all Member States have the equipment to read it at airports. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State what this proposal on identity cards is really going to add. And how does the Secretary of State weigh that added value compared to the inherent risks of storing more biometric data? In short, I would like to hear a reflection on proportionality, because it is a major breach of privacy for an unclear return. I am also curious whether fingerprints issued by other Member States can now be read in the Netherlands. And what about in other Member States? Can the Secretary of State also explain whether, and how, the regulation will be assessed nationally and at European level? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know how waterproof the proposal is. Are the documents for people who have a temporary restriction on giving fingerprints, not just a loophole in the law? How can we prevent these temporary cards from being used for fraud and thereby further undermine the usefulness of the proposal? And what happens if you are actually permanently unable to give a fingerprint? Do you have to apply for a temporary document all the time? Is that fair? Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal also provides that exceptions are no longer possible to the personal obligation to appear in the application for identity cards, even for serious reasons. This would be contrary to the regulation. But I can imagine that this exception has very good ground regularly and helps people out of the fire. After all, these are "heavy reasons'. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how was this settled in the regulation on fingerprints on passports at the time? And is this contradiction really so clearly established, or is there not another sleeve to be adjusted here? Then there's privacy. I told you, this is a major breach. That is why I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether this regulation opens up the storage of other biometric data. And if so, are the safeguards sufficient? The way of storing is also an important point. In the past, a majority of the Chamber has already opposed central storage of fingerprints. Can the Secretary of State confirm to me that only decentralised storage will now be used, and that the law does not allow for central storage? Okay, Mr. Chairman. I'll close with a positive note. After all, it's still my maiden speech. I think there is a bit of a division of opinion in the Chamber on the inclusion of the European flag. However, the inclusion of this flag is, in my view, a good signal that makes people aware of the fact that our European cooperation enables free movement within the Union. I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you very much for the warm, loving maiden speech you have made here today. There are many colleagues who would like to congratulate you. I'll be the first to congratulate you. May I invite you to stand here in front of the chair? I see flowers for you. I will suspend the sitting for a moment so that you can receive the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	We are going to the third speaker, no, the fourth speaker now. That's Mrs. Van der Plas from the BoerCitizen Movement. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We need to get the human size back. Confidence in government needs to be restored. A new governance culture. Citizens are anxiously watching what we, as government, are all going to do to make this possible. And now we are here to debate the Implementing Regulation on identity cards, a European regulation that requires Member States, in our case the Netherlands, to tighten up security requirements for IDs and residence documents, against fraud, terrorism or cross-border crime. I'm getting a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yes, I'm afraid that's indeed your phone. That never happens again after today, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	No. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u17	A reprimand from this chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yeah, you're damn right I did. Fortunately, the Netherlands has managed to ensure that the Dutch identity card does not need to be replaced before the current expiry date. So much for the good news; now the bad news. If you want to purchase or renew an ID so far, you have to go to the local office. Does that apply to everyone? No, not for everyone. If you are so sick that this is not possible, or if you are disabled and are unable to go to the town hall, an exception can be made, as long as the applicant's identity can be checked with sufficient certainty: is that ID really for that person? That makes sense. This amendment removes this possibility from the law. The European government assumes mistrust rather than trust. This guaranteed possibility is removed from the law because it would be required by the regulation. However, the explanatory memorandum states that lower regulation looks at home visits. My question then is whether it is necessary to delete this guarantee at law level. And isn't there randomness here, one municipality is and the other municipality isn't? Why didn't the Netherlands act against this? I think it is possible for the Netherlands to make an exception to this. That space, I believe, offers Europe. In other areas, we are doing the same; think of the super-statutory legislation that is being passed on to Dutch farmers and gardeners on top of EU rules. Then the Netherlands also stands at the front to expand the rule grain. Well, make a new rule now, namely that municipalities are obliged to make house visits to people who are unable to come to the town hall themselves. The regulation now also requires that a European flag be placed on the ID certificate. Symbolic display of EU power. As far as we are concerned, the government could have made a point against this in the negotiations. The Dutch are about to push the EU through Brussels again. When you drive in the countryside in the Netherlands, you increasingly see your own flags: the Achterhoek flag or the Frisian flag. People are proud of their own identity. But no, the EU flag will and must. Mr President, once again. It is very important that the application procedure for an ID is accessible to everyone, despite illness or any other condition. Ensure that this access remains guaranteed in the law. One final question to the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State explain further the price increases that will result from this legislation, and in particular how to prevent financially vulnerable citizens from having to bear these costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, too. Then we will go to the last speaker, Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA, of course not until after the cleaning has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In front of us lies the Act Implementing Regulation ID cards. The CDA is in principle positive about this. However, we would like to highlight two points: the usefulness and necessity of the proposal versus the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, and the practical applicability and cost of this proposal. Usefulness and necessity versus privacy: the aim is to equalise security levels within the EU. The differences are still large, resulting in equally high risks. Fraud and abuse of identity cards and unsafe border situations have increased. We believe it is important to reduce fraud and increase security. This proposal is in line with this. If we then have reliable identification, it will also be easier to fulfil the objective of using identity cards in order to be able to travel and stay freely. That too is an important point for the CDA. However, the Regulation leads to the processing of biometric data. This affects people's fundamental rights, in particular the established right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data. Any violation of these fundamental rights must be justified. The specific safeguards that contribute to the protection of personal data are therefore important in this case, despite the tightening up of procedures, which we are generally not in favour of. Then there is the practical applicability and the cost. I already indicated this: we're going to weigh up procedures and make extra costs. We say goodbye to an old piece of stock, software needs to be adapted, additional costs are incurred in connection with the appearance obligation, certificates need to be developed and network connections need to be adapted, to name but a few. The public will also see something about this. The starting point for the transfer of travel and identity documents costs is cost-covering funding. In the end, that means one-on-one passing on to the citizen. Taking fingerprints, especially if it has to be done in people's homes, we also think it is important that this can take more time and will increase the cost of the application process. Biometric data may only be collected by qualified personnel. So that will also have to be trained. Additional communication and explanation also require official hours that cannot be used for other service to our citizens. The result is: higher fees, in addition to in many cases an increasing ozb, rising waste taxes, thus adding a higher cost for the citizen. Of course, we'll get an answer straight away: it's just a little one and it only comes once every ten years. But we really need to be critical of these little ones. I'm just looking at my debates over the last two weeks. In that I asked for glass fibre to be unlocked in white areas; these are costs for the municipalities. Yesterday we talked about the WGR; costs for the municipalities. We really need to continue to look at all those small cost items that are going to be piled up for the municipalities and, therefore, for the citizens, because it is getting worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you very much, but you can stand still for a while. I thought someone wanted to ask another question, but that's not the case. Then we have reached the end of the first term of office. We're gonna suspend for 20 minutes until 11:35, and then the meeting continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u22	The Secretary of State is ready for the first term. I am happy to give him the floor for his answer to the parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry it took a little longer. The system was shut down, and then we need to switch to manual mode. I hope that I will answer all the questions you have asked in the first term. If that is not the case, then again I apologise for that and then I will come back to that in the second term. I should like to congratulate Mrs Rajkowski and Mrs Van Ginneken on their maiden speech. That is always a special moment, especially now that they have both personally linked it to the mission they are fulfilling here. In doing so, I wish them both every success in the coming period, but also pleasure. The Passport Act: something boring for some, something very dynamic for others, because there are all kinds of dimensions attached to it. I refer to the dimension of the gender issue, the dimension of privacy, the dimension of security. They all come together in this law. I have already indicated that this law is necessary to implement an EU regulation. I would like to touch on a number of points and answer the questions raised by Members. First of all, it concerns the EU regulation itself and the legislative proposal and, secondly, its implementation and privacy protection, which is, of course, the subject of this proposal. In 2018, the European Commission published a proposal for this Regulation with the following objectives: to improve security within the EU.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Viewed from a Dutch perspective, this regulation sets minimum quality requirements for all documents with which the right to free movement is obtained. In our view, therefore, this is a proportionate proposal, but it is about standardisation of materials, of characteristics and of rules on formatting. This is not of course the case in all countries. We are, of course, used to our own travel documents. At European level, they are high-level and safe, but the system is as safe as the weakest link. If we really want to improve security within the European Union, especially those Member States which still have some steps to take in this area will have to take that step. And that is what is happening with this regulation. But for the Netherlands, these are relatively limited adjustments. Is that a story now to merely create fear? No, it is certainly not, because we know that the travel documents that are already vulnerable can be falsified, that they can move freely once you are inside and that, in particular, criminal organisations, I am thinking of organisations in the field of trafficking in human beings, but also of others involved in the counterfeiting of those travel documents. And that's what they do especially in places where it's most simple. Speaking about that regulation is, of course, accompanied by adjustments. This has been preceded by a long journey and has also been changed with the Chamber. In the end, the cabinet agreed to this regulation in 2019. In the negotiations on this subject, we have always worked for a good balance between usefulness, necessity and proportionality. On the one hand, it is a question of ensuring safety, but at the same time it is a question of reducing the additional costs, such as the costs of implementation, as much as possible. In this whole process, I have constantly informed you of the progress of these negotiations. In the end, we were able to deal with a number of issues. First of all, the identity cards do not need to be replaced early. That is something that some of you have already pointed out. As a government, we also have a responsibility to keep the costs involved and ultimately passed on as low as possible. In that respect, we remain Dutch. Until the last opportunity available, I will try to limit unnecessary costs arising from the destruction of cards. Member States will indeed be given the possibility not to indicate the sex on the identity card. That is not the case at the moment. That has not yet been operationalised, but you have indeed received a letter on this subject in which I have indicated that I will table a legislative proposal for this in the course of next year. Similarly, citizens who are temporarily unable to give a fingerprint will not be confronted with an ID card which they will not be able to use longer than the six months initially referred to, which would mean that they would have to purchase a new identity card after six months. This is all about services. If you do that, at the same time, you'll always have the counter-malm attached to it that you could use it to put security under pressure. So you have to do that in proportion, even to the people involved. No one should be excluded, but if too many people use this, then of course you create a weakness in the system. We have always been critical from the very beginning, even under pressure of positive pressure, I have to say that even in the time before I was working on this, the House has been critical of fingerprinting. We have also tried to get that out of the regulation. In the end, it didn't work out. And that regulation, which has direct effect should the implementing legislation, including this law, not be adopted, makes it necessary to actually get to work on this. As mentioned above, the Dutch identity card already meets most of the quality requirements, so for us this is a relatively small step. An adjustment: the EU flag is indeed coming up, there will be a new authenticity feature and two fingerprints of the card holder in the chip, as is already the case with the passport. From 2 August these new identity cards will be issued. And at the same time, not by chance, that is also the deadline of the regulation, before the direct effect would take place afterwards. So I'm glad we can have this debate here too. After 2 August, therefore, no identity cards may be issued that do not meet the requirements, even without fingerprints. We are now going to develop these underlying regulations on costs, for example, in order to avoid conflict in this respect. A number of questions have then been asked in relation to that regulation. Mrs Rajkowski asked the question: how do you deal with sick and elderly people who are having trouble fingerprinting, and do you include this in the evaluation? Well, we've been taking fingerprints for passports for years, so we also have experience with how that goes with people with temporary or non-temporary physical disabilities. We also know that sometimes it's complicated to take those fingerprints. In principle, people whose fingerprints cannot be fingerprinted will receive a document with a validity of one year. If it turns out that people have a particular condition or disability that does not allow it at all, they can also simply get a document with a regular validity. No specific evaluation is foreseen. We continuously monitor this, in consultation with the municipalities of course, but also with the NVVB, the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, which, from its practical point of view, combines it very practically if there were problems in the implementation. Mrs van Ginneken also made very explicit reference to the issue of proportionality, i.e. the objectives of the regulation, namely security and the fight against fraud. Doesn't that create new barriers? Those fingerprints that are now being introduced complement the existing comparison based on characteristics for determining someone's identity. This also means that, in many cases, not all of them are actually going to use fingerprints or are going to be read out to check that they are correct. Nor is it, I say to Mr Bosma, that there is going to be some kind of transfer by the European Union of the characteristics of these fingerprints. That is not possible, because they are on that identity card. The only thing being checked is whether the name and fingerprints match; so a yes or a no, or that's true. And in case of doubt based on photos and facial features, for example, the customs or the military can take fingerprints to see if it is actually the identity of the person who says that he or she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u24	There is a question from Mr Bosma, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u25	A little one, Mr. Chairman. I read on page 4 of the explanatory statement, and I quote literally: 'Member States are obliged to grant mutual access to fingerprints on each other's identity cards.'
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yeah, that's right, that's totally correct. Otherwise, you can't control it. So we are not at that stage yet, but that is being further developed now, and we are going to have the opportunity to check whether the fingerprint on it actually matches the name and other data on that identity card. But it is not the case that the translation of those data from fingerprints or photos or whatever is being sent over and over again. The system works with a key, and the only thing the competent authority can control is whether what's on that card plus the name matches. That's what happens. That is also a fundamental and practical difference, because if you were to store those fingerprints centrally, for example, you would indeed get the picture that Mr Bosma warns you about, namely the sending of all these data over and over again. Well, that's not gonna happen. They're only on that I.D. Then there is the question of implementation and evaluation. Article 13 of the law, in response to a question by Mrs Van Ginneken, states that after two years, an evaluation will be carried out on the protection of fundamental rights and the protection of personal data. After six years, the application of the entire Regulation will be evaluated. The EU Commission shall evaluate the Regulation in cooperation with the Member States. Then there is the question of implementation. In addition to the introduction of the EU flag and the new kinegram, the application and production process for the identity card will also need to be adapted, due to the recording of these two fingerprints. The new identity card will be more expensive for the applicant, as the costs associated with the fingerprinting will have to be passed on. This will lead to an increase in the fees levied by the issuing authorities, in this case the municipalities. These costs increase by €3,55, and at embassies, so for people abroad, by €5,68. A change in the decision on passport fees is therefore in preparation. This cost increase is based on the principle of cost security. It is therefore actually the extra costs to be incurred by the issuing authorities that will be passed on to the passport. The cost of production does not increase, so the share of the purchase costs, also on the basis of the Passport Payment Decision, remains the same. It's just about the trading costs. I have said before that these fingerprints are used to improve safety and reliability and to verify the identity of the person concerned, only in case of doubt about the facial features in the photograph. European law obliges us to achieve the bilateral exchange of access to fingerprints with other EU Member States. By letter I informed you on 1 December of the intention to start the exchange with Finland first and to work on the exchange with other Member States. Unfortunately, this exchange with Finland has been delayed by a technical delay on the Finnish side. The expectation is that this can be picked up again in the summer. In the meantime, I have started the exchange with the Czech Republic and I am currently working with seven other countries to see how we can make this operational as soon as possible. Of course, that regulation is the basis for this too, but it will take some time until it is actually implemented and all Member States will be able to check that someone has the right identity on the basis of that ID card. But that regulation is the basis for this. A number of questions have been asked about implementation. Firstly, Mrs van Ginniken and Mrs Rajkowski's question on people with disabilities. I have indicated that it will be considered whether a restriction is temporary or final. If it is final, it shall be valid for a period of 10 years. If it leads to problems in practice, we will rely mainly on the experiences of municipalities and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs. Should it cause problems, we must allow for an adjustment in implementation. That is not yet foreseen, but of course there is always that possibility. We are not going to wait for official evaluations, should problems arise in this area. I have already answered Mrs Rajkowski's questions on keeping costs as low as possible. That is certainly my commitment, hence the relatively late introduction. It was supposed to happen sooner, but there was still a whole supply. I said, why switch sooner if you can still use that stock of semi-finished products to make those cards? That's a shame, of course. It is not, of course, that this stock is going to be worthless, because we can still use that semi-finished product for passports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u27	There is a question from Mrs Rajkowski.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u28	Municipalities must keep those blank identity cards in hand in case there is a sudden peak in the applications. That makes sense. Ideally, you want to keep the rest of the stock as low as possible... that stock now has a value of 1 million euros... so that the amount also becomes as low as possible... or else it's a waste of money. On the other hand, I also understand that, now that things are getting a little better with the fight against the corona crisis, it might be desirable for municipalities to have an extra large stock because soon everyone will probably go to the municipality to renew their ID card in order to be able to go abroad. I understand the balance and logic of both. Can you say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u29	You are touching exactly the point of balance, the dilemma we face. Normally, in a year, you can reasonably predict what is being spent on documents. This is, of course, a very special year. People couldn't go on vacation. Looks like they can do that now, so a lot of people might want to get some ID. So you can't just base yourself on the experiences of past years. It might be more this year. So we have that stock so spacious that we can also accommodate it before it's August 2, because most people will naturally request their identity card for that time, given the holiday period. So we don't want to get into trouble because we can't deliver anymore, but we also want to avoid having an unnecessarily large stock that we might not be able to use in part. That's the dilemma. So the service is paramount. But if we had immediately decided to implement, you would have known for sure that much stock could not be used anymore, which is a waste of money. So we certainly don't, but we've built in some margins so, if people are thinking about going on holiday now but need a new identity card or a new passport, they're not in front of a closed window because we happen to have decided to pay attention to the cents so we can't deliver anymore. Mrs Van Ginneken has also called for attention to be paid to distance services abroad. Provision has already been made for this. Regular attention has also been sought from the Chamber for good service. But there is also the principle of cost security, because additional costs will have to be incurred. There are also counters set up in different places in the world and there are consular speaking hours. So there are just more costs involved. On the other hand, if people make use of it and do not necessarily have to go to the counter at Schiphol in the Haarlemmermeer and thus save costs for a document that is valid for ten years, then we think we have found a good balance. I know that your colleague Mr Sjoerdsma has asked many questions about this in the past and has drawn attention to it, but this also applies to the fact that this service has to be paid for in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u30	I am particularly curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at the fact that the places where you can go abroad to go through that application procedure are, I remember, twenty or so, which in practice means that people sometimes have to travel hundreds and sometimes thousands of kilometres for that. So the cost of the card itself may be limited, but the total cost of obtaining the document may be very high for people. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u31	I am not concealing that this could be the case in some cases, but at the same time it is the case that it is a travel document with a validity period of 10 years. Many people who live abroad and have a Dutch travel document, also sometimes come to the Netherlands and can do so at Schiphol Airport or in a number of other places in the world. This is very simple: the moment you make that network finer with the equipment that goes with it, of course, it is not just a matter of an administrative operation because you will have to equip the places where you do it with good equipment, then there is a price tag. That's the trade-off that's been made. I think we have found the middle between a good service that is accessible and keeping costs under control. If you want to optimize it, you can, but there's just a price tag on it. If, in one case, we have to set up a whole desk with all the equipment in one place, it will be a very expensive passport or very expensive identity card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u32	Can the Secretary of State also include in this almost complete answer how he looks at the possibility of mobile fingerprint collection equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u33	As far as we're concerned, he's one of them. That can be picked up with mobile fingerprint devices. Of course, this is a facility that is available. There is also a price tag, but you can do this especially on a Dutch scale with people who are not able to actually go to an issuing agency like a town hall. You could use that abroad, too. However, there is still a need to balance the proportionality of how many people use this one device. So there is mobility. It's not like you always have to go to a physical window, but it's service. The moment we want to serve the last customer, there is a price tag. I think that's the permanent dilemma. This applies at all to all consular assistance abroad. If you want it in many places at a very high level, that means a very high price per product you deliver in this case. We were just talking about the stash. Here we must also take a critical look at the balance sheet. By setting it up in this way, it is both a gesture from the government that we provide a good service, but it is also expected from those who make an application that they sometimes have to make some effort to do so. After all, it's not something you do every day. Luckily, that makes a lot of difference. Mrs van der Plas asked why, for example, the possibility of doing so at home has been removed for people who cannot come. I have just said that this possibility has not been deleted. Well, you can still do that. The regulation prescribes physical appearance, but this makes it possible for people who are really dependent on mobile services to receive them in practice. This means that the official of the municipality will appear with that person in that case. You may imagine that you can't just say: it would be nice to have this too, would you stop by? Of course there has to be an indication, because otherwise you can just go to the town hall. This means that in practice it is also mainly the assessment of the municipality. I have often said in these debates: we rely very much on the municipalities, who know their people and know how that works in practice or not, to use that opportunity, so that no one falls apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u34	There is a question from Mrs Van der Plas of the FarmerCitizen's Movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u35	This is of course very nice and it is also very nice to assume, but in practice this often works differently in municipalities. We have seen, for example, when collecting statements of support for these elections, that a lot of municipalities do not even know what a statement of support was, whereas it was clearly communicated from the Ministry of the Interior, or that opening hours did not work. So there is an enormous amount of randomness or ignorance. In this case, I would like to have a guarantee that people with an indication, whatever municipality they live in, can get a home visit. The world is often destroyed by good intentions. I don't blame municipalities for their unwillingness, but I blame them for their ignorance. Or there are officials who are going to interpret the rules very precisely. You're dealing with people, aren't you? So what I'm looking for is how we can guarantee that. Can that be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u36	That's a fair question. I always like clarity. At the same time, I am very much in favour of subsidiarity, so it is up to the municipalities to fill that out. I cannot say here that municipalities could never make mistakes with this, but I think it is important when talking about inclusive services, this is a very important point that people who are really dependent on such a mobile facility can also make use of it. That's what I'm telling you. We will also make that clear in the communication to the municipalities. If there is a situation in which this is not enough in the eyes of some people, then there are opportunities to complain about it. We can also include it in the evaluation. It can also be done through the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, because for us that is really a partner who has a lot of experience in practice in this area throughout the Netherlands. So he also sees where things are going well and less well. But I do believe in the strength that municipalities can judge this for themselves and that citizens who believe that they have been wronged on this point can also report for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u37	I am going to table a motion on this later to put some pressure on it, because I am not so sure about that. I'm a little looking. Maybe there should just be a big poster at civil affairs, so that everyone who works there knows and sees every day: if there is someone who can't come to the town hall, then... You can say yes, but citizens can complain. But then a citizen has to take back thresholds to just get something that he is actually entitled to or what he needs. I find it too easy to say: if things don't go well, you just file a complaint. We know how slow that power often works. People also run up against bureaucracy. I just want to make it as simple as possible. I am therefore going to table a motion on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u38	I understand Mrs. Van der Plas. At the same time, there is always another side to a dilemma. Why? Because I trust congregations. I am not saying that things never go wrong, but the idea that if we all take care of it centrally, then things will go well, is also a misconception. I am therefore quite sure that I trust that municipalities will do this in a good way. I also promised to communicate it towards municipalities. Moreover, this regulation does not exclude it. So I would just like to make it clear that this provision remains in place. But it's for the municipality's assessment. Above all, I want to leave that alone, so that we do not decide here in The Hague what needs to be done in the municipality of X or Y. In practice, this also happens very often. I know, of course, that things are being discussed in the Chamber that are not going well, but I do not think that we are making it easier to implement it with a motion and even more rules for municipalities. So that's a cri du coeur on my part. Of course, you are free to table a motion, but you also have the right to hear my side of the story and my own experience as a local director. We have also had this discussion in the Chamber many times, when questions were asked about the ability of civil servants to assess whether such a situation exists, for example in the case of lifeless children. At that time I also said: I trust that officials will do so in good conscience. If it turns out that this has always gone wrong, then there is always a possibility to correct it. If it goes wrong, you have a point to make, but I haven't gotten those signals yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u39	A final question, of course, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u40	Well, it's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u41	One last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u42	I am not going to file the motion out of suspicion, I would like to add. I submit her because I believe that as a government we have a duty of care to citizens. That's why I'm filing her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u44	I certainly agree with Mrs Van der Plas on that last point. I also believe that we should have a good service for everyone and that we should be able to be customised. Just to make customization possible, sometimes you don't have to take care of things centrally. That is a bit of a paradox, but in practice it is. Then I come to Mrs van Ginneken's question, or can I confirm that only decentralised storage is carried out. That is, of course, correct, otherwise we would have had a very different discussion. We've had it before. I was a spokesperson in the Chamber at the time when it was still on this subject. I do not think there would otherwise have been such enthusiasm for this proposal. For the sake of clarity, those fingerprints will be recorded and placed on that card, then the data necessary to place them on the card will be deleted. So it's just on that map. I think that is a very important step. So there is certainly no question of central storage. Mrs van Ginneken also asked whether all these fingerprints could be read out by now. I have just said that this is being worked out at the moment. The police aren't ready to do that yet. The expectation is that this will be possible in the autumn of this year. Hopefully, other Member States will follow soon. Mrs van der Plas also worked for the people who are vulnerable in another sense, namely financially: how is that going? For this purpose, municipalities already have the power to assess, on a case-by-case basis, whether people are eligible for total or partial remission. So this regulation and the lower regulation that goes with it have no further influence on that. So it's still up to municipalities to judge that. I see Mrs van der Plas nodding that she thinks that is a good idea, that she agrees. Then I think I am almost at the end of the answer in my first term, at least on the basis of the questions as I have written them down manually. Perhaps one more question from Mrs van der Plas on the European flag. I will be very honest: it was not necessary to do so as far as we are concerned. That was a result of a negotiation, as is the case in Brussels, between the Council and Parliament. On the other hand, you see it happen more and more. By the way, I very much agree with you. At home, the Limburg flag flies every day. I'm so proud of that. But that does not prevent us from placing the European flag on an identity card. But it has not been a wish of the Netherlands, but a result of negotiations. Finally, with regard to privacy protection, it may be good to say that access to biometric data, which, of course, always requires utmost care, is only possible for qualified and authorised personnel. These should be specifically designated by the authorities. For example, you can think of the military, border authority and customs. When applying the Regulation, Member States should ensure the security, integrity, authenticity and confidentiality of the data collected and stored. Those fingerprints should therefore only be used for the verification of the authenticity of the document and the verification of the identity of the holder. These requirements work directly and have already been worked out in the Netherlands in the passport legislation and the implementing regulations at the GDPR, thus fulfilling all these requirements. So that is completely congruent, and there is no contradiction with that anymore. With that, privacy is sufficiently secured. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions, I see here. Mr Bosma asks: what about that sex? He went back to 1968. That was a year I wasn't born yet, but I did hear a lot about what happened back then. He put that down in a kind of left-wing liberal movement that has so far plagued the Netherlands. I kind of paraphrase it, but that's pretty much the summary of how he sees it. I was not born at the time and I am not a member of the Left-liberal movement, I am still not. By the way, I am serving the Cabinet and the Crown and I am still a member of your Chamber, so I can say a few more things about that. But this isn't inspired by that current. This is simply inspired by the now broad view in society that unnecessary gender registration should be restricted. In July 2019, colleague Van Engelshoven wrote a letter about this, partly on behalf of me and the Minister for Legal Protection. We're gonna work that out even further. It is important to emphasize the adjective "unnecessary." For it is not a goal, as Mr Bosma said, to brush away the difference between man and woman or to acknowledge that there are now several forms in which people feel at home. I would like to point out to Mrs Van Ginneken that I have already done so, that I have not only appreciated her contribution, but also the way in which she links it to her political actions today. I think that is the best proof that views on this issue, also socially, are widely accepted. Of course, everyone is free to find something about it, but I am also proud to hear your story about it. Maybe I have a different view of that, but it doesn't matter. Mr Bosma asked me: are there any real men left, because you are from the army and there are all men there? Yeah, there are real men. Real men accept people as they are or want to be. And if they're real men, then I'm a real man, I still think. I not only respect that, but I also appreciate that, by the way, as much as I respect and sometimes appreciate other views in this house. So it is not, as Mr Bosma says, that we let our ears hang on to organizations that are sponsored, subsidised by the government, and thus tell a story that sometimes goes against government policy. It's true that the government is funding a lot of organizations. Fortunately, we live in a free country in which everyone is allowed to express their views. For unnecessary sex registration, I just see the image changing. The CFP, to which Mr Bosma refers, would probably not have been in favour of this in 1967, 1968, but even in circles of what the successors of the CFP are called, this is now commonplace; not on the assumption that all people should want or do so themselves, but on respect for other people. So it is not that we are going to abolish it or that, as Mr Bosma said about the NS, you should not say 'ladies and gentlemen' anymore. I still use that every day, but you also have to understand the feelings of groups that feel excluded from it. I think that's the core of the story. The line of the cabinet, of both Van Engelhoven and myself, is that you have to take a broad look where it is and where it is not necessary. You used to be able to use "man/woman" to determine who someone was, but by now that is of course beautiful.We have quite different techniques to determine that. The fingerprint is a technical progress that helps us to get a higher level of discrimination in the positive sense, i.e. of distinction, in the question "who is who?" And to determine if anyone is who he says he is. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions I have been asked. If that is not the case, I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u45	We have been writing along and we have that impression, but I will look at the Members to see if they still have a question in this period. Otherwise, I would like to move on to the second term of office. I hear that there is at least one Member who does not need a second term, Mr Bosma. Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA does not need a second term, nor does Mrs Rajkowski. Mrs. Van Ginneken does, and I see someone else. There's another motion being printed out. Then we'll just start with Mrs. Van Ginneken of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State for answering the many questions and for typing "real men" as men who respect others. I appreciate that very much. However, I do have a question about proportionality, because that question has not been fully answered. I have heard the Secretary of State say that hopefully other Member States will soon follow up on the implementation of reading equipment. I have also heard him say that the reading of fingerprints happens as a supplement if there is any doubt as to the authenticity of the identity document. My specific question to the Secretary of State is: how many cases of fraud do we prevent on balance? As far as I am concerned, the answer to that question is crucial in order to assess whether the proportionality of this measure is correct. I have a second question for the Secretary of State. How has implementation been involved in determining the feasibility of the starting date of 2 August?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you very much. I see that Mrs Van der Plas is carrying the now printed motion. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Regulation (EU) 2019/1157 requires Member States to strengthen security requirements for IDs and residence documents;]] [[noting that the current law lays down the possibility of making an exception to the mandatory appearance for the appropriate authorities when applying for an ID or residence document for serious reasons;]] [[noting that this anchoring is not included in the present legislative proposal;]] [[whereas the Minister indicated in the explanatory memorandum that opportunities were being sought to make this possible in lower regulation;]] [[Whereas the removal of this guarantee at law level may harm the position of people with disabilities, sick persons and other vulnerable persons;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to examine how the law can ensure that people with serious reasons for not being able to appear before the authorities can claim a visit from the municipality at home, or otherwise have access to the application for an ID or residence document at no extra cost;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35552-(R2148)-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u49	The Secretary of State will answer two more questions and provide a motion for a resolution. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u50	That's correct, Mr. Chairman. Two further questions have been put by Mrs Van Ginneken. First of all, she asked to what extent all the organisations involved in the implementation are involved in this implementation date and its timeliness. Yes, as I said earlier, there is a lot of consultation with the NVVB, the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs. The Caribbean countries have also expressed their opinion on this issue. They all consider both the content and the date of implementation feasible and they are also constantly involved in the next steps. The NVVB is in fact the vanguard for us; these are the people at the window, who can also see in practice where it may go wrong and whether it can all be done in terms of capacity. This is also the subject of regular consultations. I have these discussions myself with this organization and that creates very short lines. Your question about proportionality is what we do to prevent something from happening and in how many percent of the cases or in how many cases it would happen. Of course, that's always hard to predict, because then you'd have to try it first, and we'd rather not. The assessment of the Identity Fraud and Documents Expertise Centre is that it prevents a number of hundreds of cases per year. Let's be honest, these are generally people who have malicious intentions, who are actually trying to cheat. There are sometimes very large organisations behind this, so it is important to maintain and address the integrity of the system. I have just said that there are of course still countries that are currently working with photos that are stuck on paper documents with perpetual validity. In short, feed for people who want to fake it. We will not add so much to it, but it is the whole system and the system is as strong as the weakest link. That weakest link is now being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the quantitative answer. I appreciate that very much. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to include this question explicitly in the two evaluation periods mentioned above, namely to what extent adding fingerprints to identity cards has had a reducing effect on the number of identity fraud cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u52	Yeah, that'd be fine, I can promise. This also applies, of course, to the fact that you can only see what you can see. So you don't know exactly what the whole picture looks like yet, but you would assume that there would be fewer cases of fraud. Then, of course, we will also distinguish between documents originating from and produced in the Netherlands and documents from EU Member States which are also covered by this regulation and which also need to be adapted. That seems to me to be a perfectly right question, because that is what we did and for that we say, and I also argue, that it is proportional, given the additional infringements you are making. Mrs van der Plas' motion for a resolution 9 sounds very sympathetic. I have already indicated that in the first period. At the same time, as you say in the second observation, 'the current passport regulations already contain the possibility of making an exception for serious reasons. That possibility will not be compromised. He'll stay for congregations. In the operative part, you ask the Cabinet to examine how this can be guaranteed by law. Then we're really going a step further. I think that is a point of principle. At the same time, the concern you should express should be the concern of all of us. So even though I have to dissuade the motion, I can promise to talk to the NVVB about this. The information I have now is that over the past two or three years we have not received any signals as to where this went wrong. I can't guarantee that nothing ever went wrong, but I didn't get those signals. I can promise you that I will talk to them, so you can keep the motion until I tell you about it, or you can, of course, just put it to the vote. If you put the motion to the vote, I will advise against it. I'll talk to the NVVB because I think this is an important topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u53	I see that Mrs Van Dijk is at the interrupting microphone, but I would like to give Mrs Van der Plas the opportunity first of all because it concerns her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u54	I'm not gonna hold the motion yet. I will first discuss this and possibly then hold the motion, or not; we will see it next week. But thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u55	That gives the motion in part No. 9 dissuade judgment. I always need to confirm that, so that everyone has that sharp. Then I come to Mrs Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u56	I have, of course, listened carefully to the explanatory statement. How are we going to guarantee people with disabilities that they will be helped properly? I thought, well, plausible story. I'm also very confident, but I just thought in the suspension: I'm going to visit the website of a number of municipalities. What's on that? Nothing at all! I looked at five, and I couldn't find anything on five. Then I thought: then it might be high-threshold to take that step. If you do want to use that service, how do you do it? You're gonna be the first to check a website, but it's not on it. So that's something we have to do with, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u57	It is an interesting point made by Mrs Van Dijk. My proposal, combined with the commitment I made to Mrs Van der Plas, would be that I should also consult the NVVB on this matter. I will make the suggestion to be clear about that, if not already done; I cannot judge that. I shall then inform the Chamber on both points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u58	We have all heard that commitment loud and clear. That brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill. I would like to thank Members for their input and the Secretary of State for their reply.
