ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members to ask four questions in the first term of the Chamber and six questions in the first term of the executives. I would like to ask you, Mr President, that went very well last time to keep it brief and concise; then we will make it. We also had a debate last week, of course. So I hope that many questions have been answered, including in the technical briefings. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. There will be a little room, to have a drink, to shop, to visit again a little longer. Space that we have all done our best for, but also space that we all have to deal with responsibly. That is what we owe to care, to entrepreneurs and to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u3	After such an input, you can expect an interruption. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I wanted to talk about that space and whether it is justified. I would like to tell Mrs Hermans the following. It's a really long list, so I just wrote it down. The ic-recordings today are the highest in two weeks. The number of infections today affects almost 10,000 people. Today came the news that Martini Hospital should close eight operating rooms and that new patients should go to other hospitals. Starting tomorrow, I just read, the Erasmus MC only helps emergency patients, because the staff is needed to provide covid care. The OMT strongly recommends that the relaxations be carried out only after it has been established that the peak is indeed behind us. The numbers I just gave don't suggest the peak's behind us. Does Mrs Hermans agree with me that relaxing now is totally irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u5	The next sentence I wanted to say was that we are obliged to take responsibility for dealing with that space, because in the care the pressure is still enormous. There's a lot of hard work there. The figures mentioned by Mrs Ploumen only support that. We are now looking forward to a terrace next week, while asking care staff not to take their days off. That feels unfair. I understand that perfectly. At the same time, last week we also debated the issue of providing perspective. That perspective is also so important for society and for entrepreneurs, precisely so that we can keep to a number of basic rules, which are so important. It allows us to keep the care in the legs and protect the vulnerable. That it is a dilemma and that it is always seeking a balance, I fully share with Mrs Ploumen. I see, also with today's figures, that this remains a constant dilemma and a balancing act. But where the cabinet has made a broad assessment on the basis of all these opinions, we must do the same here in the Chamber. That is what we in our group have done. All things considered, we have said: we see that this pressure is still very high. So we also recognise that feeling of unfairness. There's no way I'm running away from that. But in order to maintain that support for all the measures that are needed to really get over that peak, we are now ready to take this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u6	I would point out to Mrs Hermans that it is irresponsible. There are almost 10,000 positive tested people today. Those are the latest figures. The number of ic-recordings is increasing. My proposal would be to make sure that the support packages for entrepreneurs are extended and strengthened, so that they do have a perspective, stop giving false hope to people and do nothing until the figures, also according to the OMT, give rise to them. Is this perhaps a proposal which Mrs Hermans can support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u7	In this step, too, we are not giving enough room to entrepreneurs or society to do again what we would so much like to do. So I fully agree with Mrs Ploumen that we are far from finished with the support packages and the support of our entrepreneurs. But I'm gonna keep looking at that broader consideration. I also saw what the OMT said about waiting for decisions until we really had that peak. But we are standing here today to debate next week's enlargements. We also see that in the course of next week those figures go down if everything goes well, as we hope. Just like when I argued for more space here last week, I do think that we should continue to monitor and monitor the figures day by day. The same goes, of course, for the step announced by the cabinet. We must, of course, keep looking at whether it still meets how we thought it would work out on the basis of the models.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u8	Okay, so Mrs Hermans is now saying with me and with the OMT: do not take the decision to relax now, but look at that day-to-day and take that decision only when there is real reason and we have that peak behind us. That's what the OMT says. Can I therefore conclude that Mrs Hermans agrees, or does she say: the figures are running up and yet today we are taking the decision to relax on 28 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u9	Given the models the OMT has and with which it expresses the prognosis that that peak has been reached in the course of next week and that we are going to use that decline, I say in that broad consideration: yes, keeping the care alive and protecting the vulnerable remain our goals. But to do so, we must have support in society and ensure that we continue to comply with these basic rules. A little perspective and space is also important for that. In this balance sheet we support the step taken by the cabinet. But, where I said last week, "Stay on the way to day-to-day space," I say now, "Stay on day-to-day developments to see if we're doing the right things here."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u10	Then there is no other conclusion to me than that Mrs Hermans is taking irresponsible risks with people's health and with care capacity and overburdening care. I find that a sad conclusion. I certainly don't share her bet. With 10,000 positive infections, with so many people in the hospital, with so many people on the ic, we should say: look at it day by day, follow the advice of the OMT and do not go a little freestyle yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u11	Finally, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u12	I certainly do not share Mrs Ploumen's words. We fully agree that we continue to watch and monitor from day to day. That always requires a crisis, especially at the stage in which we are now. We all know the models in which that decline will take place next week. A wide-ranging consideration has been made of the goals we have with corona policy and the way in which we can maintain it together in society. In this balance sheet a responsible choice is now made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u13	Mr Kuzu van DENK and then Mr Van Haga of Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u14	Last week, the Prime Minister said that we cannot take unnecessary risks. And this week the VVD says "yes, we can relax on the basis of a number of models presented by the RIVM," while the OMT itself indicates that this is not really wise. I'm trying to find a line in the VVD's argumentation. Previously it was always: we listen to the OMT, so no unnecessary risks. And now it is: the model offers space. I think it is of two and one: do we follow the line of the OMT or can the VVD make independent considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u15	Mr Kuzu now talks about the Prime Minister's arguments. That's the prime minister, that's the cabinet. I stand here on behalf of the VVD Group. I explained to you last week what our trade-off was at that time. I am standing here to explain the balance that we discussed in our group on Tuesday. That is what we are debating now. The difference between last week and this week and the difference between today and next week is, of course, that we continue to vaccinate, that more people have been vaccinated and that we continue to do so. And yes, I acknowledge that with the step we are taking now, we are taking a risk. I can see that, and I recognize that. I also recognise that this is a concern... I repeat what I said to Mrs Ploumen: we are looking forward to having a drink on a terrace next week, while caregivers are asked not to take days off. That makes you feel unfair. But in this crisis we are constantly looking for what you can do, yes, with a small risk, but still in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u16	I have not seen in the last ten years that the VVD has taken a different position on the position of the Prime Minister of the VVD, but let alone that. Let us zoom in on one of the measures: opening the terraces between noon and 6 p.m. Can Mrs Hermans explain to me why terraces cannot be open until 7 p.m. or 8 p.m.? A lot of people work during the day. They can then go to a terrace at the end of the day, but after half an hour they can pack. Is corona extra contagious after 6:00?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u17	Mr. Kuzu, about the opening hours of the terraces I also have questions for the cabinet. I would say: ask this question also to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u18	This is really easy. I am not asking questions to the cabinet, but to you, because you have just told me that you can deviate from the Prime Minister's position. I am therefore curious to know what you think about the terraces being closed at 6 p.m. and not being open until 7 p.m. or 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u19	I am about to ask the cabinet on which the opening of the terraces is based between 12:00 and 18:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u20	Your last question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u21	What does the VVD think? We are dealing with the largest group in Parliament. It is really too easy to say every time a question comes to the cabinet: yes, I have questions about that. What is the VVD's own point of view? I think you had a group meeting on Tuesday. I cannot escape the impression that you spoke about this with your colleagues at the group meeting and that a line emerged from it. So what is the VVD's position on closing the terraces at 6 p.m. and not at 7 p.m. or 8 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u22	We discuss the proposals in the group. That was then, moreover, on the basis of what was known in the media, because of course the press conference had not yet been. The times of the terraces passed. They have also passed by in the group. Why 6:00 p.m. and not 8:00 p.m., for example, to match the time you can buy alcohol? So that's one of my questions: why is it 6:00 and not 8:00? You can also say: why is it 12:00 and not 10:00? Suppose on Sunday morning you go hiking in the woods, on the beach or I know a lot where and you want to have a cup of coffee and have some apple pie. Why can't we do that between 10:00 and 12:00 and the terraces don't open until 12:00? Those are questions I have. I would like to await the answers of the cabinet and then, with my group, consider the motions that may be tabled or which we ourselves may table. I think that's how it works in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u23	Your last question, Mr. Kuzu. The same goes for Mrs Ploumen. Let me be clear: we have four questions in the first term of the Chamber and then six questions to the directors. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u24	I think I'll be up to four by then, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u25	I'm sticking to this very well. Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u26	Mrs Hermans does not have to explain to me how it works in the House of Representatives, because I do know that. Mrs Hermans has to explain to me why she has not yet been able to make an independent assessment. She's gonna ask some questions, so she indicates. At the same time, this reminds me of the discussion about curfew. Then the whole Chamber indicated: well, we are critical of that and have questions about it. Then it was exchanged with half an hour, hour or what it was.I don't know exactly anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u27	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u28	I wonder if that will be the line of the VVD when it comes to opening the terraces. Is an extra half an hour acceptable to you? Or is an extra hour acceptable? Then where are you going with your questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u29	Mrs Hermans and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u30	It begins with the fact that I want to know what 12.00 to 6 p.m. is based on. Just like I said to you, why not 10:00 in the morning and 8:00 in the evening? I would like to hear the answers of the cabinet. What is the rational argument behind that? Then we will consider whether we think it is enough or whether we say: maybe you should open those terraces at 10:00 or maybe we should make it 8:00. I can't say that one-two-three now. I'd like to hear those answers. I think that's how it works here: I make a contribution, I tell you how we look at something, I ask questions to the cabinet, I wait for the answers and then make the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u31	Still a bit of a different sound. This is, in my view, the first time in the history of this corona situation that the cabinet is going against the advice of the OMT and is trying to take a risk by carrying out all kinds of mini-solutions. That's what the compliments are for. Only, with regard to those terraces, it's the other way around. It's more dangerous, in your eyes, not to open those terraces, because then people in the Vondelpark are all going to hug and party. These terraces are therefore an improvement in the distribution of corona. So I have a question in the same line. You are going to ask the cabinet, of course, but is it not better to open it up as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u32	So again, that's why I'm asking questions about that. What's that based on? It may be related to what I debated earlier with you and last week with Mr. Wilders. What happens to the number of movements if you open those terraces at all and if you open them longer, at different times than the cabinet is proposing? What happens to the number of movements to and from terraces, trams, on the train and on the bus? We know that movements bring contact to them. Contact is a major risk factor for the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u33	So may I assume that you are also curious whether there is an investigation on the basis of which it was chosen between noon and 6 p.m.? That's probably what you're gonna ask. I do not want it to come to another question, or else I will lose my four questions, so I have another question. In the home situation, the number of visitors is pushed up to two. So you have two people from different bubbles or different households who are allowed to visit. There'll be three of you. But on a terrace, you can only meet with the two of us. That's crazy, because outside you have fewer infections than inside. So can you explain to me how you rhyme that with each other? Because inside it is three households and on the terrace two households.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u34	I understand very well what Mr Van Haga is doing here. That's what I've been trying to do all along. You're trying to turn off the logic of one measure against another. So you try to get a consistent picture of all the measures. You know, somewhere at the beginning of this crisis, I have come to the conclusion that it is not going to make any sense. Unfortunately, it's not going to be consistent, what you can do inside, at home, and what you can do on a terrace. We look for it, in all the compositions and in all the occasions where you can come together, whether at home, on a terrace, in a lecture hall or at school, to shape it in as safe and responsible a way as possible. But we shouldn't be comparing things all the time, hoping to get it consistent with that. Consistency? Consistency is possible. Then we throw everything, all shut down. Then it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u35	Yeah, that's pretty amazing, actually, because you totally accept the illogical approach of this cabinet throughout the corona crisis. That's exactly what I agree with. The masks, the curfew and the lockdown all make no sense at all. No one knew why they had to spend four hours at the click-and-collect. Now, with the number of people on the terraces, no one has any idea. At the times when the terraces open, we are in the dark. But I'm gonna go ask the ministers later. I hope you will ask the right questions and then stand here with me to question them on this totally illogical situation, which affects entrepreneurs tremendously, but which you clearly cannot explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u36	The objectives of the policy are perfectly clear: to protect the vulnerable and to maintain care. Mr. Van Haga asks why something is allowed inside and not outside. He's trying to get that all congruent and consistent. That was my point. If we go there and look for consistency, that's not gonna work. We just have to accept that in the crisis we are in, where we are always looking together for what we can do in a way that is safe and responsible and that still gives us a little space to do some things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u37	Let me also try with the VVD lady, about the terraces. Look, we know you're not consistent, and you can. But you are, I suppose, also concerned that with that opening of the terraces we will not get any more, but less infections? That must be the purpose of all of us, right? As you know, I have often argued, on behalf of my group, that the risk of infection in the outdoors is low. So what if you limit that? And then you say, "Well, you can only have two men, and the same family might let you have a little more." Otherwise, it's only allowed to be two. With screens. Five feet away. And most importantly, it has to be closed at 6:00. What do you think people will do if they sit on the terrace at 4:00 p.m. with a colleague, with their family or with a couple of friends and they have a wine or a beer and the sun shines? What do you think they're gonna do at 6:00? Are they going to read a good book home, or are they going to drink through one of their friends' homes, uncontrolled, perhaps not at all remotely and inside, where that distance is needed? Outside it's bullshit; inside it's necessary. Are they just gonna sit in that park and drink or drink at someone's house? So if you close those terraces at 6:00 p.m., I'd like to tell you so, maybe that could lead to us getting more infections instead of less. Consistent or inconsistent, be my guest, but we all have to have the goal of getting fewer infections? That doesn't help 6:00, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u38	I understand that question. That is why I outlined this just now in the debate with Mr Kuzu, 6 p.m. or 8 p.m., because the selling time of alcohol is 8 p.m. That's why I'm going to ask you one of my questions. I have already said it three times, so perhaps I won't have to repeat it in my speech. What we're looking for is how we can now take a step that gives us all a little space, a little perspective to do some things again. At the same time, that is where I started my input. We all have the responsibility to deal with this responsibly. I told you, we owe that to care. We owe this to entrepreneurs, to the catering companies, who rightly suck all the conditions attached to the opening of the terraces, but which are needed to get the infections, to get corona in the claws. And we owe it to each other, too. We owe it to each other that I don't get a little more of space than you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u39	I'm not saying it's not true what you're saying, but that wasn't my point. You're not responding to my point. My point was that when you close the terraces at 6:00 p.m., people start looking for each other at home, uncontrolled and unsupervised maybe not taking into account the 1.5 meters, having a drink with each other or going to the park and having a drink there from the supermarket, which sells after 6:00 p.m. still drinks that do not result in less infections, but more infections. Those outdoor terraces; friends and enemies now agree that you don't get many infections there. But if you're going to visit each other at home, inside, uncontrolled and have a drink there, it's more likely to lead to more infections than less. My question to you is not about space. My question is: if it does not help to reduce the number of infections, but it is likely that you will get more infections by closing at 6 p.m., why not adjust the 6 p.m., let go or what you say later, at least not 6 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u40	There are a number of assumptions in Mr Wilders' reasoning. My answer is as follows. One. It starts with: we all have a responsibility to deal with this responsibly. Two. Now that we're doing this, now that we're opening the terraces, which means we're going out with each other again, right between 6:00 and 8:00 p.m., that also requires something in terms of regulation, enforcement and how we organize it locally. I hardly dare to say it anymore, but I would like to go into that further in my speech. 'Cause those things are connected. I agree with Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u41	Sure, but my point is... Last time, Mr. Chairman. We have extended the visit of the people at home from one to two. Indeed, you can be at home with three people in total; I think colleague Van Haga or someone else said that. So if you're sitting on the terrace with one or two people, you can take them back to someone's house and continue drinking there if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u42	With one person, yes. Sorry, two people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u43	With two people. That was one, and that's going to be two. Then there's no one watching, that's a good thing, by the way, whether you're keeping your distance. It's not regulated. On that terrace, however ridiculous, once again, no one is infected outside. You can't do that inside. If you close the terraces together with those from one to two people at home and people go home, it doesn't lead to less, but probably more infections. That's my point. Perhaps you can only comment on that for a moment. Because if you agree with me, closing the terraces at 6 p.m. can never be the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u44	But then 8:00 doesn't matter, because then the same can still happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u45	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u46	I'm moving on. I said we're all obligated to do that. I have already indicated to Mrs Ploumen where that duty, that responsibility is towards care, but it is also towards entrepreneurs. They deserve this first small step to be followed by a further step, especially those from sectors which are not yet open at all. We must show them all that we are doing everything we can to ensure that they too will be given some space. And we owe it to each other not to look up the edges, not to waste space, but to earn new space with each other. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for giving us a look at the considerations and considerations that have been made in this decision in recent days, taking into account the state of affairs in hospitals, the pressure on our entrepreneurs and what we can still handle as a society. That's constantly looking for a balance. Sometimes it's part of taking a risk. That's what we're doing now. My group can see that, too. We also understand that the steps we are taking are subject to conditions. I have a number of questions about that. Why was the time lock chosen for the opening of the terraces 12:00 to 18:00? What are these times based on? I get that we don't want people to have beer at 8:00 or 10:00, because we all know that we're loosening up on that. But I just mentioned the example of the cup of coffee with that piece of apple pie at 10:00 or 11:00 in the morning. Why can't I? What does step 2 for the catering industry actually look like in that open plan? Is there any perspective for them? Is there room in there to do something with those times? Mr. Chairman. How sensible and responsible a large part of the people already is, we cannot do without regulation and enforcement. How do we prevent massive drinks when terraces are closed after 8:00? How do we ensure that basic rules are respected in parks and on the beach? What arrangements have been made with mayors? I also heard about the use of stewards, for example for crowd management. What powers do they have for this? And how are entrepreneurs involved in the way that regulation and enforcement are organised? Mr. Chairman. Continuing vaccination is crucial in order to be able to take the next steps in the open plan. Although we are not yet here to vaccinate, I would also like to compliment you on this. We have often been behind the Minister, and I am sure that will happen again today if vaccination is not fast enough, but I also want to be honest about it when things go well. Yesterday I saw in the state that we have climbed up again in the rankings. I know the Minister is not looking at that, but I would advise him to take a short look at it. Thank you also to the Minister for making appointments with the general practitioners and health services immediately after last week's debate on the rapid vaccination of people aged between 18 and 60 who are at greater risk. Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot to do over the last few days to get the field labs. I get that you're worried when you look out from Amphia Hospital over the city, that you're bummed like a plug when you're a catering entrepreneur, and you imagine that on such a day people are drooling around in front of your closed cafe. I also understand that as mayor, you don't issue a permit if you can't vouch for a good and safe course. But we don't have those field labs for nothing, so let's not put them in the dirt. We need the knowledge that is being gained there. How's the Cabinet looking at that now? Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we're talking about step one today. With the May holiday on the doorstep that is extra nice, but I would like to stress it again: it also brings with it a responsibility. Let's take all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u47	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u48	Mrs Hermans spoke of the so-called field labs. I really hope that we can quickly come up with another word for that, because I think it is really a stupid word. My question follows on from that, although I know that it is something else. We recently know that the cabinet intends to spend EUR 1 billion on what we have called the 'commercial fun tests'. Since a shorter time, we know that the cabinet is planning to do the following. If you want to go somewhere, whether it's about catering or a sports event, you have to get tested first. That will cost €7.50 per person. Roughly means that if you want to go somewhere with your family of four people, to a restaurant, for example, you should have a test at all. Does Mrs Hermans agree that this is a very antisocial proposal in itself, because it is absolutely impossible for a lot of people to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u49	Maybe we should talk about the tests first. Mrs Marijnissen and I discussed this last week. I also share her opinion on the word 'fieldlabs'. The fact that we're trying out how that works in different places, with an access test, how we behave with multiple people together, how we move, how we can do that in a situation where we're still dealing with the virus, is important to me. I also think it is right to offer perspective to our entrepreneurs, so that we can hopefully do additional things in the long term. I also believe that this type of activity, which we are now doing in a trial or testing environment, should soon be available and accessible to as many people as possible. I believe that the point Mrs Marijnissen refers to is in the law that is being debated next week. I can imagine that it will then be exactly this part. Like I said, I think it's important that it's accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u50	Okay, I'm glad to hear that. If Mrs Hermans says that she thinks it is important that it is accessible, she must agree that €7.50 per person per test if you want to go somewhere, will further strengthen the division, which has absolutely strengthened corona in our country. I really think this is an example of... I do not know exactly who came up with it, but I do think this is an example of something that is conceived here in The Hague by people who seem to have too little sense of what life looks like for a lot of people in the Netherlands. Because then you don't think of something like that, then you think that with €7.50 per person at a time you have to pay for a family of four €30, making things that should actually be accessible to everyone, not accessible. I would like Mrs Hermans to say: I think it is important that it is accessible and asking for €7.50 per person is really absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u51	I repeat, I think it is important that it is accessible. I also think it is important to add that, of course, we are in the process of vaccinating. If it continues at the rate we're happy to be on, we'll be a long way before the summer. Testing what Mrs Marijnissen is talking about will then play a different role in gaining access to activities. But I would like to say once again that I think it is important that in the coming period things are accessible to as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u52	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Then I give the floor to Mr Paternotte for an interruption and not yet for his input, I think. No, it's an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u53	That's right, Mr. Chairman. In the past, the VVD has also drawn attention to the safety of incoming passengers. Now we have a flight ban for all of South America and also South Africa because of the variants there. We see that in India, the number of infections has increased fivefold in a month, to more than 315,000 a day. This seems to be mainly due to the fact that one variant has taken over all of it there. How does the VVD view the idea that we are now also going to use the measures we have for South America for India?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u54	A fair question from Mr Paternotte, especially if you look at those numbers. We don't know all about the Indian variant yet, so I understand that's still being looked at. But the feeling that so many people are getting sick and there are still so many flights on a daily basis makes me think the question is right and very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u55	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte for his contribution to the first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u56	Mr. Chairman. "A balancing act," the Prime Minister called it Tuesday. A balancing act on a thin thread, which is actually as tight as it was a week ago. A thread the cabinet says we can walk on it now, or maybe even more rope dancing. There is also a thread that some hospitals say is about to explode and the OMT says "be careful," although this team of course also sketches favorable forecasts on the other hand. All things considered, my group supports the relaxations, also because they are not giant steps. But they do mean a lot to a lot of people. I am thinking, for example, of young people and students, who can finally get rid of the daily rhythm of "eat, drag, zoom, repeat," or of that shopkeeper who can finally open the door of the shop again. And of course we're also glad the curfew goes out. I hope he never sees the light again. Mr. Chairman. Still, I have some questions. Last week it was also about communication, about sailing from hope to disappointment, about the importance of having a constant straight line from this crisis. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can reflect on the past week and why it has been so confusing. What actually happened between last Friday's press conference, when the Prime Minister said that it might be mid-May and that he was gloomy, and less than 48 hours later, when the news leaked that the relaxations were going on on 28 April? I also have a few questions about these relaxations. It is of course nice that the terraces open again. But indeed: why was the 18.00 hour rule chosen? And why wasn't the link made to the alcohol sales limit at 8:00? In addition, I ask myself the following. The shops will open next week, but the libraries won't. Can the Minister explain what makes sense that you can walk into a store, but not a library? Mr. Chairman. I'd be happy to come back to the vaccination. A lot has happened over the past week and there is also good news. More vaccination is taking place. I would like to congratulate the Minister on the sensible decision to continue pricking the Janssen vaccine, because that is the only way to get out of the crisis. As a blow to the flames, the European RIVM, the ECDC, concludes something groundbreaking, namely that vaccinees no longer need to keep their distance from each other and no longer need mouth caps. Still, I read that nursing homes do not feel completely free to relax. Is the Minister prepared, with this directive in hand, to grant the nursing homes even more freedoms and to talk to them, so that they feel free to relax? Mr. Chairman. In addition, I have spoken to many general practitioners who were pleased with our motion on freedom of choice for the AstraZeneca vaccine, even at 60-min. But general practitioners are also afraid that the inspection is on their heels. The sudden decision of the inspection, which was withdrawn last Tuesday, did not help. Can the Minister confirm that if a general practitioner has AstraZeneca vaccines left over and, in close consultation with a patient under 60 years of age, decides to give the vaccine, this doctor cannot be held liable? I'd like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u57	Mrs Ploumen has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u58	About vaccinating. It is important that vaccines become available to everyone worldwide in the Netherlands, Europe. I think Mr Paternotte agrees with me. But there's something in the way. That's the pharmaceutical industry, sticking to its patents and intellectual property. There is a call from countries to temporarily remove those patents from industry and to ensure that worldwide production can get off to a truly large scale. We made a call in the newspaper this morning, along with Diederik Gommers. My question to Mr Paternotte is whether he can support that call. Remove those patents temporarily, so that as many vaccines as possible can be produced worldwide, so that we are all safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u59	You have to think carefully about the proposal you're making. Together with the SP, I believe in February, we called for a European approach to ensure that the pharmaceutical industry does indeed share their knowledge and put pressure on them so that more can be produced. In any case, I would like to hear from the Minister, even now that you are bringing it up, what he thinks has resulted in this and what he has done about it. We are also in favour of sub-licensing and were earlier in favour of the initiative to ensure that there will be a global patent pool. Mrs Westerveld is going to say some things about what I think I agree with. Well, let's talk about the compulsory licenses. Look at what happened at the factory in America. I've seen you and your partymates tweet about that. Also because that plant was not under supervision or under insufficient supervision of the pharmaceutical industry itself, it went wrong there and millions of vaccines were lost there. Your proposal for compulsory licences would mean that you will have vaccines made, such as Pfizer and Moderna, without Pfizer and Moderna being involved. I don't know if that's really wise at this stage. We cannot afford these risks, at least we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u60	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u61	Mr. Chairman. Another question about the purchase of extra vaccines for this autumn and even for 2022. Looks like we're gonna need those boosters. Preference is given to mRNA vaccines, such as Pfizer and Moderna, while much is still unknown about the longer term effects of these vaccines. CureVac and Janssen may have a longer duration of action. In other words, don't we bet too much on one horse? I saw the minister nod at what I said earlier, so I'm curious to hear the answer. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the flight ban. I don't get it anyway. We asked written questions about the flights from India this week. You see the United Kingdom come up with a flight ban and France with a mandatory ten-day quarantine. On a flight from India that arrived in Hong Kong, dozens of people turned out to be infected on board. That wasn't discovered until the 12th day of the quarantine. Now the Minister refers to an opinion of RIVM of 26 March, but on 26 March the number of infections in India was 62.000. Yesterday, that was 315,000. There's a variant out there that takes over completely. Does the Minister agree with us that it would be wise to take the same measures for India now as for South America, at least to be sure and stop imports of that virus mutation now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u62	Thank you. Are you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u64	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to comment on these flight bans, because I am curious: has D66 changed vision with regard to the flight bans? In recent months and last year, the Animal Party has repeatedly tabled motions aimed at introducing flight bans in crisis situations. I call it the flight ban for Portugal when it was very intense there. High risk areas? Flying bans. I'd really like it if D66 were to plead for no-flying forever, but I'm so curious: why are we hearing that from D66 now, when we actually needed it months ago? So what's changed now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u66	The difference is that the Animal Party has regularly advocated a flight ban for all countries outside Europe and many countries within Europe. We did not, but I think you saw last year that we were at least one of the first to say that you need a flight ban for Spain, Italy and Austria. Eventually, the cabinet set it up. Later we did the same for the United Kingdom and for Brazil. Yeah, and now I'm doing it for India. We will probably not agree on the purpose of the Party for Animals, which is to halve aviation in the Netherlands, but I do not think this debate is about that either. All I can see is that there are real concerns about India in Europe specifically. For example, the Imperial College in London also indicates that the variant it has now taken over in India will become a "variant or group." That is clearly the case. More and more countries are taking action, and I would rather see us leading the way than bumping behind it and paying the price for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u67	I'm glad to hear that. It feels like a step forward, because this is just a high-risk country. There have also been motions from the Animal Party which say: let's say that for high-risk countries. Even then, D66 didn't give home. I therefore welcome this step and hope that we can continue to do so. It is also important to regulate flight bans in this way, because we must take every step to prevent such risks from entering the Netherlands. I am therefore pleased with it, but I hope that from now on we will really look at those high-risk countries. And India is indeed one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u68	Let me be clear: virtually the whole world is now made up of high-risk countries or orange regions. There may be a few exceptions, like Iceland or Australia, but dhe concerns almost the whole world. That's what you want a flight ban for. You made that clear, too. We are not in favour of this, but if in countries something like a fivefold increase in a month and hundreds of thousands of registered infections is going on, I do not know if the registration and testing in India are so large-scale that everything is being detected, then we say that you probably need a flight ban and then we ask the Cabinet to explain why an opinion from a month ago, when the situation was completely different, could say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u69	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u70	Mr President, thank you very much. We're finally getting a little bit of our freedom back. This terrible curfew is finally lifted after almost 100 days and the visitor scheme is slightly expanded. But otherwise, frankly, it's not that much. Take the terraces. A day after King's Day they can open a very small bit, provided about 85 bullshit rules are met, from numbers of people per terrace and per table to the distance to be kept. It'll make you crazy. I'm already hungover from that without a drop of water. And what crazy person makes it up to close the terraces at 6:00 in the evening? How strange can you be? Many people will then visit each other at home to have another drink or will move to the park nearby with a drink from the local supermarket. That's why we get more than less infections. And for the catering entrepreneur, it is quite disappointing. My call is: open up the terraces completely, without all those silly restrictive rules around it and scrape that end time of 18.00 hours. At all, remove that one-and-a-half-meter dictatate in the outdoors. The risk of infection outside is incredibly small and it is insane that you can get a fine for that in this country. Because of the too slow start-up and not starting at the same time with the oldest people between 60 and 70 years old, our ic's are now full instead of empty. I wish you'd listened to us. Had the people between 60 and 70 years old, the group that is most often on the ice, but rather pricked, we would have been spared a lot of misery. We would have had our freedom long ago. But none of that has happened, and as a result there are now no less than 839 corona patients in our intensive cares, who are fighting for their lives. The limit of what the hospitals can handle is almost reached. I ask the Prime Minister what will happen if the number of 1,500 people on the ICIs is still reached. Last Tuesday, the Chamber adopted a motion from D66 to allow people under 60 years of age to choose whether or not they want to be voluntarily pricked with AstraZeneca. Carry out that motion, I'll tell the cabinet. And I urge the cabinet again, once again, to let people over 60 years of age who no longer have confidence in AstraZeneca choose an alternative. Take care of that, get an alternative. The PVV does not want a test society, and certainly not a test society that only makes the catering and events accessible to people who have to pay €7.50 per person each time for a test. Stop wasting all that precious time and all that money with the idioticity of a test society for at most.. what is it? Two months, and finally finish that voluntary vaccination. And don't use that 925 million euros for testing, but invest it in staff in intensive care. That'll do us some good. Then hospital care. Hospital care in the Netherlands is very heavy, heavy. Only emergency operations continue in many hospitals. And the people who need an open heart surgery or a kidney transplant or other surgery in the short term must wait, because the corona crisis has been dealt with wrongly, because care has been broken down in recent years. And for a lot of sick people, and we are talking far too little about it here, the suffering is inconceivable. It is a shame that this is still happening a year after the start of the corona crisis. A year after the start of the corona crisis, and nothing has changed. There is no beginning of a solution to the scaled-down care. And what's the Prime Minister gonna do to reverse all the suffering of those sick people who don't get their surgery and make sure they still get their care, their surgery? The Minister of Medical Affairs is here, I understand, for personal reasons. I assume the Prime Minister himself answers these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u71	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. And it is true that the Minister for Medical Affairs, or Care, is not there because of a private activity, but the directors have assured me that they can answer all the questions. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesday was the opening question at the press conference that the Prime Minister got from journalism, or the cabinet gambled. And after the answer, there was a "game." The Prime Minister said no, but it's exciting. It is a balancing act, as Mr Paternotte just mentioned, and a balanced risk. And I think that both the question posed by the NIS and the Prime Minister's answer show how complicated the dance we do with the virus is, and how we all find ourselves somewhere with these relaxations between breathing relievedly and holding our breath tense. During the technical briefing this morning, following a question by Mrs Pouw-Verweij, Jaap van Dissel indicated that it is a matter of days whether it is too early or whether it is going to work out well. But he also indicated that the moment of relaxation does not actually affect the height of a possible peak in care, but especially the speed at which the decrease is deployed. At the same time, the question to the cabinet is justified as to how it is going to keep its finger on the pulse in the next week if the predictions and assumptions in that model are in practice different from what is predicted today. That may be in a negative sense, in fact, the line on which Mrs Ploumen is sitting, but that can also be in a positive sense, so that the decline is going faster. What is the government going to do if the assumptions in the model and the predictions that we are entering a new phase are not correct? And if, for example, it goes faster, on what basis is it decided on that step 2? I would like to join Mrs Hermans' question on the catering industry. What if it turns out that things are going well in the hospitality industry? We've been having a discussion here for some time about its impact on distribution. We have been having a discussion for several months about whether opening the terraces has a sucking effect or whether it is also a way to better regulate the outdoor space. The Prime Minister indicated last week that it is his expectation that when the terraces open, not only the terraces will be full but the parks will still be. Is he still assuming that? In what way does the government want to talk to the municipalities about this? The Prime Minister indicated last week in an interrupting debate that there will be a discussion with the mayors tomorrow in which the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health will also be present. In what way is this conversation used to help these municipalities spread the crowds better, especially now that the terraces are opening? In the press conference last Tuesday, but also in the letter, the question of whether people are going to keep up with this relaxation or whether it is going to wear off. The Prime Minister also referred to last summer's error, not only with a lot more being extended, but also with the enforcement of rules and the maintenance of the framework conditions for relaxation. What is being done to prevent this from happening? I should also like to mention the question that Mr Dassen asked last week about that text message in Norway. I understand from the letter that the cabinet says, "We don't." But the letter also refers to the fact that a NL alert has been used in the past, but that the cabinet is very reluctant to do so. But it is precisely in this situation that the cabinet itself warns that there is a risk that it will fade after a few weeks and that the rules will be stretched that such a NL alert can at the right time bring people to the realization that they must comply with the measures. That is a little in line with what Mr van Volt has said. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. In response to Mr Paternotte's question about a flight ban from India, the cabinet indicated that there is no VOC yet. I was reminded of Mr Balkenende, but a VOC is a variant or group of companies. The cabinet states that every Thursday the WHO will look into whether there is any reason to regard it as a VOC. Now it's Thursday. I would like to know whether there is any knowledge of how this consultation with the WTO is currently taking place. Because there is something going on in India. Mr Van Dissel said this morning that this may also have to do with certain groups which do not comply with measures. But that is done on a very large scale, because you can see the speed with which it rises. So is it already known whether it is now referred to as such a worrying variant? And how soon after that happens, is a flight ban imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u73	There is an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u74	I hear Mrs Marijnissen asking if I'm ready. I've got more, but I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u75	Then I'll help Mr. Heerma get some more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u76	Whether that really helps depends on the subjects you are asking questions about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u77	That is a subject that I am sure you will find extremely important. That's the health bonus. My question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u78	It wasn't on my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u79	It wasn't on your list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u80	But you are forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u81	That's what I suspected, so let me remind you. Quit fooling around, Mr. Chairman. My question to Mr Heerma is very serious. At the moment, the engagements in the care are withdrawn. The ic's are full, surgeries are canceled and caregivers just don't like it anymore. Where the services are doubled, the bonus promised by this cabinet to our caregivers is not doubled, but is halved. Doesn't Mr Heerma think that is particularly antisocial at this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u82	Last week's debate discussed in detail the letter and the question of whether the first or the second variant is the most sensible. I think the right choice was made by opting for that second option, whereby everyone is eligible for it. This is part of the whole discussion that took place last autumn on the occasion of the first motion. This has the consequence that the individual bonus per person is reduced. But in total, last year and this year, 3 billion will be allocated to that healthcare bonus. That really is a lot of money, that we all bring together to show that appreciation to the care workers. In my opinion, in the letter from the cabinet, a little dodged what the cabinet itself thought when choosing it, but the minister clearly went for option two in the debate. That was also the option that we as a group were leaning towards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u83	That was the option that the CDA Group wanted, we saw in the votes. After all, it was the CDA that, with D66, VVD and ChristenUnion, has now ensured that caregivers do not receive that bonus of €500. The wretched thing is, of course, there's so much money for this. I have just mentioned the billion euros that the cabinet is going to spend on commercial testing, for example. That's what they do in missionary status. It has been promised to health care professionals, the people we are asking for the utmost. They are now being told by your party, among other things: "Yes, sorry, but that just costs too much. We don't keep our own promise; you only get half a bonus."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u84	It is good that Mrs Marijnissen saw our voting behaviour. Her first interruption made it look like she hadn't seen it. We have indeed voted against this motion because in the given situation, with the healthcare bonus that has already been, we are opting for option two of the additional health bonus that is now available. All employees are eligible for this, but I understand that the SP does not want to do so. There are not hundreds of millions of extra allocated to increase this. That is the choice we have made. We therefore support the development of option two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u85	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen of the SP for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u86	Mr. Chairman. Things aren't going well in health care at all. I just mentioned that. The ic's are full, the engagements of caregivers have been withdrawn and surgeries and treatments are called off for a lot of people who need care. At the same time, the whole of the Netherlands is looking forward to just being able to go out again or visiting family and friends. We, as the SP Group, naturally want to emphasise the importance of vaccination. Vaccinate as many people as possible as soon as possible is the only way out of this crisis. Money, energy and time now threaten to be invested in setting up the so-called test society. I just mentioned the billion euros. Then the SP says, "Don't do that. Rather put that time, that energy and that money into vaccinating people as quickly as possible." Mr. Chairman. I've been talking about the health bonus for a while. Of course, it's extra harsh there. It is particularly worrying that, on the one hand, this outgoing cabinet can provide a billion euros for the design of these commercial tests. We think: why do that now? Hopefully we're going to have a vaccinated summer. So why choose now to allow commercial parties to make money from that? Add that such a test will cost €7.50 per person. You have to ask the question if you should want to do that at all. The SP doesn't think so. We think it's something quite different when you do small-scale experiments, where you start to see how the virus develops and where people volunteer to be tested. We find this fundamentally different from asking for a test for something that should actually be part of everyday life: a getaway, a visit to a restaurant, sports; you name it. That is going to cost €7.50 per person. I was just saying, for a four-year-old family, that means $30, and then you're in. The cabinet really organises a division in society. The SP cannot support that at all. Mr President, then the health bonus. That's actually what I wanted to make. So there is the billion euro for that, but it is precisely at this moment, when we ask for the utmost of them, that we say to our healthcare providers: 'Sorry, the cabinet has promised you a health bonus itself, but we cannot keep that promise. It's too expensive. You can whistle for that." Otherwise, the bonus will be cut in half, thanks to the coalition parties. Mr President, my clock is not running, so I... It's starting to happen now. I'm in a good place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u87	I'm so glad you brought that out. I wanted to pass it on very subtlely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u88	I had a hunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u89	We can make an assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u90	You're going to make an assessment. It's a little trickier for me, but I'm gonna do my best. I would like to say a few words about what exactly is the strategy that the cabinet is pursuing. That is a discussion that we have had very often here. We have often discussed this with the Prime Minister, including Mr Asscher. Very often that was about the question: is the strategy now to contain the virus? That means, when it comes up, take measures and flatten. Or is it: maximize checking and let it go around a little bit? There was some confusion about this, especially after the Prime Minister's speech from the Tower, in which he talked about the so-called group immunity. At one point the cabinet said: no, that group immunity is not a goal, but more a consequence. At some point I was even accused of having a semantic discussion, because it was indeed contained, but by the maximum control it was contained. What does Wob's requests tell us now? This shows that there has indeed been talk of the controlled raging of the virus. However, that should be explained outwardly as the maximum control of the virus. Those are two very different things: getting controlled raging or restraining the virus! I very much wonder if this is not yet another time that the Chamber has been lied to about exactly what the corona approach of the cabinet has been. I can imagine that this parliamentary survey, which is undoubtedly going to be carried out, should also provide an answer to this question. I guess I'm gonna have to finish. That's what I do about the measures. The SP absolutely supports the return of personal freedoms to people. We have previously argued for the end of curfew, the measure supposedly on top of the pile. We can also support two people visiting the house and making better use of the outdoor areas. Our main concern is economic easing, especially now that you see that the OMT is still expressing real doubts and the hospitals are still overcrowded. Wouldn't it be better to do that through better support packages? We think that if you need to close your case from the government, you need to be fully compensated. We see the busy shopping streets in front of us again. In a situation where not everyone is protected from the virus, in which the OMT expresses great concern, in which the care sector expresses great concern, we, as SP, also wish to express our concern today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u91	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Heerma. You were at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u92	Yeah, I had to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u93	Mrs Marijnissen has also been given so little time by the President. When Mrs. Marijnissen stood up to me, I thought she was going to ask a question about the GD. The SP has written an own-initiative paper on this and a lot of attention has been paid to this in the newspaper by the AD in recent days. That was a point that was still on my list. However, since she asked a question about the health bonus, I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u94	Now you're asking me your own question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u95	Of course, because of the lack of speaking time, you have not reached this point. The AD's articles talk about whether the GDPDs are sufficiently crisis-resistant. This has also led the SP to write the own-initiative paper. It is still being discussed, but these pieces discuss the need for more reserveists from the GGD leaders. I have also tabled a motion with Mr Wilders on healthcare reserves. The call contained in it is that there should also be more reservists recruited from GMDs who can do BCO in times of crisis or help with pricking, so that it does not have to be rebuilt, if a next crisis breaks out. My question to Mrs Marijnissen is how she looks at this appeal from the Health Department, in anticipation of the own-initiative paper, which will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u96	I am glad that Mr Heerma mentions our own initiative paper on this subject. We do indeed have a lot of ideas on how we could strengthen our health services again. As a SP, we have always strongly opposed the cuts that have been made, which may be known. When the GGD at some point became the responsibility of the municipality, with less money, you saw that municipalities had to choose between investing extra in the GGD and keeping the library open. We do not want that at all, so we have put a whole package of ideas into an initiative paper to strengthen the GDPR. That is also about control: who has control in times of crisis and at all? I say specifically about the reservists: yes, we can support that. But I do think it's important to note one thing. It shouldn't be a Band-Aid. That is what I consider to be the great danger of this discussion. Yes, we can support it, but we would rather see better structural investment in the GDPs. I don't mean to be impolite, but the SP saw this crisis a little earlier than the corona crisis. However, this corona crisis has shown once again how important it is to invest structuralally in our public health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u97	During the latest General Political Reviews, I indicated that in this crisis many parties realised that too much was merely looking at efficiency. This has become clear to many parties. But I also indicated at that time that some parties, such as the SP, have been advocating this for some time now, so I have never had any difficulty in recognising that. At the same time, I note that it is not about sticking patches. The debate on how we deal with care after this crisis, broad, and whether care is crisis-proof enough, will also be addressed in the evaluation. But right now, a lot of people have been recruited. Now is the chance, just as it does with healthcare reserves, not to lose those people. That's not a patch sticking, but just making sure that you can do what you can now, namely keep people, already doing, in anticipation of the long discussions that will come after the corona crisis and the evaluation. That is what Mrs Marijnissen supports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u98	Yes, we certainly agree. We have consistently argued here that we should pay the people who do source and contact research or work at the GGD, for example, to ensure that it is also attractive to do that work. But the important point I want to make here is that it must not end there. We really need to look much more structurally and fundamentally at the health services and their important task in terms of prevention and public health. We really think the GDPDs have been neglected for a long time. That is why we have written a complete own-initiative paper on this subject. I am very much looking forward to the treatment of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u99	I actually have an informative question for Mrs Marijnissen. At the end of her speech, I think after 3 minutes of 58 seconds, she went into the proposal that the cabinet is now taking on 28 April. She made a distinction between personal freedoms and economic measures, indicating: I have more difficulty with the latter. Does she actually say that we have to break it up, that we want to break it up, that we are against? Or should I interpret that differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u100	I don't think that's a crazy idea. Of course, I would also like to hear exactly what the government's considerations are. I am going to ask the cabinet that question. But taking such a step, at the moment when the figures are still so bad and also the OMT is very reserved and expresses his concern... I can see it again: very busy shopping streets, people who might be in line. We think that at the moment when you can allow personal freedoms, you should do so. We think that's very important. But we think that this should always go beyond economic easing. This could be achieved by, for example, improving and extending the support packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u101	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte and Minister De Jonge, against the advice of the OMT, announce relaxations and thus claim to take an acceptable risk. But what do they see as an acceptable risk? How many sick people is that? How much deferred care? How many overburdened care workers? What's acceptable? Not everyone's been vaccinated yet. The number of infections is still high. Today, almost 10,000 people tested positive. The Groningen Martini Hospital shuts down eight operating rooms and has to move new patients. The Franciscus Gasthuis in Rotterdam warns about code black. They see that as a real opportunity. Regular care is delayed, ic nurses have to nurse several very sick people, care staff is asked to postpone the May holiday. And since spring 2020, there haven't been so many corona patients in intensive care. Last week, a gloomy Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, seemed to be aware of the seriousness of the situation. Soothings had to be postponed, how much we all are, I am of course one of those who crave more freedom of movement. But relaxations, the preimier said, could only happen if the influx into the hospitals dropped. But now he's saying something else. He announced on Tuesday at the press conference the biggest relaxations in months. That decision is not based on data and scientific insights and advice from the OMT, and certainly not on a strategy of maximum restraint. It's random. That is why there is no way of getting on with it, and it undermines the basis for action. Because what really changed compared to last weekend? The figures for the ic shots show the biggest increase in two weeks. The tax remains the same and the risks are not reduced. On the basis of these figures, the OMT also says that relaxation is not justified. Last week, I told the Cabinet there was no corona strategy. That will be confirmed this week. Or is there a strategy after all? Mrs Marijnissen has already spoken about this. The documents released yesterday show that the so-called herd immunity was the purpose of the cabinet. But that is a bankrupt strategy that leads to more infections, more sick people and more recordings. I want to know from the Prime Minister what the status of those documents is. Who were they discussed with? And has building that group immunity been or has it not been a goal of Dutch policy? Finally, Mr President, two brief points. How is the Minister going to carry out my adopted motion, which asked for general practitioners to be able to vaccinate patients at greater risk due to corona with astraZeneca spilling? And is the Minister willing to investigate the best care for people who lead to long covid? In the United Kingdom they have special facilities for this. There is a large number of people who bear the consequences of corona for a long time. Mr. Chairman. We all want our freedom back. But only if this cabinet is prepared to really do what is needed can this be a credible perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u103	I was already standing in the first half of your speech, but before I make my interruption, I am curious to hear the answer to the question about long covid. Mrs Ploumen also announces that she does not want any relaxations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u104	We'd like to relax, but they can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u105	But last week in the debate, Mrs Ploumen did not mention this. Last week, the cabinet presented the roadmap. That is where the date of 28 April was mentioned. At that time the figures were not very different from the figures now; the plateau Mr Van Dissel was talking about. Then Mrs Ploumen repeatedly talked about the dates and the Prime Minister merely capitalized on the fact that he had not fulfilled his promise of 21 April. Why didn't she say a word about this last week and now use such harsh words? Does this mean that the Labour Party believes that the colleges should not open on 26 April? Do you want them to stay closed? Is that the consequence of what the PvdA says? In the past, the PvdA has also supported motions that say opening terraces can contribute to better distribution. And now you want them to stay closed? How does this position relate to the positions taken by the PvdA earlier? What's to be reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u106	Thank you to Mr Heerma for those questions. I pointed out to the cabinet last week that it has no strategy and that the decisions announced are inimitable. First it would be relaxed on 21 April, then it was 28 April. In that context, I spoke about 21 April. What has changed now is that not only that inimitable policy has been pursued, on Friday the Prime Minister said that it might be mid-May, but on Tuesday he announced that it could still continue, but that there is an advice from the OMT not to do it or to do it only with certain criteria. I also advocate this starting point: let us follow the advice of the OMT. It is true that we supported that motion earlier. Of course, I think we all did. In any case, the Labour Party has done so, but our idea that this could be done was based on declining numbers of infections. Congratulations to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development for the well-organised vaccination strategy, but we can see that the infections are on the rise. And just then, contrary to the advice of the OMT, the cabinet says: we are simply going to relax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u107	Your last question, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u108	I've counted, Mr. Chairman. But still, last week the PvdA didn't say anything at all: it can't be done from the 28th. The PvdA simply stated that the Prime Minister did not make it to 28 April and that is why he should not have made that promise. That and nothing else was Mrs Ploumen's approach to that debate. I repeat my question, because I did not refer in my term to the answer to Mrs Pouw-Verweij's questions this morning in the technical briefing. Mr Van Dissel has indicated that it is a matter of days whether it may be a little too early. And yet the PvdA says here: no terraces open, the curfew maintain, not from one to two visitors and, above all, colleges do not open. That's the position the PvdA chooses here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u109	The position the PvdA chooses here is: follow OMT's advice. And the OMT says this. I will read it very precisely to Mr Heerma as well: please wait until the seven-day average has fallen by 10% when it comes to hospital and ic recordings. So I'd say, let's ask the OMT to monitor exactly every day. Take a decision on the basis of this, and that may well be next week if those ICU admissions and hospitalizations fall. Make the decision when the OMT says that that criterion is met. Monitor that day by day. That's responsible policy. Once again, I come from Maastricht and there is no one who would rather sit on a terrace than me, but I also think that we should be responsible, even here in the Lower House, and should base ourselves on the advice of the OMT. And those opinions say something other than relaxing and announcing the biggest relaxations in months. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u110	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week outgoing Prime Minister Rutte started the press conference with a quote from a hospital director who lived in two worlds, on the one hand a world in which people crave relaxation and on the other hand a world with an approaching code black on the ic. Soothings are not possible, was then the conclusion of the cabinet. This week there are similar figures, but then the message is 'we're going to relax'! And yes, society craves more space, but the communication of the cabinet is inimitable. One week is giving hope to the strategy of the cabinet and the other week the cabinet hides behind the experts' advice, even on political considerations. And another week later, the obvious advice of the OMT is kicked in the wind not to relax, until we know for sure that the peak of the third wave is behind us. My question, therefore, is exactly what the cabinet is basing its decision on to relax. What are the underlying thoughts? And how can it be explained that in the week it is made easier for the Erasmus MC to announce that it closes half of the operating rooms because of the high occupancy in intensive care? By the way, we saw more alarming reports from hospitals today. If we are going to relax, why didn't this cabinet give education more priority? That is what we agreed on. It is true that there will be more room, but the colleges are not yet fully open. It is not that I would necessarily like to do so, but it is of course that we have said together here: if we are going to relax, then curfew and education are a priority. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the cabinet what they think is doing with the support of the measures. How can you expect people to follow these measures when there is such arbitrariness? I would like a clear explanation on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u112	Mrs Westerveld rightly points to a number of critical noises on the part of the care. Of course, there are also things on the other side. As Mr Van Dissel said, the relaxation will not affect the number of Ic recordings. Mr Kuipers said last Monday: I think the peak of the third wave has been reached. Mrs Ploumen said quite clearly here that she is against all these relaxations, that we should not do all that, that the colleges can indeed not open one day. My question is whether you draw the same conclusion. Or do you say: I have some questions, but I would also like to be convinced?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u113	I get that question. We talked about it this morning, of course, in the technical briefing. Mr Van Dissel was there to explain. He was asked: how do you look at this? I did not hear much joy in the sound of Mr Van Dissel, I have to tell you quite frankly. It is not for nothing that I ask these critical questions. Because I don't understand why last week's message was that we can't relax and that that message is a whole different message this week, when we don't see any encouraging figures at all. That is what I heard you say in your contribution, by the way. That's why I'm asking these questions to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u114	Sure, I get those questions. But if I understand correctly, isn't it the case that GroenLinks here says 'don't do these relaxations, we are against them', as Mrs Ploumen said?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u115	I'm not drawing that conclusion right now. But I do not rule out the possibility that we will go that way when that motion is tabled. 'Cause I was just saying that communication is inimitable. I don't understand what's behind that. But I am very curious what the cabinet will say about that later. Mr. Chairman. We were talking about arbitrariness in the government's approach to the corona measures. But the cabinet also has a blinking relationship with the care workers. One week, the outgoing Prime Minister praises the heroes of care. During the other week we hear from the outgoing minister for medical care that there is still a cut on the health bonus. Here too, we see little consistency. Mr. Chairman. I also said it last week: let us keep an eye on the weak in society. I am very happy that the Minister immediately made an appointment with the people of the action group Don't forget us, Hugo! I am very pleased that there has been a change in this vaccination strategy and that the people with vulnerable health are now ahead of us. I would like to draw attention to the growing number of homeless people and homeless people this week. Because in a few weeks, hundreds of homeless people will be thrown out because of the new Cabinet Directive. They would not have the right to emergency shelter, so they would not have the right to a bed and a roof over the head. I'm really worried about this. I would ask the Cabinet to reconsider that directive. If mercy is not a convincing argument, let us think about public health. Together with my colleague Mrs Simons, I am considering a motion for a resolution. Mr. Chairman. We must also look beyond our own borders. Last week it was announced that the EU will once again discuss new vaccine deals with Pfizer. I would like to ask the cabinet: what is the stake in these negotiations? How is the cabinet going to ensure that pharmaceuticals share their knowledge? C-TAP, the platform where vaccine developers and pharmacists can voluntarily share their knowledge, hardly comes off the ground. How does the Cabinet ensure that this will happen? How is the cabinet going to ensure that countries are allowed to export their vaccines to developing countries without first requiring the approval of producers? As well as being obliged as rich countries to help other countries, it is, of course, about more. That virus doesn't stick to national boundaries. That is why it is our job, with all the rich countries of the world, to ensure that vaccines are also available to poor countries. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Mr President, a final word. We're still in the middle of the third wave, but we also need to look ahead. I would like to ask the Cabinet to ensure that this division in society does not increase. Questions were also rightly asked by Mrs Marijnissen about the €7.50 for testing; this increases the division in society. How do we reduce this division in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u116	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u117	Mr. Chairman. In the past, a good leader was someone who made the right choices for his subjects. The leader weighed down the risks and the damage and, in all conscience, made the best decision. How different it is now. We call this corona crisis a health crisis, but in fact it is an administrative crisis, where incompetence and fear compete for the first place. Ira Helsloot rightly referred to this as "policy isomorphia." That is the phenomenon in which a leader does not make a cost-benefit assessment in his policy, but looks at the strictest countries around him, which copies a little and ensures that he can never be addressed at a risk he has taken. As a result, choices are becoming more risk-avoidable. This cabinet will therefore never be paid for the collateral damage of the deadly lockdowns, the school closures, the curfew and the meaningless duty of mouthcaps. That is not right, but we are confidently waiting for the parliamentary inquiry. Mr. Chairman. After a year and a half of damaging mop policy, which did not scale up the care, derailed the vaccination project and closed society for over a year, the Minister now comes up with a new dramatic idea, namely the test society. This idea suddenly occurred to him that there was no time to tender for a pilot of EUR 925 million. How many extra ic-beds with accompanying staff could we have organized for this astronomical amount? And what research has been done into the desirability, impact and damage of such a terrible sham solution? Can we get this report in the short term? Mr. Chairman. When exactly did the Minister decide that we should proceed to rapid tests before we can participate in anything? Pure deception, because many people have just been vaccinated on the assumption that they would get their freedom back. And why did the Minister last week answer to my question who would pay for that not just that we would get a bill the next day stating that the customer will pay €7.50 per test? Did he know about that proposal at the time? Mr. Chairman. The PCR test is a test that, without additional clinical examination, cannot demonstrate whether someone is infected or contagious. In addition to the fact that asymptomates do not pose any risk at all because they are not contagious, it makes no sense to test people without complaints. But with the antigen rapid test, the situation is much worse. Research by the LUMC into Abbott's rapid tests shows that even in a hospital setting of the people with complaints and a positive PCR test, no less than 40% is detected with this rapid test. In addition to the standard false positives, we now also have to deal with a huge percentage of false negatives. Billions are going to be spent on the illusion of safety in the test society, whereas technically this is total nonsense. I wonder why the risk of a field lab with 10,000 people is being taken, but the risk of opening the terraces is still too great. What are the estimated annual costs for society, if this mass test dystopia becomes reality? What physical, mental and emotional damage will our children suffer if they have to be tested a few times a week to get to school? And what toxic substances are they actually exposed to in these tests? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet comes up with one false solution after another and the damage is incalculable, while the solution is so simple: protect the vulnerable, ensure that there is sufficient capacity in care and stay home when you are ill. But this cabinet is falling on the path of destructivity, and that's why I call on all Dutch people: let's stop this madness! Let us use our common sense again and let us not participate in this madness of this cabinet! So don't get tested again if you don't have any complaints. Even Prime Minister Rutte has stated that there is no point in having you tested if you have no complaints, so let's follow this good example. We need to get this cabinet back under control and get our freedom back, so no complaints: don't get tested. Let's boycott this ridiculous test society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u118	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Due to the high pressure on care, the uncertainty about the forecasts and the fact that most of the population is not yet protected from the virus, the relaxations are a pretty exciting step. We are therefore concerned about the announced relaxations. Young people may now be more at risk and become seriously ill or develop long-term covid complaints. We must therefore recognise, and the cabinet must certainly acknowledge, that we are taking a big chance on this. At the same time, we also see that society is dying of breath. The mental and social consequences of this lockdown are enormous. The cabinet sees room to open the terraces and the retail trade, but, as GroenLinks pointed out, the students and students still only go to school one day a week. Is the government prepared to give education more space as soon as possible? Can the cabinet look again closely at the opportunities for promoting sport and culture in the open plan? Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, the Chamber has often asked for more testing for access. The agreement with the Chamber was always that it would be small-scale and experimental. As far as we're concerned, the events we're seeing right now, with thousands of people, do not fit in at all. Moreover, there are a lot of questions to ask about the scientific value and transparency in this process. The €7.50, as has already been pointed out, also creates, as far as we are concerned, a division in society that we should not want. We wonder if the Minister recognizes these problems. Unfortunately, it gives little confidence in the process surrounding the test certificates so far. We therefore find the far-reaching law that we have had in our mailbox and which the Minister of VWS wanted to coat through this Chamber in just one week anything but beautiful. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands needs a cabinet that will do everything in its power to solve the climate and biodiversity crisis. UN Chief Guterres said this week: the world is on the brink of climate change. The corona crisis hasn't changed anything about that. In fact, emissions will rise rapidly, as a new report shows. The loss of nature and the destruction of life in the oceans disturb the ecosystems that we are so dependent on. As long as livestock farming remains in its present form and size, a new pandemic may break out at any time. If we don't use this moment to radically change the course, the disruption that caused Corona will be just a taste of what awaits us. Green recovery is our best chance of achieving the goals set out in the Paris Agreement. We are dangling at the bottom of the list of green investments, according to research by the University of Oxford. The cabinet already spent 66 billion on the corona support. I wonder if the Prime Minister can tell us how many of them he thinks can be qualified as green and sustainable. Over the past year, this cabinet has supported Rücksichtslos fossil polluters such as Tata Steel and KLM. It transferred money to keep the meat manufacturers on their feet and gave a farewell gift to the fur breeders. Crucial sectors such as care and education have to deal with crumbs. Even the healthcare bonus became too expensive for this cabinet. As far as we're concerned, it's time for other choices. Stop supporting fossil polluters, invest in the green economy and start valued key sectors today. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Prime Minister if he is finally prepared to put sustainability requirements on the corona support. That is extremely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u120	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u121	I'd like a little bit back in your input, Mrs. Van Esch. Did I understand correctly that you are linking the Dutch livestock sector to the coronapandemic in this world? And if I didn't understand that correctly, perhaps you could explain again what you said there? 'Cause it was a little too fast for me, but that's what I understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u122	Okay. No. This current corona crisis cannot be linked to Dutch livestock farming, but my contribution is about the fact that we can create new pandemics with Dutch livestock farming. We see the ticking time bomb.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u123	Then I'd like to ask what you're basing that assumption on. Do you have any justification for that? Have any scientific articles been written about the possibility that Dutch livestock farming could cause a pandemic? 'Cause I don't have that information yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u124	I can send it to you. There are many of them, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u125	Can Mrs Van Esch quote one or two of these? 'Cause that's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u126	At least we can look at Marion Koopmans, who has published a lot about it. She's one of the OMT members. I can give you information, but I can't literally quote from a report that I don't have right now. That's a little complicated. I don't have them in front of me, those reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u127	We can do two things. You have a second term or you can find each other informally. That's up to you, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u128	I would like to quote from reports in the second term. I'm fine with doing that, but I'm gonna have to go get the reports. I'm very willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u129	I certainly have no doubt about that. I find it a little weird if you put such a big risk, such a big danger or such a big time bomb here and because the Dutch livestock industry is actually already responsible for it. It seems to me that you should be a little more careful with that if you're not ready for facts and figures right away. But I'd like to look into those investigations. Because I don't know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u130	The facts and figures are there, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u131	It is up to you to find each other in it, or in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u132	I can give it to Mrs Van der Plas. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u133	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union, who has her maiden speech today. I wish you every success, and I think it is good to suspend briefly after your speech for the congratulations. And as usual, there are no interruptions. Mrs Bikker, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Next weeks there are the national days that have an important place in our country, King's Day, Day of Death and Day of Liberation, and again we miss the usual gatherings that bind our country as a community. What a year is behind us and what a long journey we are going through this pandemic. We lack joint moments, as families, as associations, but also as a country, for a serious and at the same time good reason. For we still want to be and remain a society in which the vulnerable are protected as best we can, because how things are with the weakest shows what kind of society you have in mind. As a new MP of the Christian Union, that is my great commitment to my honorable office: contributing to a society where the vulnerable know themselves safely and at home, from very small to old, and whether you are healthy or know a lot of trouble and sorrow in your life. I hope to contribute here to a government that is a shield to the weak, to the vulnerable, and to a society in which we pay attention to each other, in which there is also love and space for brokenness and where people can seek the good. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime there is a third wave of corona contamination in the Netherlands and the government's assessment is that we are happy, I say now that we have reached the peak, which forms a plateau and that the decline will take place quickly. That gives room for the first step of the open plan. And everyone craves it, but at the same time there is also the concern about timing. Aren't we early? Aren't we gonna prolong the pandemic so unnecessary? Last week, my group, through Mr Segers, advocated sending on dates and not on dates. Then it was said that there had to be a decline in hospitalizations. This decline is visible in the models over some time, but the OMT indicated today by Mr Van Dissel that it would be happy to steer a real decrease of 10%. Can the Prime Minister explain why he is already considering acceleration, where he said earlier on such figures that there was no such space? Is this possible for that ic nurse who still has to work in an overcrowded department and who can't take a vacation but still runs double shifts? How does the Prime Minister weigh the consequences for critically planned care in hospitals? Mr. Chairman. The map of the Netherlands gives a diverse picture of infections and hospitalizations. In the north of the country things are better, but the south and especially South Holland-South and North Brabant really give a different picture. Sometimes in a single municipality a fireplace blows up again. If this picture persists, it is conceivable that some regions will take additional measures to control contamination and that, for example, mayors and the GGD will take the space to temporarily close the terraces, limit the rules in the retail trade or scale the visitation scheme: back to one. But also the delay or adjustment of field labs in regions where contamination and pressure on care is too high is conceivable. How does the Prime Minister see that? Is this what's on this? Is there any contact with the mayors in order to apply the more stringent policies in the region every now and then to prevent fires? Mr. Chairman. Last week there was a lot of talk about the field labs and the Stichting Open Nederland. The Minister has given an explanation, but one more question on behalf of my group. Is the government prepared to have this procedure reviewed as usual by the General Court for the legitimate, effective and effective use of the money and also of the structure chosen? I'd like an answer. As this debate progresses, thousands of vaccinations are being carried out. One of the lucky ones today is my own mother, possibly right now. You understand, this is not the only party in Bikker's house; we have more good news! Still a few questions, besides a compliment for the acceleration. The Minister has indicated that the GDPDs have the freedom to give remaining vaccines to vulnerable people. Room-wide has been said to allow people to choose to still be vaccinated with available vaccines that are not used in the vaccination strategy. Can the Minister promote that space as well as material? I am referring in particular to the legal liability of doctors. Is he prepared to deal with the insurance companies and the profession? What does he recommend to do people who would like to be eligible for such a leftover shot? Should they contact their general practitioner themselves, or can they be sure that their general practitioner will set this in motion himself? Mr. Chairman. In the nursing homes, we've been seeing relaxations for a few weeks. Can the Minister and the representatives see what is needed to help the houses move forward in order to work on this in a good way? Finally, Mr President, because I see that my time is running out, I repeat the call made by my group on many occasions: let us work towards a fair distribution of vaccines around the world by removing patents, expanding production capacity and making large-scale donations to third world countries, to developing countries. I ask the Prime Minister to join the call of world leaders who are already working on this. Because when dealing with vulnerable people says something about what kind of country we are, we also have outside, to other countries, to show that we do not close our eyes to the need worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u135	Thank you. I congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u136	If I may say so: you are an asset to the care; we have debated with each other. Good luck in this room. I will suspend the sitting for a brief moment so that you can receive the congratulations. We're all doing it coronaproof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u137	I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u138	Mr. Chairman. The precautionary principle, rather than the cure, does not really want to take shape in the corona policy. Last week, when the Prime Minister and Minister De Jonge said that the relaxations would be postponed until probably mid-May, suddenly anything is possible this week. Based on what exactly, that remains vague. We're taking a risk. In the words of the Minister, we are flying sharply at the wind. What the RIVM and the OMT strongly advise differently, apparently doesn't bother. We sit on a plateau, but rather that of Mount Everest than the plateau of the Vaalserberg. What has changed so much over the past week that we know for sure that all these relaxations together everyone wants to; there is no misunderstanding about this not one week too early? The balance between relaxing and avoiding risks is unclear. It is clear, however, that the basis of support is waning. That's because it's not being fought. Mr. Chairman. A crisis requires leadership. People understand very well that if the hospitals are full, not everything can yet be done. But then explain it and then show it to me. Get the social pressure off the kettle. About the 1 billion-dollar field labs that affect our behavior, for example because people think "the coast is safe again," the minister did not think. Has there been any thought about the influence of the relaxations on our behaviour? Will the cabinet pay extra attention to communicating the rules to prevent laisser-faire becoming the new motto? Mr. Chairman. Hoping that the cabinet would opt for prevention instead of virus circulation is perhaps naive. Those who have started reading the Wob documents are now sure that group immunity was always the goal. I would like to express my surprise at the fact that the Wob is needed to bring this conscious strategy to the table during this crisis. This has deliberately taken the risk that we use the maximum capacity of care and overload our care staff. The bonus we give them: they can work quietly during the May holiday. Can the Minister say again how many Ice Beds are actually still available in our country at the moment? Mr. Chairman. A virus, which does not care about borders, must be fought across borders and in cooperation. How is the European alignment going? Good European coordination is in the interests of our health and economic recovery. Now that the terraces and shopping streets are reopening, the question is whether there has been any consultation with our southern and eastern neighbours. Or hasn't there been? Are these relaxations coordinated to avoid unwanted travel movements? I'd like a response. There are concerns about new variants, especially the Brazilian and Indian variant. The world comes out of this crisis only if everyone has access to the vaccines. It is therefore worrying that all the prosperous countries have stopped the release of patents on vaccines and medicines at least for the duration of this crisis. What if new variants appear that the vaccines don't protect from? Can the Minister tell me about the Dutch efforts to share the patents and release production techniques, including in consultation with European partners and humanitarian organisations? Are we actually prepared in the Netherlands for large-scale vaccination later? Mr President, last but not least. Is the government aware that the length of the lockdown we are now in is due to the choice of virus circulation, with all the economic, social and social consequences? The differences are getting bigger and bigger and bigger, within the Netherlands and in the world. Minister, where is the human measure in this crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u139	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During my last contribution, I promised that I would start today with a compliment if the Minister showed decisiveness with relaxation. Honestly, that compliment is more appropriate this week than last week. Steps have been taken to give more air to Dutch and entrepreneurs. I suggest we'd have liked to see more. There have been announcements of relaxation with a blow to the arm, and I give this compliment with the same blow to the arm. The gradual opening-up of society is to be praised, but it takes place in a way that many people cannot rely on. In addition, my group is deeply concerned about a number of groups in society for which these relaxations are unnecessary or absent. Last week I noticed that older people are a forgotten group. We must not forget them. Although more and more residents of nursing homes have been vaccinated, the strict measures remain in place. Still a hug of a loved one is often forbidden, the restaurant remains closed and keep tight visitor arrangements grandchildren outside the door. Older people feel alone and struggle more and more with loneliness, while more than half of the elderly are already feeling lonely before the corona crisis. My group is very concerned about their well-being. How can the Minister contribute to ensuring that nursing homes take informed steps towards easing? Another group I'm worried about are the students. Although many of them are doing well in terms of education, we see a sharp increase in mental problems. That's not strange when you're sitting in the same dorm room day in, day out. When all activities take place on the same 10 m, structure and regularity often quickly go out the window. Can one day of education a week make a difference? We're afraid this won't make any sense. What possibilities does the Minister see for creating study spaces that are coronaproof? Leiden University is already working on this, as if it is only for a small part of the students. If the catering industry is allowed to divide the terrace by means of splash screens, why should universities not do so with study rooms? I'd like an answer from the Minister. In parallel to the opening of society, one billion euros are spent in field labs and test events. A hallucinant amount for trials until August; grab him 8 million euros a day. How can the cabinet allow this waste of money to continue for scientific purposes, when the outcome is at best a reasoned guess? How useful are all kinds of pilot events when society overtakes the results? What is the Minister's willingness to keep the 538 Orange Festival, usefulness and necessity of the field lab events under very critical scrutiny after the failure? The speed with which the access test policy has been set up, with the choice of an exclusive test provider that does not even have sufficient capacity, suggests the worst. My group is pleased that the government is taking steps towards a policy that is not only concerned with the medical situation, but also with the social and economic aspects. There are still many steps to be taken here. We would like to hear the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u141	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u142	Madam President. Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Bikker on her maiden speech. We heard a story that was very clear, broad-eyed, and also showed a warm heart for the vulnerable - in the best Christian Union traditions, I'll say. So compliments. Then to today's topic: the relaxation of some corona measures such as curfew, visitation arrangements and more space for shopkeepers. That's a relief for a lot of people. It's a modest step, but it's a significant step. Over the last few months, we have also regularly drawn attention to this broader social balance in all the measures that had to be taken, and we see that even now, even though that is exciting, we do understand that. And we appreciate that, too. We are also grateful, let me make that very clear, because we have previously also called for attention to be paid to increasing the maximum number of people at funerals. Not something you might think of first, but something that can mean a lot in people's lives, so that you can also be personally present. After more than six months the terraces open again, even though the conditions are still strict. My question is also: does this point of view of the fight against virus have any advantages in promoting outdoor stays, rather than more risky indoor meetings? How does the cabinet weigh this? We realize that other colleagues have already paid attention to the fact that it is exciting for hospitals and hospital staff. They run on their gums, the occupation is still very high, especially the capacity of intensive cares is a bottleneck. My question is, in this context, what the perspective is, including the deferred care that other colleagues have already called attention to. It is good that the measures are now being lightened, but it is also important to check whether there are groups in society that we do not yet have sufficient attention for. I refer first of all to the people who are treated at home, sometimes even with oxygen. It is important that hospitals can be relieved in this way, but do we also have a view of how many people this is about and is the cabinet also going to take this into account in the decision-making process? The same applies to people who have had long-term complaints about their corona contamination, the so-called long covid. Mrs Ploumen has already drawn attention to this. Will the Cabinet investigate how large this group is, and what is needed to provide them with the care they need? A very different group are the young people in secondary education. It's true, they can go to school partially now and that's very nice, but they're still sitting at home behind a screen part of the week. Teachers work very hard to shape distance education as best they can, but the fact remains that distance learning has a negative impact on educational performance and increases differences between pupils. It's starting to run out of students, it's just taking too long. And when they're in school, they're not just in learning mode. What we hear is that in terms of learning, it is best to be able to return to the old as soon as possible. What opportunities does the cabinet see for this, because here is the perspective? Finally. The favourable expectation is that, in the coming period, immunity in the population will increase more and more due to an infection or vaccination. A further relaxation of measures is therefore not only a concession to a society that is sighing under corona measures, but also a legal obligation. After all, yesterday's restrictions on freedom are never self-evident, but must be reviewed over and over again in the light of their necessity and proportionality. We will also be critical of the new laws we will discuss next week from this perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u143	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Let us start positively: Mrs Bikker, congratulations on your maiden speech. It was a pleasure listening to your speech. We hope for many nice contributions from your side here in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The corona policy of this cabinet is as much as a bad soap opera today. Each wave is a new season and every virus variant is a villain. The main players are involved in transparent intrigues, keep each other sweet with false promises and the viewer remains after hours looking behind with lost hope. And the wait is for the moment that the leading players here are written in box-K from the series and the end is announced. Hopefully that won't take long. The latest episode starts with a jubilee at the press conference, because as usual sources close to the cabinet leaked once again that relaxations were approaching. The curfew off, the restaurant can open again, shopping by appointment is released. We are not allowed to receive one but even two visitors. But can the flag really go out? No! German research carried out recently shows that the curfew had no effect on the contagion rates. So people haven't been locked up in their homes for months for nothing. The restaurant stays closed for at least a month. Restaurants outside may only open between 12.00 and 18.00 hours, and the permitted number of visitors is negligible. Especially the limited opening hours are quite strange. Is corona extra contagious after 6:00? What is the basis of these seemingly lucrative opening hours? Who's actually making this shit up? Mr. Chairman. What also stands out is the timing of the relaxations. What has led the cabinet to conclude that there is now suddenly a possibility of relaxation? Why couldn't this happen a week earlier? The corona figures can't be; they're still awfully high. The OMT, where Rutte and De Jonge have proven but all too eager to let their ears hang, can't be either. They have clearly shown that they do not support these relaxations at all. Mr. Chairman. At first, Rutte said, "no unnecessary risks; we really want to see that we are getting past the peak of that third wave." Now the explanation is "and it can change quickly with Mr Rutte; we now know this "in the models of RIVM we see that a decrease in the number of patients in hospitals is coming into view." Suddenly, the assumption that there will be a decline in the future is sufficient. What kind of yo-yo policy is this, I ask Mr Rutte, who is now insanely looking around him. What do Mr. Rutte and Mr. De Jonge know that we don't? My group would like to clarify this point. Mr. Chairman. Then a disturbing message from last week. It appears that since 2000 hard reports have warned that the GGDs are unprepared for outbreaks. Turntables were undersized, scaling up was not insured while the chances of a pandemic became ever more real. Already in 2015, it was announced that 21 out of 25 GGDs did not have sufficient doctors and/or nurses to control infection. In the meantime, each cry was heedlessly beaten in the wind by successive cabinets. Infectious diseases were passé, and the GDD: yes, he'll be fine. The result: GGDs were unreachable during the pandemic at crucial moments. Understaffing led to source and contact researchers having to do difficult investigations but not. People with a migration background were ignored because of a possible language disadvantage. Fill in "home," they were told when it came to the likely infection site. Chaos, chairman, complete chaos, complete incompetence! I demand a response from both regiments. Mr. Chairman. Finally: a bad soap opera sometimes takes a long time and has many twists. But one thing is certain: it never ends well for the villains. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u145	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a few days, turn around like a leaf on the tree. We are used to that in the Netherlands when it comes to us again, but our cabinet can do it. Last Thursday, people were still gloomy about the relaxations due to the rising figures. The OMT also stated that relaxation was still not possible. However, the cabinet gave Tuesday to take steps. There have been comments during the previous Corona debate and also today, but communication really needs to be better and more unambiguous, because it is now impossible for many to understand. However, 50PLUS is pleased with controlled relaxations such as the opening of the terraces, but especially with the extension of the visitation scheme for the elderly living at home, single and often vaccinated. But as long as there are still many people in the ICUs and in the hospitals, we have to stay very, very careful and alert. Mr. Chairman. Last time I asked the Minister of Health a few questions that I did not get an answer to. He does not return to that in his letter either. That's why I'm just gonna ask them again. The letter of 13 April devoted a great deal to the Welfare Youth Support Package. What about the welfare support package for the elderly? That's not wearing off. Older people certainly suffer more often from anxiety, nervousness, stress and lack of perspective due to home isolation. During the corona crisis, loneliness among 75-plussers increased by 8%, according to the figures of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau of September 2020. Can the Minister tell me about their mental health and what it does with their physical health? Why has the Welfare Youth Support Package been developed and not that of the elderly? It seems as if the minister considers the target group of older people less important than the group of young people. I would also like to know from the Minister why not all the residents of the nursing homes have still been vaccinated. Because this has not yet happened, nursing homes apply different standards. It makes people feel disadvantaged. After all, everyone wants to see their lover in the nursing home. Then I come to the vaccination strategy. More has been said about this today. There would be vaccination at an age, from old to young. The minister said that last Tuesday at his press conference. The opposite is true, however. When we look at the figures of the RIVM, we still see that not all 90- and 80-plussers have been vaccinated, but that the age cohorts are already vaccinated under them. In addition, we receive emails from people who are invited by both the GP and the GGD. How is that possible? That only leads to confusion. I would also like to draw attention to the group of cancer patients. They often run an increased risk of thrombosis and other blood clotting problems due to their chemotherapy or other heavy medications. Can the Minister investigate whether it is possible for these cancer patients aged 60 to 64 to be offered an RNA vaccine? And can the Minister let me know if cancer patients who are not formally included in the high medical risk group or other medical risk groups eligible for flu shots every year can still be included in this group? They often have a very reduced resistance due to their chemotherapy and heavy medication. Then I'm gonna come back to the huge amount of absenteeism in health care. Minister Van Ark would further investigate how the Extra Hands for Care platform currently has thousands of people available to work in healthcare, but they still cannot be deployed. I still don't have an answer to the question of exactly what it takes to put these people in. Furthermore, it has been mentioned earlier today, and I am very concerned about the situation in the health services. In the AD article with a reconstruction of the undressing of the health service for many years and the result, eleven solutions are also mentioned. I would like to know from the Minister whether these proposals by the former senior officials of the GGD have been taken seriously and whether he intends to do something with these proposals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u147	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u148	Thank you, chairman and best people in the Netherlands. The most frequently asked question to a new MP is: what are you wondering about? That question is actually as simple as the answer: I am mainly amazed about saying a and b doing. In the short time I've been here, I've seen plenty of examples of that. I want to limit myself to last week. Last Thursday, Minister De Jonge said at this place, for example, that we do not want a test society and that testing would be free. The government pays, and that's why 1.1 billion is being deployed. The Minister also said, on a question from Wybren van Haga, that perhaps, somewhere else, there would be a personal contribution in time. Kunnen are coming. What happens less than 12 hours later? There is a bill popping up on the mat stating that test certificates can be used for access and that this will cost hard-working citizens €7.50 as of 1 July. So if you want to have a cup of coffee on a terrace, that cup of coffee costs a tenner. If you are unlucky enough to live in Amsterdam, which is a beautiful city by the way, but where the prices rise from, you might pay €15 for a cup of coffee. So the test society will be there, and if it's up to the minister, testing isn't free at all. And so just two promises were broken within twelve hours. You are not going to tell me, or perhaps you will, but then I will not believe, that after the Corona debate on 15 April, the Minister came up with another plan in the middle of the night and wrote a bill out of the blue. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. Why didn't the Minister just tell the Chamber last Thursday that there was already a legislative change and that it would be sent to the Chamber? Why do smoke curtains always come up? Which legislative proposals and measures are still in the top of the agenda, because there might still be some? Can the Minister share it with us today? That's gonna save you a lot of trouble. Then the field lab events. I understood from the brief information that there is, that during the field labs mainly investigated the behavior of people and the effect on the number of infections in such a test event. What exactly is being investigated at the field lab events and what the exact research assignments are, Mr Van Dissel could not tell us this morning during the technical briefing. I find that strange, because it seems to me that RIVM benefits from the results of these investigations. We will be tabling a motion to ask the Minister to send the Chamber all the research questions and underlying plans of the field lab events. After all, if we do not know exactly what is being investigated and what research questions there are, we will not be able to check the results of the study there either. Finally, briefly the terrace policy. It's been asked for before, but I'm also curious about it. Why do you choose to close the terraces at 6:00 p.m.? I'd like an explanation for that. Does this also mean that drinks can no longer be sold in the supermarkets after 6 p.m.? Finally, I would like to call on the Minister and the Prime Minister to give us concrete answers to questions from the Chamber and to take all the questions seriously in future, even if the questions do not please us. Last week there were sometimes rather nonchalant answers and attempts to get rid of serious questions and jokes. I remind the Minister and the Prime Minister that they work for us, the House of Representatives. Comments like "I'm going to study and promote" testify in my sense of a certain kind of contempt. That's how I understood it. I don't even take that contempt from my kids, let alone anyone I've known for a month. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u149	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van Esch. I think Mrs. Van Esch has been looking up something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u150	I thought I'd make it easier by doing it now. Then we don't have to do it via an email exchange or by sending reports. I'll just give you a couple of virologists and pathologists, and you can look up the information yourself. The virologist Ron Fouchier says: The Netherlands is full of hosts who can transmit a virus. Pathologist Thijs Kuik indicates that the one sustainable solution is to prevent these problems, is simply less animals, also in the Netherlands. Marion Koopmans, whom I quoted earlier and who is also part of the OMT, says: our country scores high on risk factors; we have an average of 1,500 animals per km in the Netherlands, that risk is unacceptable, we make it far too easy for the virus in the Netherlands. I'm gonna call another one and then I'm gonna stop. Herwig Leirs of the University of Antwerp, a zoologist, says: the demand for meat should be reduced, reducing the pressure to destroy the forests; without that all pandemics unfortunately still come this way. I'll give them to you. They're on the lookout. I'd say take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u151	It's recorded in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u152	I hear a lot of statements from people, but I don't see any scientific evidence yet. That's what I asked for. I want a scientific justification that Dutch livestock farming is a ticking time bomb and that there will be another pandemic from the Dutch livestock industry. That's what I want scientific evidence for, and no statements from virologists and stuff like that. Anyone can call for anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u153	I suggest we exchange the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u154	I'd like to respond to it, because I have one question left. I find it really incredible that scientists in the Netherlands are being thrown away in this way as people who just make a statement. These are just scientists doing research on this kind of thing. You can just look that up. I really do not think that we can put away scientists in the Netherlands who are researching this in this way. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u155	I shall give the last word to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u156	Mrs. Van Esch, it's very simple. If these scientists or virologists have a scientific basis for your ruling, then there's nothing wrong, because then you can just give it to me. But a few statements made somewhere at Op1 or at Jinek, I don't call scientific evidence. So I'd like that scientific basis. And not a one-two between us. I want that scientific basis shared with the entire House of Representatives, because this is a public debate. You're making a lot of statements, so I think it's very clear. So I'm still waiting for the scientific basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u157	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons van Bij1 for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is desperate. The elderly, students, students, all the people at risk, they feel the tribulation of being locked up at home, day in, day out. Desperate. The care workers who fight every day until the triage is in sight. PTSD, failure, no perspective, no decent financial compensation. They have no choice but to keep going. The Netherlands is desperate. The flex workers are desperate, the entrepreneurs are desperate, the sex workers are desperate and the artists are desperate. It's gonna kill them all financially. The corona policy of this missionary cabinet makes almost everyone desperate, except the big shareholders and the group with great abilities. They were able to count on support and even richer during this pandemic. And that while on the other side of society people with the lowest incomes are twice more at risk of getting covid. And for those who still have a migration background, that risk is even higher. We're all desperate. This desperation is the result of the choices made by this cabinet. The cabinet made the choice for maximum spread of the virus, on the edge of what the ic's can still carry. To put it bluntly, they chose to determine who it is and who it is not worth to be protected. Last week many wanted to say: oh, that's just the opinion of that party BET1. But now recent Wob pieces prove that herd immunity has been consciously targeted. And that means: consciously heading for many dead, sick and countless people with long covid. Mr President, I am desperate. Because this cabinet does not seem to have any intention of changing the strategy. While we're at a peak in the number of new infections. Hospitals warn: change course, we're against code black. But Minister De Jonge prefers to give another round in the bar of big business and spends almost a billion euros on pseudoscientific hobby projects called "field lab experiments." That is why I would like to repeat my earlier appeal to the Chamber. It was the Chamber that gave the cabinet carte blanche last year to implement this strategy. And it was the Chamber that allowed the outgoing cabinet to continue this strategy after the fall of the cabinet. That is why it is now up to the Chamber to withdraw that mandate, to resume the supervisory function and to call a halt to the cabinet. Do we choose to allow this cabinet to proceed with this strategy of as many infections as possible? Do we choose this policy, which we will find shocking in a few years' time that it has ever been implemented? Do we choose EUR 925 million to disguise this strategy? In view of the words of most of my colleagues here today, particularly on the left, I have the cautious hope that we will be able to deal with the recklessness of this outgoing cabinet on this issue. However, I await with regret the corresponding actions. Mr. Chairman. This country is desperate. Desperately looking for leadership that stands for a society that works for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u159	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I suggest we suspend until 7:10 p.m. I saw the non-verbal reaction, so I added five minutes. Then the rulers are ready to answer the questions and then everyone has dinner if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u160	I see the VWS minister isn't here yet, but I understand the Prime Minister can manage without him. I have agreed with Members six interruptions and brief questions. First of all, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what blocks he has so that we can make an assessment. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first block is: why and what now? Against that background there are also the support packages in that block. The second block is strategy. Then I have a block of questions that have been asked to the Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u162	I think that's the shortest block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u163	Well, that's about scaling up the ic-capacity. I'm gonna try not to make it unnecessarily long, but I'm gonna do it thoroughly. First of all, the situation as it is now and which is indeed different than it was a week ago. What exactly changed? The answer to that question is not very much, but just enough. Last week, the Outbreak Management Team found that the situation was very fragile, with an increasing number of ic recordings, a high number of infectious people and a high number of hospitalisations. Because of the Outbreak Management Team, it was explicitly stated: enforce all measures. The height of the peak was still uncertain at that time. The difference is that the R-value is around 1 and indeed there are still a high number of infectious people, but the recording figures in hospitals and on the ic's............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The OMT says, "Don't take any steps now." But we are deviating from that. The OMT says you shouldn't take those steps until you see the drop. But the decline is expected. In the models of the RIVM, calculated for the OMT, it is stated that the decrease will also be visible around 1 May just before or after the decrease. What is the difference between what the cabinet does and what the OMT advises? We are assuming this forecasted decline and we are not waiting for it to happen. We assume the prognosis of the RIVM on which the OMT bases itself. So there's a difference between us and the OMT. This also has to do with the broader social weighting. We believe that we are now taking a responsible risk. This has to do with the fact that the OMT also states in the opinion that the timing of step 1 of the open plan, the height and timing of the peak no longer seems to influence. That is, of course, an important point. If you relax later, it will of course have an effect on the speed at which you will see the current wave drop, but here too the broader social weighting is reflected. You want the wave to drop, but it's not like the OMT expects the time of step 1 to be important in terms of the height and timing of the peak. Once again, in all openness, there is a deviation from the OMT opinion. The OMT says, "Wait until you actually see the drop." We say: we are now relying on the estimate. In short, that is the difference from last week. Then I would like to address the questions that have to do with what we are going to do, such as the terraces and all other things. But this is about the difference from last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u164	There are a number of questions from Mrs Ploumen, Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u165	I have said in my speech that I repeat that the Prime Minister, the Cabinet, is taking a risk. I have not yet heard why he consciously takes that risk, apart from the fact that I disagree. Then how did that trade-off go? What's weighed against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u166	As a cabinet, we must, of course, always weigh the epidemiological picture, which has developed in a slightly more favourable sense compared to a week ago, against the social impact of extending the measures. We think we can do step 1 in a modest form. I will come back to the terraces and the comments why only from 12.00 to 18.00 hours. I will explain this in a moment. In anticipation of this, it is, of course, also partly due to the fact that we are trying to carefully shape that first step. So we're really doing that step, but we're being careful in the sense that you're trying to minimize the risk. But we're deliberately taking an acceptable risk. That risk is similar to what we did at the end of February. At that time, it is actually the second time we have said this for the first time: we are prepared to take a responsible risk, we think. But it's a responsible risk, and we all really need to think about that. Mrs Ploumen has rightly drawn attention to this in her contribution. She makes another choice, a choice I respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u167	Then, of course, it is about what an acceptable risk is. I am not going to repeat all these figures again, but behind these figures are all people, people who are now on the ice, people who are going to end up on the ic and people who are going to suffer the consequences of such covid contamination for a long time. The care staff is overburdened and the regular care is now really being reduced at a rapid rate. My conclusion can only be that the Prime Minister believes that these are all acceptable risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u168	Mrs Ploumen rightly outlines the situation in hospitals. What you have to keep in mind is that that's exactly why the OMT said a week ago: don't do it. We have therefore said: we really cannot do it now. The difference is that the modeling shows that we're on that plateau. The difference is also that in the modelling of future developments we see that this decline is coming. Furthermore, it is also very important that the exact time of step 1 in terms of the peak will have no major impact and probably no impact at all. It will have an effect on the speed at which that wave is going down. Of course, you have to remember that this will start next Wednesday. It's Thursday now and it's on April 28th. Before people get to the hospital because of contamination, you will of course be a few weeks away. You'll be heading for mid-May. Of course, we have to take that into account. It is a risk, but we think it is an acceptable risk. But precisely because of the situation that Mrs Ploumen is describing, we did not do it last week. Because then we didn't know we were on the plateau. There was no sign of it at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u169	I would have chosen to prevent people from getting sick, whether they get sick tomorrow, Wednesday or in two weeks. This is where we separate our ways, because I do not think that is an acceptable risk. I would also point out to the Prime Minister that the OMT has strongly said: do not do this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u170	The phrase "here separate our roads" naturally received a heavy load from the debate on the scout gate, he spoke with some humour. I understand that Mrs Ploumen is happy to say that she means it in terms of content. I understand, of course, that they say "you're taking a risk," but I think it's an acceptable risk. I also think we should make that weighting here. It's not like we follow the OMT all the time. We follow his advice in great detail, especially in the case of rising charts or, as Van Dissel would say, in the case of a rising leg. Then it is wise to orientate yourself far and wide. We are now talking about plateau formation and the expectation that it will decrease. Then, of course, broader social considerations come into the picture. By the way, we have always seen them in the Chamber. I mean, what does it mean economically, psychologically and socially? What does it mean for young people and for the elderly? If there is a glimpse of improvement, then I think we can do a cautious step 1, including all related enforcement. I will talk about this in a moment, but it is indeed a consideration. I can't run away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u171	Finally. It is clear that the Labour Party is making a different assessment, because we want to follow the advice of the OMT in this regard too. And that advice is, don't do it. Perhaps it can be done in a few days' time and that would be good, because as far as I am concerned it would be better to do so today than tomorrow. But I conclude that my definition of "acceptable risk" is different from that of the Prime Minister. I would therefore like to call on the cabinet once again: prevent people from getting sick, prevent people from getting into hospital and prevent us from looking back at the terrace one week early. I'm saying that as much as I'd like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u172	Of course, it's nice that something of freedom is coming back. I said the same thing in my term. Fortunately, curfew goes away and you can visit someone with two people instead of with one person. But if you peel it all off, there won't be much left. Let me take the catering industry as an example. The Prime Minister knows that I have often included it here on behalf of the PVV Group for the catering industry. When I look at those terraces, I say to you, Mr. Rutte, how could you make it up, how could you make it up? Terraces may open between 12.00 and 18.00 hours, up to 50 guests per terrace, a health check for staff, leave contact details, mandatory seating, reservation required, up to two people at a table, 1.5 meters away, cough screens, there may be no entertainment. Madam President, in a morgue it is even more pleasant than on the terraces that the cabinet wants to open. I ask you again, because the terraces are outdoors. That's one of the requirements I still get, and we know that in the outdoors the chance of getting infected is almost zero. So why all the crazy? Entrepreneurs don't enjoy it, the people are behind the scenes, leaving half their records behind. That's not fun, that's misery. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u173	The virus, Mr. Wilders, I say through the chairman. It's not because I've thought of it, or Hugo de Jonge or anyone else: we're going to bully the catering industry by acting so weirdly on those terrace times. We're dealing with a life-threatening virus. We are at a stage in which we are currently having over 800 people in intensive care just now with Mrs Ploumen. Fortunately, we now see in the figures a first cautious assumption of a decrease in the number of people who end up on the ic, so that you will eventually also see that that plateau is actually perpetuating and gradually falling. We also have to wait and see if that really happens. I also discussed with Mrs Ploumen the calculated and, I think, acceptable risk. But that does mean that we have to be careful. Opening a terrace doesn't mean anyone goes from the Vondelpark to the terrace. That can be so, but also in the Vondelpark it will still be busy. It will lead to additional movements. People go to the bathroom, check in, there's still coffee-to-go in there right now. So you have to do that wisely. Of course, as soon as possible. We will of course see in step 2 what more you can do and also in step 3, but now we really have to do it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u174	Let the advantage of the terraces be that they are outside, mostly, and that there the risk of contamination is almost zero. We saw it in Wuhan: 1 on the, what was it, 7,000 people. RIVM in Ireland showed 0.1% chance of infection outside. Whatever source you choose, it's marginal, it's almost zero. That's one. Two is, what do you think happens at 6:00? I also asked your party colleague Hermans in her first term. What do you think people are gonna do at 6:00? Will they go to the library through the terrace? A number of people may do that, but others will go home to each other, especially after broadening the rules for home visits. Maybe to the park, which you're talking about, but they also go to people's homes and go there for a glass of wine or a beer, without any control, without looking at what's happening. So my point is, what you're proposing doesn't necessarily lead to fewer infections, but can even lead to more infections, because people really don't go home at 6:00. I know people have to follow the rules, but people stick to the rules when they go home with each other and have another drink there. And that's not what you want, because that leads to more than less infections, so I don't understand the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u175	Or opening terraces leads to more movements, which is my thesis. But Mr Wilders actually says: it's still completely to be seen and if they have to close then everyone will continue the terrace at home. I don't think so. It will, of course, lead to movement home, which is inevitable. But in the end you want to keep the total number of movements somewhat controlled. The terrace is outdoors. Wilders is right about that too: that is less risky than inside. That's why you start outside in the hospitality business and not inside. But people still have to go to the bathroom, they still have to pay off, maybe order something else. You try to do that outside as much as you can, but maybe someone's just walking by for coffee-to-go, too. You're running into each other. The splash screen is an important improvement that we didn't have in the previous round, so that's okay. I really think it would be wise to do this very carefully. I've heard the speeches: start a little earlier or go on a little longer. My point would be: let's do this carefully, just lunch and then the early drink on the terrace. If it's possible in step 2, we'd love to move on. But first let's see how those figures develop and whether that decline actually comes that we hope for and which we also see in the RIVM figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u176	One more time. The people who work in the catering industry are not happy about this either. Of course, they are happy that the terrace can open for another six hours, but they are really very upset, also Royal Horeca Netherlands and others, that the terraces have to be closed at six o'clock. Especially when the weather gets nice, people really don't go home at six o'clock. That might be the case if the closure was at 10:00, but really not at 6:00. Let's say after work, if you make it, at four or five o'clock, half past five, you're gonna sit on the terrace for a while. Then you don't go home after half an hour. You don't. Then you either sit in that park, especially when it's nice weather, or sitting at someone's house. That then leads, once again, to more rather than less infections. You're not going into that. I would ask you once again to respond to that argument. My second question is: is it negotiable for you? I am not the only one; there are other parties here in the Chamber who at least asked the question whether it could not be done at 8 p.m. or 9 p.m. Again, for me it doesn't have to be an end time at all, but couldn't it be a few hours later, so that you reduce the effect that people go home and sit down together or do something else, with a chance of more infections? Is it negotiable for you? You'd be happy to start with the catering industry. You'd make a lot of people happy. You'd make the hospitals happy because you have fewer infections. You have fewer infections, Mr. Rutte, because when what I say happens, people start drinking at home, you don't have one-and-a-half meter control. That can then lead... You have seen when closing the catering industry that the number of infections was first in the hospitality industry and then moved all the way to infections in people's homes. When the hospitality was closed, the largest infection harbor in the people's home became. That behavior, that it moved from the catering industry to the people at home, has already taken place. Is it negotiable for you to raise it to 8:00 or 9:00?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u177	I am not standing here as a kind of strict house-father who says: the catering industry wants more but it is not allowed, because I have thought that it is from 12.00 to 18.00 hours. It's not that at all. The point here is that I really disagree with Wilders that it will lead to fewer infections if you just open up the catering business further. It just isn't. As the catering industry is open for longer, there will be more movement from people to the catering industry. That makes sense. Not everyone sits there at noon and doesn't leave until 8:00, so that means that people come later in the day. They might have to use public transport. They run into each other. You're just more at risk of infection. The idea that everyone runs to the Albert Heijn, orders a crate of beer and then continues drinking in the park, is of course not real either. No, Mr. Wilders didn't say that, but I sometimes hear from other circles that people move to the park. I don't think that's real either. I would therefore like to take the view that we have already consistently taken this view: more opening time simply leads to more movement. Let's do this carefully. We already deviate from the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. Mr Wilders has also asked for attention to be paid to hospitals. That's what he's right to be worried about. Let's not take the risk of creating something we don't want, so let's do this with caution, with tight enforcement. Hopefully you'll be able to do more in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u178	Thank you. Mr Van Haga and then Mr Kuzu. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u179	The Prime Minister talks about "exciting" and "taking risks." I'm glad to hear that. Only, the last time the Prime Minister did something very exciting, we extended the curfew from 9:00 to 10:00. Of course, that wasn't very exciting, but okay. Now we are setting up all kinds of relaxations for the catering industry, especially for the terraces, with all the limitations that will eventually give us the morgue of Mr Wilders. But there are some illogical things in this. So you can now sit on a terrace with two people from different households. I'm a little surprised you're allowed to come in with two people where there's a greater risk of infection. So that's where you get to meet three households. Then you have three households inside compared to two households outside, where you have hardly any contagion risk. Can you explain to me the logic behind this decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u180	The rule that we now have, and which unfortunately remains for the time being, is that you say: limit yourself outside to twos, even if you go hiking, unless you have children under 13 from the same family. That's why. Again, it is not to be harassed, but because you have to try to limit the risks with each other as much as possible. So this connects you with the fact that even if Mr. Van Haga and I were to go for a walk, we could do it together, but we can't do it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u181	But that is not an answer to my question at all. If the two of us are going for a walk, fine; I'd love to do it sometime. But if the two of us are gonna sit on a terrace, we can't have a third. Then Mr. Hugo de Jonge may not sit down, but if the two of us meet at home, Mr. Hugo de Jonge may sit down, and that's inside. That makes no sense, because there are fewer infections outside. So again, can you explain to me the logic of this decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u182	That's because we say: outside you have to be careful, you run into each other, it can get too crowded, limit those numbers a little bit. If you're gonna expand, you're gonna start outside. A terrace, as Wilders rightly said, is of course less unsafe than inside, because there are just fewer infections. But then try to keep those numbers manageable. That may be that there may be more people from one address, even more adults living at the same address. But if you don't live at the same address, it's up to two adults and the kids that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u183	This is completely illogical. I still don't understand. I think we're bumping into each other just as hard outside as we are inside. Only, the big difference from outside is that we don't infect each other there. Anyway, as usual, there's no answer. I don't understand. I hope that a little more logic can be introduced in the next relaxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u184	Let's talk about the relaxations. In the letter they sent to the Chamber, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health state that these relaxations must be logical for the support base. I think these are justified questions from colleagues. I would like to comment on Mr Rutte's quote. Last week during the debate he literally said: no unnecessary risks, we really want to see that we get over the peak of that third wave. What changed compared to last week? Does that word "real" strike models?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u185	What you're seeing now is that the OMT actually finds out that in the modelling we're on that plateau. What you don't see in the numbers yet is that the decline is also wagering. So that's where we deviate from the Outbreak Management Team. There is, however, the modeling that this decline will also become visible. I believe that we are taking an acceptable risk there. But the fact that we're getting over that peak is starting to show up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u186	Isn't it about being able to explain it in the end? 'Cause I'm really wondering what happened compared to last week. Last week, the Prime Minister was very firm. This week he's talking about models and acceptable risks. I would like to go along with the Prime Minister's thinking about, for example, the terraces, why they can remain open until 6 p.m. and no longer. What's the logic of that? As you yourself have described in your letter, relaxations must be logical; they must be explained to people, so that they can be supported. Can you explain in a logical way why the terraces should be closed at 6:00 p.m. and not at 7:00 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u187	The difference from last week is that the OMT said that the height of the peak was still uncertain. In the meantime, it is noted that the R-value is around 1. That in itself is a good achievement for all of us. Also with the much more contagious British variant that is good news. There is still a high number of infectious people, but you can see from the recording figures that the plateau seems to have been reached. That's a difference from last week. In addition, you can now see in the modeling of the RIVM that is expected to use the decrease around 1 May. So these are really two important differences. Then we said: let us be careful and take special care on two points. The first is that I will come back to this in a little more detail, but I can also do it right now to say that there is a task here for entrepreneurs to ensure that the protocols and framework of agreements are actually applied. It concerns the domes, the Royal Horeca Netherlands and others, the inspections, the mayors, the police and the boas. There was intensive consultation with the Security Council last Monday. All the mayors there have said: we understand this, we are going to do this and we are going to take responsibility. We have emphasised the importance of this. That's one. The second is that, as far as the steps with the terraces are concerned, we have said: let us really be very careful. I understand that argument. If you take a time frame somewhere from 12.00 to 6 p.m., people will say: why not from 12.00 to 8 p.m. or from 10.00 to 4 p.m.? I get that. We have said: we do from noon to 6 p.m. Then you grab lunch and the early drink. I said the week before that the bitterball was canceled. The early bitterball is still possible on the terrace, I say that to all VVD-choosers. But that does limit the risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u188	Yet this week the Prime Minister uses a little more cautious words than he did last week. Last week it was: really not possible, no unnecessary risks. Now we seem to have reached a plateau in models, but we still have to see that, we have to be careful, et cetera, et cetera. Koninklijke Horeca Nederland (Royal Horeca Netherlands) The Prime Minister also talked about this, for example, about uncertainty in the way that reopening should take place, because we distinguish in the plan in five different types of hospitality. Does the Prime Minister find the roadmap as it is now presented explainable to catering entrepreneurs how this reopening would take place? Because Royal Horeca Netherlands itself does not understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u189	No, but I've never had a dome that said, "I'm completely satisfied." I totally get that, because they want more. I understand that, too, because the hospitality industry has been incredibly hard. Do you want to hear the answer or not, Mr. Kuzu? Shall I give you the answer or will you continue talking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u190	It's not about them getting it. It's not that they don't understand or that they don't want to. They want to understand. They don't get it. Of course they want to expand more, but they do not understand these extensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u191	That's not my perception. We have a step-by-step plan in which we say: if there is room, you are going to extend in steps. What we are doing now is saying in that first step: you start outside and not inside and you have to be careful. We think that from 12:00 to 18:00 you really have those terraces open for lunch and an early drink and for people who want to drink coffee and read a newspaper, but you still limit it somewhat. In step 2, if you can, you're going to expand that further. Furthermore, the step-by-step plan also shows when you can go back inside the catering industry, as the number of infections gives rise to it. I think that's all pretty clear. And if that's not clear enough, we're gonna talk about it again. I understand, of course, that no dome, in education, in health care, in the hospitality industry or anywhere else, with all the misery we are in right now and the enormous limitations in which our theatres, cinemas, restaurants and shops are located, is satisfied if we enlarge. They'll probably want more. I'd like that, too. We must, of course, try to take the risk now, but we must accept it. And so you're also trying to narrow it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u192	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld and then to Mr Dassen. Excuse me. I'm trying to be as honest as I can be. Mrs Westerveld and then Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The point that things are not going well with the mental well-being of a lot of people, including young people, we understand very well. I also said in my contribution that people crave perspective. That's not just about doing nice things, but of course it's about meeting each other again, and so on. We also wanted to stress earlier on the reopening of education and the removal of curfew. On this point, my predecessor, Mr Kröger, tabled a motion which actually said: if we then need to relax, give priority to the abolition of curfew and education. He made it. We see now that these things are being taken away, but that the cabinet wants to relax in many more places. My question is whether there has been any thought as to whether it would be better to introduce some sort of phaser instead of doing everything at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u194	I mean, that's what we do. What we have of course done before is primary education. Then you see in secondary education that on average the children go to school one and a half to two days a week. The other half of the week or the other week they zoom, depending on how the school organises it. It is too early to go on there at the moment, because that means a lot of extra movements. What we talked about in the Chamber at the time, I thought, was that you should do and-and-and-and-do. You have to see what can be done with the shops, what can be done with the catering and what can be done with the education. I thought there was also quite a consensus at the time that after the steps we took in primary and secondary education, higher education, colleges and universities would come first. There is a very big step in this for half a million students who go to college one day a week. That is, as Hugo de Jonge calls it, covered with tests, but nevertheless they go to university or college one day a week and that also brings with them a lot of movements of adults who are going to do so. Of course you also want to see when it is possible to do more for the group between 12 and 17, because that's what you're talking about, and then to do more in higher education. I think this is fair in some kind of en-en-approach. The primary schools are open, the secondary schools partly and now there is a big step in higher education and then you look again in the next steps what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u195	It is indeed a big step, because students can finally go back to college. Well, it's only one day a week. At the same time, shops are also being opened. That is what I was referring to with my phasing: should we not first see if education can be opened one day a week and hopefully even more and only then take the next step? Did you get a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u196	Yeah, in the debates here. We've talked about it on a regular basis. You have to look at it every time. What can you do in the economy? Entrepreneurs are having a hard time and people also think it is important to be able to enjoy a bit. At the same time, education for everyone in this Lower House, I think, and for the Cabinet is an absolute top priority. That's why we started with the primary schools, where we really took a risk, because that was at a time when we couldn't actually do it yet. We did, and I think we're right. For the secondary schools there was a lot of expansion. On the contrary, I would argue in favour of sticking to the one-and-one approach. That means we'll look again at next steps. We have agreed that on step 2 there is no further extension of secondary education. But we are going to ask for advice, parallel to step 2, as far as step 2 is concerned, what is needed to expand there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u197	The Prime Minister is talking about a calculated risk. If we've seen one thing, it's that this virus is absolutely not going to be sent. Now we see the infections in India getting really bad. It is believed to be due to the new Indian variant. I understand that it has also been established in Belgium. I wonder if this calculated risk has taken into account that it can sometimes save a completely different side when such a variant occurs here in the Netherlands. So what are the scenarios, also in relation to the basis for all the measures we have now? Was that taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u198	Of course, we watch the epidemiology constantly, based on the advice. Now there is no assumption that the Indian variant occurs on a large scale here or that it will happen very quickly, but you keep an eye on it. That is actually Mr Heerma's question in his term: what are you doing? He said if things go the right way, that's fine, then you can take faster steps. But he also rightly pointed to the question of how to keep your finger on the wrist if it doesn't work out as expected from the models or if, as you say, I'm just going to put a new variant like this here in the Netherlands. If that happens, we will have to consider it, and we will of course not hesitate, because public health is at the forefront of taking far-reaching measures. There's no other way. But right now, that's not the expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u199	Do I understand that there are no scenarios yet in case this happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u200	Of course, we have the road map. It shows what extra steps you need to take when epidemiology deteriorates. We are now taking steps back into that roadmap. Then you'd have to do more, and maybe a lot more. But at the moment that is absolutely not the assumption, because of course we are also dealing with a large part of the population that has now had corona and we are going to put the 5 millionth prick tomorrow. That is to say, the first shot. That puts us at the top of the big countries in Europe. There are four countries that are doing even better, but they are a lot smaller. That also means that this is a point that is going on here, and that the risk that we are taking now is also taking place against the background of the fact that so many people have had the first shot in the meantime. But of course, if developments occur, we will have the roadmap and we will act immediately. There's no doubt about that. But it's not like we're saying "set that variant, with that contagious or sister or something." In itself, we now have the scaling-up plans in place, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u201	I understand, by the way, that a large proportion of the people infected in Belgium, Indian students, were even vaccinated. That might be something the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u202	That's what they're all looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u203	...should be taken into account. The last question I have on this matter: has there been coordination with our neighbouring countries about relaxing the measures here in the Netherlands and what does that do with travel movements, for example from Belgium to the Netherlands, with the terraces and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u204	Yes. That question was asked. I'll come back to that a little later. I've got him right here in the pile. I will come back to that; I am going to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u205	My question to the Prime Minister is as follows. As far as I am concerned, he has outlined very well how there has been a change and a weighted approach and found that there is a plateau in the number of infections and probably also in the number of ic-records. At the same time, we hear signals from the country, from the hospitals and also from the acutely planned care like: things are not going well here, we still have to scale down in operating rooms, we still have to scale down in the number of appointments we have. How did the cabinet weigh that in the decision to anticipate something the OMT recommended in the relaxations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u206	Strictly speaking, that was also the reason not to broaden last week. The plateau wasn't there then. At that time there was also insufficient confidence that if you set step 1, regardless of the date, the peak would not increase, but the speed at which you can bend the wave. That's the difference from this week. That doesn't change the fact that you're still sitting here with the people who got infected two and a half weeks ago three weeks ago. They're still pouring in. So you can see that the effects on the total occupation are gradually on that plateau. I come later to talk about the questions asked to Tamara van Ark about the situation in hospitals, but it is of course all hands on deck there. That's where the snot really gets worked in front of the eyes, but in all expectations now it's not that at the moment you're taking this step 1, you're making big changes in that peak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u207	With regard to the ic-recordings, I can well imagine that from the figures we have been given. But the acutely planned concern is less reflected in our figures, because those are the appointments that are cancelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u208	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u209	I would ask the Prime Minister to outline a little more about how this has been weighed by the cabinet, especially in the regions where the colours are even darker than in the big picture for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u210	That's mostly what I just said, I guess. It was precisely because we saw that it was going further and that the plateau had not been reached that we found it completely irresponsible to take a step last week. At first we had ourselves there was also criticized last week with pencil placed in it 21 April. Anyway, I also understand that when you say "with pencil" people hear "April 21st" and so on. That's what the discussion was about last week. But I couldn't. It was really irresponsible. Now we say on the basis of the latest models: now that we are on that plateau and you also see the modeling of the drop, we dare to do it. In addition, we do deviate from the OMT, because that says: do it only when you actually see that drop. Then there is Mrs Bikker's question. It is now expected that this will not lead to a higher peak. What you will see, of course, is that by relaxing the wave slows down. That is true, and then, of course, the broader social weighting plays a role, because then you will also see what it means to society if you wait until that wave is completely gone. In that case, you'd be in this situation for weeks, maybe even months. In addition, we also include in the models that the OMT also does that we have put so many first pricks, and increasingly also second pricks, that the level of immunity is reflected in the figures; it can also be added that a very large number of people have had it. That is really a difference from January, because we did not have that at all. Yeah, there were people who had had it. That was a lower number of..... but there were no vaccines at all yet. So there's that trade-off every time. That's how we made it. It's not quite cut; I'm telling you that honestly. Many questions have been answered by me, thanks to the interruptions. Let me take a quick look at what's left at this point. I think I've had all the questions about the catering industry. We still had the libraries. Most libraries currently allow you to get books by picking them up. In addition, they are open to vulnerable people who receive specific support there. Of course, we have to make choices now. We are now looking very closely, even at the next step, when we can move on with the libraries, but it is not so that nothing can be done there now. So in step 1 there is no further extension for libraries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u211	I get that. You can pick up there, like you could pick up earlier at the store via click-and-collect. You could even go into the store by appointment. Now can the Prime Minister explain why it makes sense that next week you can walk into a store to snoop around and buy some things, but not walk into a library to snoop around and borrow something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u212	We have to make choices. Of course, we have said here that education is priority number one. The economy must also be enlarged. At the libraries everything can be done. I understand the question, but those are of course considerations. Eventually, it's trade-offs. In step 1 there is very limited space; there is really limited space. We have, of course, spoken before about terraces, shops and schools. All kinds of motions have been passed on this. We have also always said: let's find it in that balance. The libraries will certainly be at gunpoint again, but it's not like they're closed. You can pick it up and get that D66 has reached here before they're open to vulnerable people who get specific support there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u213	I hear the Prime Minister saying that all the questions about the terraces have been answered, but there are actually two questions I have left open. The first one. I have heard the Prime Minister say a lot about the end time, i.e. 6 p.m., 7 p.m. or 8 p.m., also in response to questions from Mr Wilders. I also explicitly asked about the beginning. What harm would it do to open up early in the day? I will add my second question right away. In step 2 of the open plan there is no perspective at all for the catering industry. Is it conceivable that, if it goes well in the coming weeks and if it turns out that the catering industry succeeds in opening the terraces in a safe manner under conditions, an extension of the opening hours will also be considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u214	Yes. The answer to that is yes. Actually, we'd have wanted to go until 8:00, but we think that's too risky. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this will come back at least in step 2. I'm gonna have to see if you can do the advance. I get that point: the piece of apple pie for midnight. But the extension to 8 p.m. is provided for in step 2, if possible, if it goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u215	The fact that this is included in step 2 is good news anyway. Still, in 10:00. On the question "why 6:00 and not later?" The argument is that the use of alcohol also plays a role; then we loosen up and then it is more difficult to apply the rules. Of course, that's not the case in the front. Hence my question again: what is the basis on which this 12 noon is now based and why shouldn't 10.00 hours be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u216	Quite frankly, because we're very excited about what we're doing. We are at a stage in which Mrs Ploumen's first interruption is taking an acceptable risk. But really, most of the abdominal pain is from the terraces. That's what we said. Quite frankly, we have the most abdominal pain. And that's why we said, let's take that step carefully. As the terrace is open for more hours, more people go on or off the terrace. No one sits there from 10.00 to 18.00 hours, which is rare; most come for a few hours, or less. And so you just have more hours of movement. So we tried to say, we do it from ten to two. We talked about 12 to 4. After a lot of discussion we finally said: do it from twelve to six, because then you take that full lunch with you and the early drink. Well, of course it's always cut. And I'll say, you know, in step 2, we want to look at that extension to 8 p.m. anyway, and then we'll try to better support it. Or maybe you can, so you say, "Do it from 10:00 to 8:00." And if it's really too risky, then we try to support it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u217	I understand what the Prime Minister says about the moves and choices and the risk... Well, that you want to keep that in check, I totally understand, and I totally share that. Maybe one last point. You say: we are looking towards step 2 at that extension at the back. My question would then be: take the opening hours at the front and at the back completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u218	What I promise is that in step 2 we would really like to take a follow-up step with the terraces. We were thinking in particular of six to eight. I'm gonna get this involved now, too. And we must then be able to justify what we propose, as best we can. And I also understand this wish. So let's just hope for a moment that that Heerma scenario, that it's not bad, comes true. And with that, I'll take the bridge to the next...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u219	It's going very smoothly. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u220	By the way, that Heerma scenario went both ways, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u221	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u222	It could be more negative but also more positive. First of all, Mrs Hermans. In fact, it may well be that an extension at the front involves fewer risks than an extension at the back, and that what the cabinet has already thought about cannot be what could be done after 10.00 in the morning. My question is about the relationship with the local government, the discussion that has actually been going on for a long time, of the cabinet that said 'we are not going to open the terraces; those big cities must continue' and the big cities that in line with many groups in this house said 'no, those terraces are going to help spread'. The Prime Minister reflected on this last week, and actually acknowledged that pointing back and forth does not help and that you need to get out of it, and has also indicated that tomorrow there will be a sitting with the municipalities. What is the government going to do tomorrow, in what way is it going to talk to the municipalities, so that this deadlock can be overcome, and indeed the big cities in Amsterdam, it is a major problem that is being helped to shape this regulation better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u223	I would believe that this is already partly happening now, thanks to the excellent safety meeting last Monday. So a week ago it didn't go well, that's right; then the mayors were very critical that we didn't. They said: open the terraces, because that gives us much more opportunities to spread, with the crowds in the parks. And we said: that leads to too many extra movements. Well, that's a stalemate. By the way, Ferd Grapperhaus, the Minister of JenV, and the mayors settled that in a good atmosphere. Last Monday, the atmosphere was excellent in the Security Council, because it was discussed at the time, and we will continue with that tomorrow in a smaller circle, Ferd Grapperhaus and I; and Hugo de Jonge may or may not be there, but at least Ferd and I think you should do five things. That is, one: the entrepreneurs and the protocols and the framework of agreements, because they must take their job. And they need to translate that into their business and the establishment, to ensure that people can comply with the measures, whereby they, the entrepreneurs, also have to act if they are not complied with in their field. And then the domes are very important, because of course they lobby at us, but also have a responsibility to their own companies and members, and they feel so. What we discussed in detail in the cabinet is the role of the inspections: the Inspection SZW, the Inspection of Education, the NVWA, the ILT; all four have an important role to play. That really is another discussion, which we have put at a much more central level. Then we talked about the importance of "society," and then you come to four and five "society" of mayors and police and boas. Of course, mayors have administrative and legal responsibility. With them is mainly laid down in the Security Council of Monday, and that's what they're picking up, the crowd management. 'Cause you've got two problems now. Problem one: risks. Risk one is: for those shops no longer make an appointment, but a maximum of one person per 25 m, and then people are waiting at the door. So how do you organize that? And two: the combination of shops and terraces. Then people move; how do you manage that? There is also a great deal of experience with this. But we have said, and the mayors are now taking that up: there is a great responsibility for you, but often also with the largest store in the area. If there is a large Albert Heijn or Jumbo or Aldi, then it has a special responsibility to manage that in that shopping area. And the mayors have also been said: make sure that, if it gets too crowded in the restaurants or at the shops, you also close the street on time. So that's what they're gonna do. And make sure you close a shop or a terrace earlier if they don't follow the rules. I think this didn't happen enough this summer. That has also been established jointly. You need to give more examples of places where things aren't going well. The police and the boas are there for primary enforcement, of course. And they are there to make sure that there is action in the event of a violation. That went well on Monday. We're going to deepen that tomorrow with a selection from the Security Council. We are talking about six or seven mayors/chairmen of security regions, and then we are going to talk about all these issues. But the atmosphere has cleared up enormously since last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u224	That was also quite necessary, so it is good to hear that a start has been made with that. The letter we received this week was in itself a relief. It did not consist of 90 but only 16 pages. But that has also been very briefly addressed. While this is a discussion point between government and municipalities, but also between the Chamber and the government, which has been going on for several months. In the hope that tomorrow's trend will be welcomed, my question is: can the next progress letter address in detail what was then agreed? Last week, I made a specific request to see whether it would be possible to use local authorities to see how, on the front, almost a sort of preventive approach, a distribution policy could be applied. In a large city like Amsterdam, where a huge amount of inner city green has disappeared, everyone seems to go to the Vondelpark. It would be good if you tried to spread at the front instead of just doing crowd management afterwards. So my question actually has two parts. Will the Prime Minister take this into consideration tomorrow and will he come back to it in detail in the next letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u225	At first, yes. And on the second, yes, too. But then I ask the people in the civil service to take note of that and make sure that we do so in the next letter. So far, it's been going well. Sure. And rightly so! Mr. Chairman. One point we haven't discussed yet is the question of what to do regionally. The tricky thing here is this. I'll tell Mrs Bikker this. Congratulations on the maiden speech, by the way. Beautifully done, beautiful story and I look forward to our debates. The problem with enforcement is as follows. We have now organised that the mayors with the police, the boas, the domes and the companies have a great responsibility to ensure that we manage the situation on a step-by-step basis. We have, of course, also gained experience in the summer of 2020, when we have provided scope for a regional approach. I must say, however, that we have come to a broad conclusion that this has ultimately led to a delay in the fight against the virus. That is not something we are merely stating, but what is also widely shared by the mayors and in the Chamber. This has ultimately led to the request of the presidents of the security regions to come up with sufficient national coordination. They said it's almost impossible for us to do this. Since 1 December, we have regulated measures covid-19 in such a way as to place primary responsibility on the municipalities, rather than on the presidents of the security regions. So they can also take all kinds of measures locally to close, for example, catering areas, close shopping streets and apply crowd management. I heard Mrs Bikker say that they might also decide to allow only one visitor at home or other things. I don't think that's wise right now. At this stage, neither a roadmap nor a roadmap for such regional differences is foreseen. I think we should do so much more about the axis of enforcement. But if you are going to take steps back, of course there will eventually be more room for regional tailor-made work. You can if you really bring it back in epidemiology. So what Mrs Bikker is saying is not false or incorrect, but I think what she suggested is not working at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u226	Not all proposals need to be introduced tomorrow. We now hope that the decline bets. That is a big difference from the situation the Prime Minister refers to, namely the moment when we hoped that a regional approach would help to put things out at the time and raise the figures nationwide. Now we see the decline at national level. My question concerns the situation in which the figures continue to fall, but here and there there is a fireplace. What good would it be if the region had the courage to use the powers that exist for the mayors and for the municipalities? How good it would be to speak through that well and not to walk around with trauma of autumn 2020 and just look at the Empire until there is another rural approach. It is precisely these fireplaces that should immediately be able to be put out of effect with local measures. I lived in a beautiful village on the Veluwe for years. I'm sure if the mayor had said "people, we're really not going to visit each other right now; we're going to have to bite for two weeks," we knew: this is serious. I would like it if it were not to come from The Hague, but to work with each other to strengthen local authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u227	If she puts it that way, I'm starting to get more excited, too. But then we also agree that it may not be wise at this stage. Mrs Bikker says that this could be done at a later stage, if we could get things under control again. If there are local fireplaces, you want to be able to stomp them all out. We have said before: if you are on about 1,200 infections, that number is now a little higher, because the GGD capacity is so extensive, and if you can do the full source and contact tests again, and it can fully stamp out the local area, then this can be done. I'm gonna go chew on it, too. I see the image of the mayor who does that; that can also work very powerfully. But that is quite different from the situation in September. I get it. Then I'll get to the support packages. There was one more question about sustainability requirements. Quite frankly, my answer to the Animal Party is: this whole corona support is so complex, there is on such a large scale and for so many companies, that we have had to set it up for job retention and to help entrepreneurs through the crisis as much as possible. It is simply not possible to impose additional requirements on entrepreneurs. The execution is so complex and it involves such large numbers. Of course, we have had this discussion before, but I have to repeat it here. We really need to achieve the sustainability objectives through other instruments, but not through the aid packages now, because then implementation will be very slow. That is my last response from the first block: the situation and the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u228	Look. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u229	The University of Oxford has carried out research into the various countries affected by the corona crisis in their economy. There are several countries that have indeed found opportunities to use this much-needed sustainability of the economy. France, Germany, Denmark and even Poland have done so. You say 'it's very complex', but we see neighbouring countries that have found opportunities for that. This study shows that we are one of the countries that has done almost nothing about this sustainability. It is so clearly stated that this is the opportunity. So if other countries can do it, why couldn't the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u230	They do much less, let's be real. Poland really does much less than the Netherlands. Of course, we had an incredibly well-run economy in the Netherlands when the misery began. We have the opportunity to put billions, many billions, into this, because we had built up a great apple for thirst. So we are talking about huge sums of money, which must be disposed of through the large implementation organisations, the municipal social services, the UWV, the RVO and others. It is really impossible to link sustainability objectives to that. We've had that discussion here ten times, so it's a bit of a repetition of moves. I'm really not okay. This whole implementation is incredibly stuck if you were to say: we are going to link sustainability objectives to that. I just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u231	I am going to have that discussion an eleventh time, perhaps a twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u232	That's what I was counting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u233	I'm sure you'd have thought so. Of course, we continue to argue in favour of this, because we say: we cannot wait to do so. We cannot say together here: "It is too complicated and too difficult. Oh, yeah, we're also having a climate crisis somewhere. However, it is now too difficult to see how we can set sustainability requirements for support." We can't afford that. We agreed to abide by the Paris Climate Agreement. In my view, we should now indicate what is different and what needs to be different. The Dutch overshoot day was on May 3rd last year. This year it is even expected on April 27, if we are right. This means that we have actually made up all our stocks before. We can't keep saying no, it's too complicated. That answer really cannot be any longer, especially when we see that other countries have taken steps. So I stand by it: this answer is really not enough for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u234	The execution has its limits. I think we're going to have the discussion about this more often in the Chamber and with the cabinet. What has gone wrong with a number of major problems that we have seen in the past is that we have not listened sufficiently to what the implementation can or cannot handle. That is absolutely the case: look at the recent interview with the chairman of the UWV in the newspaper. Also look at what happens at the municipal social services and at the Dutch Social Security Office. There are sometimes weeks' delays in the payment of funds to some organisations. I thought, among other things, there were delays in the TVL. We ask for the utmost of the execution and it is simply not possible. So we can ignore it as politics and say 'the moth', when the execution says it can't, and then say 'but it has to', but then we get another survey later, showing that things have gone terribly wrong in the execution. So let us learn from those kinds of signals, as well as from very recent major investigations carried out by the Chamber. I refer to the Bosman Committee, which has carried out research into the whole implementation practice. One of the conclusions I draw from this, listening to and reading what comes out of it, is that the implementation must be much more central. If at some point they say "the pain threshold has been reached," then we have to accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u235	We are going to sit on that performance very much, but I want to talk about the enormous need to change things. I have not yet heard enough about the need to change. Not only in our society, but internationally, the loud call sounds: this is the time to tackle and shape the Paris Climate Agreement in a good way. I don't see any of that happening in the Netherlands. That's the call there is. Then complexity is really not enough if we know what kind of crises we are already seeing and are still waiting for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u236	Then maybe you should make a cut. How do you keep companies and self-employed and also jobs alive in a major crisis? I think it is impossible to add these kinds of requirements. Then there is the question of reconstruction. How can issues related to nitrogen, which currently limits housing and road construction, climate questions, the implementation of the Climate Agreement and education play a role in strengthening the Dutch economy in the longer term? I think the debate on this should be conducted by this cabinet or by a new cabinet, depending on how long the formation takes. This will be part of the broader recovery issues. In the very narrow sense of recovery, namely how or not to go through the aid packages, what you do with the debt position and the equity position of companies, it will not be able to play a role. But with everything that gets away from it, you directly touch the major societal issues of nitrogen, climate and education. In that respect, I shall shake Mrs Van Esch's hand. Maybe we do not always agree on the exact route, but we do agree that these are the themes that you need to take at gunpoint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u237	Thank you. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to respond a little bit more succinctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u238	That's what I'm gonna do, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u240	I can tell I'm having fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u241	And we're only halfway there. Mrs Van Esch has another question, but she will come back to it later. We have every sympathy for that. I call Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u242	Before the Prime Minister moves on to the next block, I have a word on enforcement and regulation. I heard him mention who has what responsibility in it. My question was precisely how we ensure that municipalities and entrepreneurs, whether they are shopkeepers or catering entrepreneurs, consult each other with the involvement of the cabinet. After all, we all have a responsibility to comply with and enforce the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u243	Two layers, I think, but I don't know if it's enough. It's, I think, the beginning of an answer. One is that Bas van 't Wout and Ferd Grapperhaus, the Ministers of Economic Affairs and Justice and Security, are in close contact with both the shops and the catering sector. We are trying to involve them very closely in what we are doing. This does not always lead to cheers, this time at the shops a little more than at the catering industry. But there is an understanding of how complicated it is and that we need to take it one step at a time. The second layer is implementation in the municipalities and the security regions. That is the role of the mayors, the boas and the police, and there again the domes of companies. We must try to make the rules as clear as possible. Where there is a lot of criticism of the NCTV's communication, I do not think there is much criticism of how the NCTV ultimately puts the rules on paper so that everyone tries to understand them as well. That's what happens with icons and so on. I think that will work well, so that at least it will be made clear: up to 50, two adults, splash screens, 1.5 meters, so that all these things are clear. In the triangle of communication, local and national consultation with the domes, we need to find it. It is, of course, also a subject that will certainly be discussed tomorrow in the discussion with the selection of the Security Council. It's really important. If that goes well, you may not always understand the fact that the terrace has to be closed at 18.00 hours, but at least you have no irritation about what they really want. We can do that. Then a break number, short, a few communication points. Actually, it's just one, the European alignment. That's what Mr. Dassen asked for. We constantly try to do this well with Belgium and Germany. We keep in constant contact through different channels. I do that myself with my German and Belgian colleagues. Grapperhaus does so with the ministers in his field. If necessary, so does Hugo the Young. It is of course federal in Germany with the state governments. This also applies to Belgium, where, as we know, the state governments are even more powerful than in Germany. Every week there is a task force with officials from the Netherlands, Belgium, North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony and Rhineland-Palatinate. There, information is exchanged and measures are coordinated. Border effects are mapped. In all consultations within the Benelux, this is also done at the level of Foreign Affairs, VWS and the NCTV. There is also a joint contact with Benelux Germany, so that we can work together there too, and there is a weekly discussion about the corona crisis wide, in which North Rhine-Westphalia has also joined the honourary member of the Benelux, I might add. In addition, we also have contact with Germany via and with the Benelux. So that's what's done at all these levels. It is not that you jump at the same time, because the epidemiological situation in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany is very different. But you do try to map out all the border effects and not to surprise each other either. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I can go to the topic of strategy. From the very beginning, the strategy has been to control the virus to the maximum, with the aim of protecting the vulnerable and taking care of them. The documents referred to are from early 2020. They were used in the preparation of the strategy. I also said this in my speech on TV in March: maximum monitoring means that we are trying to level the peak in the number of infections and spread them over a longer period of time. Of course, the fact that people are getting and going through the disease plays a role in this, unfortunately. But much more important, of course, is vaccination, which should contribute to immunity. They're working on it from the start. In March 2020 alone, we could not have hoped that we would be so far away with those vaccines that they would be there after ten months. So group immunity is not an end in itself, it is an effect of the policy you make a choice. Are you gonna let the virus rage, with the result that a lot of people get sick, maybe die, and the hospitals can't handle it? Or, the other extreme, can you bring the virus all the way down to zero, like New Zealand did? Island states might be able to do that. We have always made the choice, like all other European countries, America and everyone else, that you come in an intermediate variant in which that virus inevitably goes around. The side effect of this is that immunity is being built up. That is not the purpose, but it is an inevitable side effect. The aim is to prevent the burden of care from becoming overburdened and to protect the people who are vulnerable as far as possible. That has always been the strategy from the beginning, and it is also just exactly copy-paste of what all the other European countries are doing. The one about the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u244	That's the end of your block of strategy? The first is for Mrs Marijnissen of the SP and then for Mrs Simons of BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u245	We have talked a great deal about it here in the Chamber, and we have had a lot of discussion about whether or not it is contained, namely, to crush the virus at the time it comes, to prevent a lot of sick and dead people, or to control or rage around it. I believe that the documents that have come through the Wob contain all the consequences. It may seem like a theoretical discussion, because it is about strategy and terms, but to put it quite clearly: this is just about the number of people who get sick, the number of people who die. Recently, research has shown that even low-income people, who are poor, die twice more often from corona than people on rich incomes. So this is really about a lot. On the basis of the documents presented by the Wob, my question to the Prime Minister is: how can it be read that building group immunity called 'cuddle immunity' in one of these documents is indeed a goal and that it should be translated into the communication of the Cabinet as'maximum control'? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that these are two completely different things? Can he explain how one would look after the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u246	Yes, if you have the Wob and you get all those pieces, then of course in the future you will see all these policy preparations. You will also receive all the underlying notes in the future. I have said at AZ once: why do we not agree that every official note goes straight to the Chamber? That is not cynical, that is what I mean sincerely, because it also offers total transparency in how policies are made. But in the end, political decisions are taken. What we have said here is: in the choice between raiding or eliminating as extreme raiding on the one hand with all the consequences for the number of people who die and for the care, and on the other hand eliminating what does not go in an open economy, we choose what is called 'controlled raging', what we have called'maximum control'. That is the strategy that all European countries follow. The aim is to protect care and prevent too high a risk from being taken with vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u247	We've had that discussion here a lot. Do you just want to steer on protecting the care and hospital capacity, or at as few infections as possible? 'Cause if someone gets sick and maybe dies, that's one too many. We've had that discussion here a lot. The cabinet has opted for "maximum control." But how is it possible that those documents show that group immunity was not, or has never been, a goal, also appointed by the Prime Minister from his own tower? This note shows that this was indeed formulated as a goal, but then translated as if it were a kind of frame for maximum checking. In itself that is a very bad thing, because that could mean that something has been sold as a maximum control while something else has been sent for, namely for herd immunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u248	No, the controlled raging... the second scenario that's in it... is up to check. There are objectives to this. The objectives we have chosen are to protect care and the vulnerable as much as possible. The fact that you're building immunity is not a goal, it's an effect. It happens: when people go through the disease, they become immune. At least that's what we were assuming, and it seems to be the case to some extent. Of course, the real immunity is built up through the vaccine. Fortunately, that goes much faster than we thought. I think this is what everybody does. It is no different from the strategy in Germany, Belgium, France, Denmark and Sweden. It's just the Western strategy. Except in New Zealand, an island state, where they did choose to eliminate. But there you can close the airports and the ports. At some point, no one got in there. In a country like this, you can really eliminate a virus. But in an open economy like in Europe, and certainly in the Netherlands, that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u249	Thank you. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u250	I would like to add one more sentence. I think Mrs Marijnissen thinks that we had some sort of devious goal of: we are going to let that virus rage around for a while, because then we will quickly build up immunity. It's not, but it's happening. That's inevitable if the virus can't be eliminated. But it's not a goal of your policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u251	I do not want to waste a costly question on it, because we have had so many discussions about it. But this will be one of the main questions in the parliamentary survey which will undoubtedly be forthcoming. The Prime Minister says that Mrs. Marijnissen might think the cabinet had some sort of plan. No, I don't think so. I ask a question because the documents show that the aim was indeed to build up immunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u252	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u253	Hence my question, because we have had this discussion in the Chamber so many times. We have never been able to explain how you want to contain it, but at the same time we want to control it and let the virus go around. That's where my question comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u254	No, I get that. This is going to happen more often in the coming years and I am very happy about that. The new approach since the report on the parliamentary inquiry into the child allowance affair is that we are going to share the policy preparatory documents with the Chamber. You saw the slide decks from the Catshuis last weekend, which showed that a number of ministers had advocated speeding up the opening of education. You're gonna see things like that a lot more often. But in the end, you make decisions based on all those pieces, and you take political responsibility for that. I also think that openness is a very good development. You'll see it's all weighed up, then a decision has been made. I think that is the added value of this year's debate on the child allowance affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u255	Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u256	I can't wait to hear it. I hear Mr Rutte say: no, group immunity was not our goal. And I hear Mr Rutte say: yes, group immunity was our goal. One of them can only be true. I'd like to hear which one that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u257	Well, I don't. It is an effect if the virus is not eliminated. Due to the open nature of our economy in Europe, you can achieve maximum control with the goal: can care be handled and how do you prevent unnecessary risks from being taken with people with vulnerable health? It is then inevitable that people will get the virus and that they will gradually, very slowly, build up immunity. That's not a purpose, but it's an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u258	However, I have just heard Mr Rutte confirm it to Mrs Marijnissen, who refers to the Wob documents in which the word 'kudde-immunity' is combined with the word 'target'. Now you say again: that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u259	That's a piece, but that's not the decision of the cabinet. We're going to do that more often, but if you get to see all the documents on which the cabinet based itself, you'll see all kinds of things very often. But at the end of the day, we decide and the strategy that we decided on at the time is the strategy you know, namely maximum control. That's another word for "controlled raging," not "razing" but "controlled raging." In other words, maximum control, so hospitals can handle it and vulnerable people aren't unnecessarily unprotected. This, of course, also has the effect that people get it and that immunity is built up. But it is not a policy objective! It is an effect of the policy, and that could help you in the long term, if there hadn't been a vaccine, to get rid of corona altogether. But you would have been at it for a very long time, maybe ten or fifteen years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u260	Let's talk about immunity. There's an accidental immunity when a lot of people get it. What do we know about that? What do we know about this immunity? I've had corona, but I don't know if I'm immune. How would I know? And what do you think of Mr Dassen's statement just now that we now have cases of people who have been vaccinated but have been infected very near, in Belgium? I'm actually curious to see how immunity is going in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u261	At first, I'm not an expert, but maybe Hugo de Jonge has those numbers ready. Hugo, do you know how many people we think they've had? 4 million, he says, is the last digit. So we suspect that 4 million people have had it. Furthermore, there are about 5 million people who have had a first shot. So you would have 9 million people who are immune by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u262	If I understand correctly, you'll be immune once you've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u263	We don't know that for sure, but yes... That seems to me to be a question for Van Dissel, Chairman. I'm not gonna risk it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u264	Because a sum was just made: so many people have had it and so many people have been vaccinated, so so many people are immune.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u265	You're so annoyed, Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u266	I'm sorry, you think I'm annoyed? You should see me when I'm annoyed. No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u267	Then I'm very curious what you're like. I'm just trying to answer your question nicely. What I know is that at the end of the week, about 5 million first shots were made. Of course, some people got a second shot, but 5 million first shots. In addition, we suspect...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u268	5 million pricks: 4 million first and 1 million second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u269	1 million second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u270	4 million first and 1 million second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u271	In addition, a number of people have, of course, been through the disease and they may have had a shot by now. We all don't know that exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u272	I just heard a calculation: so many people have had the disease, so many people have had a shot, so so many people are immune. What do we know about how to achieve that immunity without vaccination? Do you think that the controlled raging of the disease has led to the immunity you had in mind? If so, you also know a little bit more about immunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u273	Maybe it'll be useful if the VWS minister gets there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u274	Now it's really getting all mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u275	I will repeat the questions later. I have one last question, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u276	It's a little more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u277	That's gonna be a long answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u278	I have time because I don't have to be anywhere else. I heard Mr Rutte say: this is how many European countries do it. Is that a measure of how good the policy is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u279	I'm gonna try. We were confronted with the virus, last February, March. Then, of course, we had to consider how to handle such a pandemic as best we could, a pandemic that none of us had experienced before. You can see that it was actually said quite quickly in the western world: if a country is not completely closed off, you don't actually have the option of completely eliminating the virus, because there is constantly new supply of people from outside. That leaves two scenarios, and that is how I outlined it in my speech on television. You can make it go crazy. Then you build immunity very quickly or at least protection against the virus, because a lot of people have had it at some point. But of course this has enormous consequences for public health: people die and the care will no longer be able to cope. You will see that parallel and sometimes in consultation in the Western world has been said: you must at least ensure that hospitals are able to handle it. It should not become code black and you must ensure that you protect people with vulnerable health as much as possible. That's controlled raging/upper check. You do this with the aim of protecting care and ensuring that people with vulnerable health are not unnecessarily exposed to the virus. But you can't stop people from getting sick and dying. The goal is not to build her immunity, but it is an effect, because if people have had it, it naturally contributes to the wall of protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u280	This is gonna be your fifth question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u281	My question was: is it good policy because other Western countries are also implementing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u282	That is not why it is good policy, but it is, I think, no coincidence that it has happened in so many countries in the world. Not only in the West, but also in Asia and other countries with open economies. After all, you are trying to prevent the health care systems from flooding, code blacking, people from being put on a ventilator when necessary and care being completely closed to other serious diseases. And of course, you're trying to prevent people who are older or vulnerable from being unnecessarily exposed to the virus. It is not so much co-ordinated that it also happens in open economies from the WTO and from all kinds of international advice. That's the way a pandemic works. Unfortunately, you cannot completely protect the people in the Netherlands from it, because then you really should close the border and let no one in and then stamp it all out. But, yes, that also does not apply to highly developed economies, where of course you also have many introductions from people from outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u283	I'm still a little bit looking for the explanation that it wouldn't work at all for an open economy to send out as few infections as possible and to say: okay, I'm gonna go a lot harder, I'm gonna make sure there are no infections, and if there's an outbreak somewhere, I'm gonna get a lot harder on that. In the end, the choice that has been made has ensured that we have been in a rather firm lockdown since October, with all the economic, social and social consequences. I think that the Prime Minister is stepping over the fact a little too easily, of: we are an open economy, so it could not have been otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u284	That's macro. For the country as a whole, for the Western countries, elimination is not an option in the strategies three-stroke raging, controlled raging or eliminating. What Mr Dassen is quite right about, of course, and that also fits in with our strategy is that if the number of infections is still clear and full source and contact investigations can take place, then you can stamp out local fireplaces, similar to what Mrs Bikker just said about what might become possible at some point. That is also in our strategy, and that has often happened at times when local fireplaces came up. At the time the number of infections started to rise so that it was no longer possible to do full source and contact studies, you saw that the number became so high that you could no longer fully eliminate local outbreaks. That too can be seen throughout Europe. So if you're talking about eliminating strategy, that's a national strategy. Inside it, as Mr Dassen says, fits that you are starting out local outbreaks, but then the total number of infections must be manageable, then the system must be able to cope with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u285	Mr Dassen, fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u286	Do I understand correctly, Prime Minister, through the President, that there was actually too weak intervention in October or after that, that too little was done to make sure that we could reduce the virus, just to be able to kick out fireplaces again, so that you would actually be able to make room for relaxation faster, which means that we are now in a situation where we could probably have come out months ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u287	At the risk of referring to other countries: of course, the whole of Europe and, by the way, most of the world is faced with a second wave and now with a third wave, which was also so large that it was very soon impossible to stamp out local fireplaces and carry out full source and contact investigations. That is not because there has been too little or too late intervention. In September we discussed here with the previous House of Representatives what we still did regionally. In hindsight we were not so much late, but we would have liked to intervene harder, surely. But that's not the reason that the second wave finally rolled through. Because you can see throughout Europe, and indeed throughout the world, that the second wave has risen tremendously. You can also see that the third wave has risen enormously. What you'd like to do is, within the strategy of maximum control, to knock out your local fireplaces that occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u288	Thank you. I think it's your last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u289	I'll get to a few things. Hugo, while you're at it, why don't you take these two or me? I'm gonna get 'em. Mr De Jonge is about to go into testing and vaccination, so I am not going to say anything about that. But there was one question about the health bonus and my answer to that would be: and-and, it has to be both. You have to make sure that there is enough money so that you are able to shape the testing. At the same time, you need to make sure that we do everything we can to pay decent salaries and bonuses in healthcare. So it's not either-or; it's and-and. Furthermore, De Jonge discusses the added value of testing et cetera so extensively, but here is a link with the healthcare bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u290	And-and would be good news for the caregivers, because that would mean they just get the promised bonus of €500. But the prime minister probably means something completely different. Probably he means that he just wants to go through with his plan that the €500 health bonus will not be there at all for all caregivers and that the bonus will most likely go through the middle, while the healthcare providers' services will be doubled at the moment. Or does the Prime Minister mean by "and" that he will come back to last week after all and that he really thinks that our caregivers should just get what they are entitled to and what she was promised by this cabinet, namely a bonus of €500? 'Cause then we do and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u291	There were two scenarios for it last week. This has, of course, been the subject of a wide-ranging debate. There is the scenario in which you can limit the group and then give the full €500, and there is the scenario in which you say: everyone in care gets a bonus. Then you come up with the amounts that I think we've agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u292	We have not agreed on this at all, and the coalition has agreed on this. They ensure that caregivers do not receive the bonus of €500 they have been promised. I find it far too easy and a little faint that the Prime Minister says: yes, it is choosing, or part €500 or half of everyone. This is just making choices, isn't it? That is why the comparison is made with the EUR 1 billion for commercial testing. That money is also released by a outgoing cabinet, so the cabinet cannot hide behind that argument. That's just not an argument. The second argument is: yes, there would be insufficient money. Why? I would say 'use that billion for that bonus', but the cabinet does not choose that either. So that's not a good argument either. I would appreciate it if the Prime Minister would just be honest and say: we have promised the caregivers that bonus of €500, but it is a little too expensive, so they only get half of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u293	Then you should also succeed in ensuring that this €500 reaches the people in care who directly or indirectly have to do with the fight against corona. That seems to be very difficult in practice. That is why it has been said: if everyone should receive that bonus, and I think that this is also very justifiable, then you have to make choices from the amount that is reserved for it, I thought a little EUR 800 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u294	This is your sixth interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u295	Yeah, I'm sorry, but this is screaming for a reaction. This is such bullshit. What do you mean, that choice has to be made? You can also say: we are simply taking out the amount that is necessary for it. You promised yourself, didn't you? You yourself promised €500 to the caregivers. You can't go back halfway to that and say, "Yeah, gee, we counted again how expensive that's gonna be. Sorry, now we can't afford it. You know what? You'll get half"? That's just a choice, isn't it? At the same time, with your missionary status, you do choose to allocate EUR 1 billion for commercial testing. Well, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u296	We could have paid if we were indeed able to focus that bonus in care on those who are directly or indirectly dealing with corona, but in practice that proves very difficult. Eventually, it's also making choices. If you say, "Okay, if that doesn't work, everyone, or almost everyone, has access to that bonus in care," then the amount goes down a bit. That's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u297	I would have liked to put this question to your colleague, Mr Van Ark, but since she is not here and you answer the questions, I will ask him to you. Not so long ago we heard the news that a cluster outbreak was observed at a slaughterhouse in Apeldoorn with around 40 infections, and that these employees were forced to work this morning despite their positive test results. I wonder if the Prime Minister might have heard the news about this, because for us this is a shocking observation. This is something we have pointed out before. I see him shaking no, so I would like to ask whether we can then come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u298	I'll try. Sure, that's what we're gonna do. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have already been discussed about care capacity, but some questions have also been asked about the scaling up of intensivecare capacity. Perhaps for the sake of shortness: at the moment the capacity is 1,429 beds. That means there are another 171 beds available. A further scaling-up of capacity to 1,550 beds is under way. With the ic-up-plan of the Landelijk Netwerk Acute Zorg, an extension to 1,700 ic-beds has been made possible, but this has consequences for the scaling down of regular care. It's not new what I'm telling you, but it's in response to different questions. Of course, the fact that regular care needs to be scaled down also has consequences. This sometimes has very serious consequences for people who rely on an operation that may not be able to continue or be postponed. In this respect, a framework has been established by the Federation of Medical Specialists in order to be able to make the right considerations about which care can or cannot be postponed. Doctors make reasonable considerations here. Of course you prefer not to and the catch-up shouldn't take too long, especially in critically planned care. He'll have to be caught up in six weeks. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I can answer all the questions on this point, otherwise I run the risk of being stuck in Mr Wilders' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u299	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u300	Then the question was also how the cabinet weighs the effects on the critically planned care. That is actually the previous answer, namely the work done by the Federation of Medical Specialists and the careful consideration of doctors. At present 36% of hospitals do not provide all the critically planned care, e.g. cancer surgery or transplants. Those considerations are taken into account. The acute care to be provided within 24 hours can still be provided anywhere. Of course, this is very important, because this is partly based on the distribution. Then there was a question about home treatment. We know that out of all the people who got infected, about 98% don't have to go to the hospital. It is not, of course, that anyone who does not have to go to the hospital is not affected by COOVID-19 at all. On the contrary. People can be very seriously ill and also suffer from long-term effects. Of the 98% who do not enter the hospital, about 0.5% are currently recovering at home under the supervision of the hospital and the general practitioner. This involves about 600 to 700 patients, who are thus recovering at home, but under the supervision of the hospital. As a cabinet, we have an insight into this group and take it into account in the decision-making process. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u301	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u302	With all due respect, the Prime Minister is reading a text and calling it the Federation of Medical Specialists three times, but of course we are not there. This is perhaps, Mr. Prime Minister, in addition to all the suffering of the people who have corona, the greatest drama of the past year. It is the biggest tragedy of the past year that thousands, tens of thousands of people, have not received their regular care and that once again, after a year of corona, people with kidney transplants, people with open heart surgery, people with whom I know what terrible diseases you say yourself are no longer being helped in one in three hospitals, that only acute care can be provided there. Once again, I understand that you have to read a text once in a while, but there are a lot of people at home watching again, after a year, not getting their care, who may die, who are in pain, who are worried about their wife, about their husband, about their mother, about their father. I would like you not only to show a little more empathy for that, but also to come up with something of a solution rather than just a reference to the Federation of Medical Specialists. What could you tell these people about when they'll get their help again and why you haven't solved their problems in that year? You've had a year. The PVV and other groups have been here for over a year: do something about this scaled-down concern! Wouldn't have cut back on care. Go invest. Go train the people now, start with it like a hare. Spend money on that! Do something! And all you're saying is, yes, the Federation of Medical Specialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u303	I am glad that Mr Wilders is asking that question. I tried to give the Chamber as best I could the information that I thought was contained in the questions, but of course I very much agree with him that there is a whole world behind it. He is absolutely right that this misery and the fact that hospitals are so overburdened or heavily charged with corona have far-reaching consequences for people who need to be in hospital for other matters. We've talked about this before. Our care is perfectly capable of handling short peak loads. Our care is not decorated on long peak loads. We are facing a long peak load in this crisis. It's not like you can solve that problem with a magic wand. You can't just open a can of people who are able to jump into intensive care and when you do it, it usually has consequences in other places in hospitals. There'll be holes there. The structural solution of this requires more time. It's not a money problem. There has also been no cuts in healthcare, billions and billions more have been spent on healthcare in recent years. The Netherlands is one of the top three or four in the world, both in terms of the quality of our health care, and in terms of the amount of euros we put into it, and rightly so. After all, we consider this to be very important as a civilised country. But you can't solve this problem in the short term with a minor procedure. This requires a longer-term approach and we are working on it, partly on the basis of proposals from Geert Wilders on what to do with building up national healthcare reserves, how to ensure flexible ic capacity in hospitals. You don't want a mothballed hospital waiting for a pandemic. You want to be able to switch ic capacity quickly if you need to. People are working very hard on that. The tricky thing is that if you want to train people for this, but at the same time need everyone in the operation, it takes more time than you want. It is not possible to solve that problem in a few months, six months or nine months. That is simply impossible. It'll take more time. That is what all European health systems are struggling with, all of which are among the best in the world. But it takes time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u304	Mr. Rutte, there are people now who need open-heart surgery. There are people at home now who need a kidney transplant. There are people at home with tears in their eyes because they don't know if they've been helped in a month, who don't know if their wife is still alive or their husband. You can't take that off technically. That's human suffering in almost half the hospitals: over a third of hospitals. We've had that problem for a year. Yes, we are looking for a solution with care reserves for the future. I am pleased that there is broad support for this in the Chamber. But we are now in a situation for which your party, your cabinet, is responsible. Because you say 'we didn't cut back', but in the past we closed emergency posts. Hospitals are closed, even ICU units are closed. Hundreds of employees who worked in intensive care have been discharged. None of that was necessary. None of that was supposed to happen. If you had not done so or less, if you had invested more in it, we would now have had less of those problems. I'm not saying we didn't have them, but we'd have had less. The PVV and many other groups in this house have been saying to Minister Van Ark for a year and to you: start with that! You shouldn't have done it, you shouldn't have let those people drain, you shouldn't have shut down those ic-units, but start training people sooner, take care of that. A year ago! I understand this hasn't happened in three weeks, but you should have done something in a year. I ask you: what did you actually do in the last year when it comes to training people when it comes to investing in acute and intensive care? Give me an answer, and if you do not do it for me, do it for those who are sick at home, who are afraid, who fear for their lives and their health. Then tell those people at home what you've done. When can you promise they'll be taken care of? You'll just sit at home with a heart that doesn't work and needs to be transplanted. But you're not getting a transplant. That's terrible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u305	Yeah, that's terrible. Let's not try to go to the game with each other who hates it the most. I'm just as sorry as Geert Wilders and I'm just as sorry for everyone who's going through this. My honest answer is this, namely that this country, like the whole world, is faced with a pandemic, that our healthcare systems have been set up to cope with such major problems for a short time and not for a very long time. This is a pandemic that has been going on for over a year now. That is the honest answer the whole world is struggling with. It's not a financial problem. There has also been no cuts in health care at all. In recent years, it was of little use to leave large numbers of ic-beds empty with people who weren't needed for that. We have made sure that we have spent a lot of extra money on health care and have invested tremendously in the quality of care. Now we need to prepare ourselves for the fact that we're probably going to have to deal with these long peaks more often. Next, you see..................................................................................................................................................... Busy to nurse the people who need it. However, we are also in the process of doing the open heart operations, which are also serious kidney failure, and of doing the after-care, nursing, which makes it very difficult to free people and train new people on a large scale. That's because that whole concern is now working at a huge peak, so you can't release the training capacity on the scale you'd like. That is a plan which, unfortunately, cannot be realized. All ideas about flexible ic capacity, about national healthcare reserves are not easy to realise. That just takes more time, simply because you need everyone in the operation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u306	Of course, I don't blame the people in the care. They're doing their job. They're doing a great job. I only have a lot of respect for that. My problem isn't with them. My problem is with you. I read an interview with Mr Gommers in a weekly magazine about five or six years ago, I think. He said at the time: we have a problem, we have too few people on the ICUs, we have to invest more in it and that is not going in the right direction. That was five or six years ago. There was no pandemic at the time. You're not going into that. You didn't do that. You've been cutting back on that, especially those hospitals. Okay, you've increased healthcare spending, but not enough to deal with this problem. You didn't allocate enough money for it. I'll finish with one question. I'll do it again. I'm not pretending at all that I think it's worse than you, but I do want an answer on behalf of the people who are looking now and have a lot of diseases. That could be cancer, that could be an open heart, that could be a kidney disease. But that could also be a hernia or something that's causing people a lot of pain, pain and misery. Again, without pretending that I find it worse than you, I ask you the following for those people. They're the worst, not you and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u307	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u308	What is your message to the people who are now waiting for surgery, who are in pain, who fear for the life of a loved one or of themselves? I am not talking about technology for the future, but about the coming weeks and months. What's your message to those people about when they get their care back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u309	My honest answer to those people is that we work day and night; not Wilders and I, but the people in care. Those are the people who are working every day to control this pandemic, the biggest attack on our collective public health since the Second World War. This is crucial in order to free up the space for those who are in such a difficult situation, so that they can again count on normal deadlines for necessary interventions. The second is that we are doing everything we can to ensure for the longer term that, if this happens more often, we are at risk of being able to organize things over a longer period without having to scale down. That's the honest answer. I cannot pretend here, and neither can Mr Wilders, that I can guarantee that in so many weeks or months it will be all right for anyone who now has to postpone surgery. After all, we do not know exactly what the course will be. We're doing everything we can. There's no doubt about that. It's not a financial issue either. For the longer term, we also want to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u310	Last question, Mr President. I'm not talking about the longer term. I'm talking about now. I understand you can't solve everything now, even though you should have done better in the past. But I'm asking for the last time on behalf of all these people. Our mailboxes are full of them, especially in the last few days and weeks in which regular care was scaled down. As you said yourself, a third of the care is no longer provided, except for emergency care. That includes heart surgery and all people's terrible problems. When can the people who are watching television and now need care expect their care? I understand you can't say for everyone: Thursday and Friday next week. But I do think that as Prime Minister of this country you are obliged to tell those people more than you are going to solve something in the future with a care reserve. So when can these people expect their care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u311	We do two things. We'll do what I said for the longer term, of course. For the shorter term, we want to control the pandemic, so that we can catch up as soon as possible afterwards. But there's a lot of catching up to do. I can't give any guarantees about when that happens. The medical profession will, of course, always ensure that the people with the greatest urgency go first. That's obvious. But I can't give a guarantee here by what date. That also depends on how the pandemic eventually develops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u312	At the last, how the pandemic develops, we have quite a grip. We can take measures to reduce the number of infections, reduce the number of people in hospital and reduce the number of people in intensive care. But that's not what this cabinet chooses. While we are sitting here, we are getting reports from even more hospitals that have to scale down their regular care, which Mr Wilders is talking about. Operations are canceled. Only emergency operations and emergency treatments can be carried out. The Prime Minister has a choice to give more room for regular care by now taking measures to reduce contamination. Follow the advice of the OMT I would ask you to do so again in order to prevent the ic's and the beds from being filled up in hospitals for up to months, while the care staff can hardly handle it. Those people are also sad because they can't treat their patients properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u313	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u314	So again my question: why wasn't the OMT's advice followed, so that we all have as few infections as possible as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u315	Well, we're following OMT's advice. That's what it says with us. Only, they say: we're not sure if that drop bets. And we base ourselves on the estimates that show that this decline is taking place. We are also dealing with a broader social weighting. The OMT also says that the height and timing of the peak no longer seem to be affected by the question when step 1. In the hospitals we are indeed working very hard and people are under enormous pressure. These are the effects of infections that occurred two or three weeks ago, but these are not the effects caused by the enlargements on 28 April. All models show that, but we also actually realize that we've reached that plateau pretty much now. Of course, we still want to see the reduction in the number of recordings. Because we know that the height and timing of the peak are no longer affected by the exact moment you take step 1, I think it is a responsible risk to do so. That goes back to the beginning of the discussion that Mrs Ploumen and I had. I respect what she says. In that sense, it's also dimes on his side and I also understand that you can reason that way. I totally get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u316	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Pouw-Verweij and then by Mr Van der Staaij. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u317	I would like to go into the point that Mr Wilders is making here for a moment. We are now getting a bit of a picture of a major medical crisis happening to us and that medical care and, in particular, the ic capacity have not been set up to do so. That doesn't make any sense. Everyone in a hospital who has worked anywhere near an ICU knows how high the workload is there and knows the stories about the withdrawal stops and the patients who have to be driven to another hospitals in the middle of the night with all the horns and bells. It's a problem that's been around for a long time. More than six months ago, this was already discussed in the "lessons learned" sessions on corona, organised by the Ministry. So you know this, too. Presenting this as if it were a new problem, I don't think it's fair. You cannot give the answer to Mr Wilders' question about what is being done in the next few weeks. Okay, clear. But in the past year it has also become clear that this is a long-term problem and will remain a chronic problem, even in the future. What investment is being made to get the specialist nurses in particular where they need to go? Are they looking at the training courses? What is the long-term plan that you now have for this and that you have had in the past six months and last year? The answer to that is not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u318	I really do not understand the first half of Mrs Pauw-Verweij's accusation. Does she mean that this problem has been on the ic's for years? Or does she mean to say that the problem was also there in March/April last year? Of course she's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u319	That the problem has been there for years. Five years ago, articles were written that said that the ic's were filled with flu patients. Four years ago, I believe, an article was published in which a professor of intensive care...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u320	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u321	I'd like to finish it. In it, a professor of intensive care said that the Netherlands wants to be in the first place for a dime and that, if there was a major disaster, an aircraft disaster, an attack, call it, we would have a very big problem with emergency care, acute care and specialized care. Those problems have been there for years. This isn't new.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u322	That's for sure. In health care there are a lot of bottlenecks and a lot of problems. However, I think there was always broad political agreement that it is not useful to have a lot of unused ic capacity if you know how much you need on average and the fact that it is important for the coming period to set up the ic capacity with flexible scaling-up options. Then there are people who may be employed in other professions at that time, but can be re-employed very quickly. Well, those plans are all there. But we do have to deal with the fact that it is not possible for a pandemic to concern us all, especially the people in care at such a level, to free up the capacity and to train people on such a scale, and that is necessary. Because anyone who should be helping with the training is just running the day-to-day operations. That is the fact that we are now faced with. All these plans are there, and we're gonna do it. Wilders asks: couldn't you have done more there? I don't think that's possible right now. If he says "I want to know when Mrs Janssen or Mr X can count on that very important operation that unfortunately had to be postponed," I understand that question. I can't guarantee it, but of course it's being worked with man and power to get that pandemic under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u323	Then I'd like to give you a brief response. You say that it is chosen to paraphrase for a moment to ensure that people are just at work, that we do not have nurses who are doing nothing and that the occupation is kept low. But that's a choice we make. The Netherlands is also relatively alone in this. I compare it with Germany: that is where the choice is made to have the occupation always higher. Indeed, sometimes there are people who are empty-handed, but they are a lot less likely to deal with the problem we are dealing with now. I do think that responsibility should be taken for that. That's not a question, but it's a point I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u324	That, anyway. I do think there are major differences between the health systems. In the Netherlands, regular hospital beds are often of a different nature than those in Germany. There you either often have beds with a bedside table or very specialised beds. In the Netherlands we have a much finer system, from the level at which care is delivered in the hospital to the heaviest care in intensive care. But I agree with Mrs Pouw-Verweij that part of the lesson you have to learn from this whole pandemic is not only "how do you structurally deal with the question of whether care is able to scale up when needed" but also "what is the acceptable, acceptable basic capacity?'. She's just right about that. That must, of course, be part of the lessons you draw from this crisis. I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u325	On the same point: we are constantly getting neat state of mind about the care that needs to be delivered within six weeks to prevent health damage. Critical planning care is called that. We also get such states from the Dutch Healthcare Authority, which reported again this afternoon: the number of hospitals that can still fully deliver the critical care has fallen again, from 69% earlier to 63% now. My question is: what exactly is the follow-up to the ringing of those alarm bells?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u326	What you see, indeed, is that the critically planned concern fell from 69% to 63% completely between April 12 and April 20. That's the last number. That is, of course, also what we look at when we make our decisions on the measures. That is why you do not want to take measures that are likely to result in additional pressure on ic capacity or on the other capacity in hospitals. The decision we made this week was therefore not only the question of whether that plateau was reached, but also the question of whether all the calculations show that the assumption may be that it is going to fall? But that's where we're taking a risk. Let's just be real: it's not all without risk. I think it's acceptable, because not for nothing does the OMT say: wouldn't you want to know for sure? We say in a broader consideration: we take that calculated risk. As it continues to descend, you will see that gradually the space is created again in the care to pick up other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u327	I can totally follow that story. This is what I'm talking about. Each time we get those reports and we see that the number of hospitals that are able to deliver that care is falling further. So what else can be done to support those hospitals in that? Does this analysis get a concrete follow-up, in the sense of: help, we won't let this happen? Apart from decisions on the measures. I would like to see something done very concretely and directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u328	If we could remove the problem because there are still reserves somewhere for people who are trained, we would of course do so. But there aren't any. The whole care of course works on top capacity. This applies not only to the Netherlands, however. At the moment you have exactly the same discussion in Germany, where 5,000 people are currently on the ice. It also applies to France, where in the meantime I thought 6,000 people are on the ice. Here's eight hundred and so many. But those countries are also bigger. This is the issue in all these countries at the moment. It's not like there's another possibility somewhere to put a group of people in. It will, but it will be at the expense of other care. That's what you see in those states. Eventually, that's what happens. That's why you want to do everything you can to get that pandemic under control as soon as possible and to roll that wave back. That's the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u329	I understand. And yet I find that unsatisfactory. If you ask for those neat reports every time and you see those things go down, you'd also like to see action. We reheat further back and we do not see that it recovers immediately. To what extent can you involve the first line in other ways, so that an additional effort is made to prevent this health damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u330	That's what happens in hospitals, of course. That happens massively. One of the things that is completely new in this pandemic is that we move patients on a very large scale. That didn't happen before. In this way we try to spread as much as possible throughout the Netherlands. That's what you do when there's less pressure in the north and a lot of pressure in the south, like in South Holland-South and North Brabant. There's a lot of pressure in relation to the north of the country. That way, of course, you also try to divide the pressure. That's what happened to the National Coordination Centre Patient Distribution, which was set up at the end of March. That's an example of how you do that. In the hospitals themselves, of course, it is also examined from all sides how to ensure that care is shifted. That is all planned, and that is where the expertise lies. But it always keeps shifting in the end. That means there are holes somewhere else. That is inevitable and it always happens. This is a shift between care that is less intensive to care that is much more intensive. That happens all the time and that's exactly the problem: from the rest of the planned care to the critical planned care and then to the semi-acute care. That's how you're constantly trying to spread the pressure in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u331	I bet you do. I also know that incredibly much work is being done to see if these problems can be solved. And yet every time it asks for innovation and you have to see if you have taken advantage of all the possibilities. In the next letter, could I ask you to come back to the question of what additional actions are still possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u332	That's what we're gonna do. We're gonna go back and see if there's any rocks left. Mr President, thank you. I've taken a little more time and I'm gonna take some more time, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u333	Yes, Mr Wilders' final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of February, a motion of mine was passed that asked for a plan for regular care, which I was just talking about. The subject is more topical than ever, because of the people who are sick and do not get help. The Minister for Medical Care, who is not here today, then spent a letter to the Chamber of two A4s, but there is no plan yet. Perhaps you could come back to that in the second term. We will not get rid of it tomorrow, certainly not of catching up with care, as the Prime Minister himself says. People are very worried. I want an image without the illusion that you'll solve it tomorrow. I want something to come up with that people have some clue as to what care can be delivered when and where. That is what the Minister promised on the basis of my motion, but we have not yet worked it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u335	I will come back to one other point in the second term. I hope it's official, because I've lost it for a while. I will come back to this point in the second term. Affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u336	It was Mrs Van Esch's question about the slaughterhouses you were going to come back to. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment, so we can have a little change. I believe that the time limit for the VWS Minister can be shorter, because everyone has already used a lot of interruptions. In that sense, I would like to say that the floor is up to Mr De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u337	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. And maybe the minister can tell us which cubes he has.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u338	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a number of questions have been asked about vaccination. About access tests. And on several subjects, which I take together in a third block. That's how I wanted to do it, Mr. Chairman. I will also refer a number of times to the debate we had last week and also to the letters that have already been sent. That is also an encouragement for myself; then you can see it in that way. First of all about vaccination, and then I will start with the questions that have been asked about the AstraZeneca vaccines: could you also use them for under 60 years, through the general practitioners? That was a question from Mrs Ploumen, but Mr Paternotte also referred to it. I just want to get back to the why of AstraZeneca. I explained that last week, of course, but now Janssen comes next. And, of course, you can see a big difference in the extent to which this very serious.................................................................................................................................................................................................. The numbers at AstraZeneca, Europewide: about 1 in 100,000. With regard to the cases reported in the Netherlands, you could say that this must be even higher, because the number of cases in the Netherlands is 8 out of 400,000 vaccines, of which about half are below 60. Well, then you'd say, "Well, maybe you'd be up to 1 in 25,000." And that's incomparable, because those same eight cases were found at 7 million shots at Janssen in the United States. It is incomparable to the situation at Janssen - now, at the moment, so I say, because it may well be that new data will be added, new reports, where the numbers will be a little higher again. But for now: from the United States 1 in million, in Europe it is said 1 in 100,000, but if you look below 60 and you look in the Netherlands, that number is even higher. In any case, this has been a reason for the Health Council to give us a very clear advice, which the government has also taken over, namely: AstraZeneca bet above 60 and bet below 60 alternatives. That was also the task when we were given that advice: not only to implement it, but also to provide those groups under 60 who were expecting a rapid vaccination, because they were just next, with an alternative. And that's exactly what we've done. That's, I think, the most important thing. The high-risk groups which have already been offered an alternative, or are invited to this alternative, have all been offered. In addition, the groups which are also vulnerable and had to take their turn in the order, even managed to do so a little faster, partly by intercession of your Chamber. We will also offer an alternative vaccine for this. And that means that the general practitioners sting the target groups 60 years up to 64 years with AstraZeneca, and the non-mobile elderly living at home with AstraZeneca. And if they have more vaccines than they prick into this group, they're supposed to pierce: 65-year-olds, 66-year-olds. All Astra vaccines for the coming period, we will all need to prick our elders. And we will certainly be working on that until deep in May. I've already let you know that was Paternotte's motion last time I worked out some scenarios. If we run out of people who need AstraZeneca, but we still have vaccines that will really be a situation at the end of or in the second half of May, I expect what will we do with them? That's why I come up with scenarios. What about the doctors? Look, in a single case... Suppose someone was already invited to AstraZeneca and really can't wait for that alternative. That is quite special, because that alternative is either provided or given after next week or the following week. And if this is done in consultation between the general practitioner and the patient, it is indeed a derogation from the directive, but in some cases I am not going to send out the inspection; that is not how it works. But in general, I want general practitioners to comply with the guidelines. That indeed has a number of legal backgrounds, but certainly also a strategic background, namely that we want AstraZeneca to be used for people over 60 years of age, and that we want alternatives to be used under 60 years of age. That is the way the directive is structured, and I also want everyone to abide by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u339	The Minister said that the situation where we served 60-plussers and were about vaccines will arise in May. But we see that a GP, about whom an article was in the newspaper this morning, had a catch-up tonight that didn't show up enough people. As a result, 55 AstraZeneca vaccines ended up in the trash. That's an image that's going around right now, and I think it's a very painful picture right now in this pandemic. Because there are a lot of people who would have liked those vaccines very much. The Minister has rightly mentioned an example. There are a lot of vulnerable people, whether it's a 39-year-old cancer patient, the example of which was in the newspaper, or someone who's overweight but not morbid obesity in the 50s who benefit from that vaccine. But they'll be in the trash. Then my question is: if such a doctor has opened a bottle at the end of the day, has a few vaccines left over and does not have a 60-plusser ready but has someone who would like that vaccine and from whom, in consultation with the doctor, it is established that it is also wise to give it. Because that is the concern that exists with many general practitioners and that is why they do not do so at all. And that is also a reason why vaccines can disappear in the garbage can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u340	They're actually different questions. I'll be right back to the question of liability. But my first question would be: how can you actually have 50 vaccines left at the end of the day? Then you've really pulled too many, I guess. Right? 'Cause you're getting about ten or eleven out of a jar. So you should always have less than ten or eleven left. That would be my thought. Secondly, I am happy to know that the turnout with a lot of general practitioners is fine. So that image does change, doesn't it? The turnout is sometimes disappointing. I also think that last week I said that as time passes and people get more information, they really have more confidence. It is also about the explanation and the conviction of the general practitioners. We see that as general practitioners invest more in that, more people take that vaccine. Last Saturday there was a very nice story in the Volkskrant. If they're left, they can stick it away in 65- and 66-year-olds. It's possible. And if they'd ordered too much, that's what happens when they're in RIVM, then there's always the vaccine brokers who like to hand it over to those general practitioners who haven't been able to get enough delivery, because the Astra deliveries are disappointing all the time. So we really need a few more weeks, until at least week 20, in which we simply have to do the Astra deliveries, even before the first shot. Well, at week 19, the deliveries for the second shot start again. In short, we really just need Astra for the primary target group for whom Astra is meant. What I'm not for is for some sort of "look what you're doing" arrangement. You don't want that either, by the way. But if I did, it'd be very crowded with the GPs. That's what everyone's gonna bang on the GP's door. What I think we should do is make it very clear: this is the target group. This is the vaccine that suits this target group. In doing so, we naturally rely on the advice of the Health Council. And for all target groups for whom AstraZeneca is not intended, i.e. anyone under 60 but at a risk that gives a certain priority in the vaccination strategy, an alternative should simply be offered. Then it's about liability. That is an important point. Mr Paternotte had a question about it, but so did Mrs Bikker. I have to explain the legal side. First, the property side. A vaccine is the property of the State until it is administered. So it's owned by RIVM. A vaccine is delivered under the condition that one adheres to the directive. The Directive lays down the target group for which vaccine is available. Can there be a derogation from this in an individual case? The answer to this is: yes, there may be derogations in an individual case. That must be argued, with the "why." That is possible, and that has been well defined by the inspection, only for patients under 60 who are in the high risk group. That can only happen if people were already called up for vaccination with AstraZeneca. This can only be done if people really cannot wait until that other vaccine that would be offered to them as an alternative is actually administered. I believe that this is hardly happening anymore, because this alternative is already being offered these weeks. And then it can indeed be administered in very exceptional individual cases. Is there any question of liability? I can't get into that in advance. Not in general terms, because a derogation from the directive is allowed on its own under these conditions. Doctors also know under what conditions that is allowed. In general, therefore, I cannot say that there is any question of liability. On the contrary, it is allowed in individual cases. But I can't say in advance that a doctor is never liable. And why is that? Because it is always an individual weighting in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u341	Only high-risk groups that had already been called up. That is indeed a very small group. There you can, if you're late late at night... The Minister is probably right, you shouldn't open too many vials, but in each vial there are 12 units, so on average you'd have six left. That's not so crazy. But you can't use that if you hadn't summoned that person before. The point is that you say that I cannot exactly define it in individual cases. There was an instruction on the website of the inspection, which was removed after twelve ministers, in which the doctors were left room again. I do not know exactly what that is about, but what I do know is that the Dutch Family Doctors Society and the VvAA indicate that the doctor has a professional space and a professional responsibility in it, but that they, because it is not clear now, expect that clarity of course from the Minister................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So their advice is: just refuse all 60-minners. So I will come back to my specific point, if at the end of the day there are an average of six left, and there are a few patients whose GP thinks: they are people in a group who may not be the next one, but who really benefit from it, for example because they are 39 years or cancer patients, and so they are not soon in another category. Then what do you want to happen? Do you want them to throw away the six, or do you want them to call these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u342	No, the appointment with the GPs is 65- and 66-year-olds. So if that's the case with GPs now, then the deal is 65- and 66-year-olds. That's where they put their surplus. That's the primary target group. All alternative high-risk groups have already been offered an alternative. The higher risk groups start to be invited from the first week of May, because they are being pricked by the GGD. In doing so, it is possible to give them a slightly higher priority throughout the full-grown groups. That was the call from GroenLinks and the PvdA, among others, last time. I was able to fill that in by having these people invited by the GP to be pricked at the GGD, just before the group of 50 to 59 years. Back to your question: can a general practitioner use any remaining shots in an alternative way? Yeah, the appointment with GPs is 65- and 66-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u343	Would you like to ask the question a little bit shorter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u344	It's a complex matter, so I think it's important to put it right. But what the Minister is answering here is very clear to me. Perhaps that should also be made clear: if the general practitioner cannot use it within the vaccination strategy, then he must throw it away. I think that is a great thing to note, because my idea would be that at that time you would give a doctor, who has sworn an oath and who has to abide by all kinds of laws, the space to make a sensible decision. That could be throwing it away. But that could also be: a patient who will have to wait for weeks, help to be protected from a virus of which almost 10,000 infections have been added today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u345	Let me be clear: we have defined the order of the groups with each other. It has been established for a good reason, based on the advice of the Health Council. You're not gonna go through surplus guidelines. What you're trying to do is to use the surplus within the target group that's next in line. A very clear surplus has been made with the general practitioners: 65- and 66-year-olds. If you have a game left at the end of the day, you really have enough 65- and 66-year-olds left to lose your surplus. Of course, you'll have to call him. They don't come by themselves, because they can't smell the vaccine left. But all general practitioners can really do that in a very practical way. Luckily, that's what's happening. In addition, the question is: in some cases, could it be that as a general practitioner you can also prick someone, so that is the legal side below 60 with a medical indication? The answer is: yes, in an individual case it is. That's what's gonna happen. Indeed, a doctor makes his own professional assessment, in an individual case. The inspection has been relatively restrictive and this is also well formulated in which individual case this is possible. Well, then that doctor will have the room for that. So I would think that nothing really needs to be thrown away. That was the 60-minute possibility. Mrs Bikker asked about the GGD. It has the freedom to give any remaining vaccine to people who are vulnerable. Before that we had a surplus directive. Last time, we had the debate on whether those really vulnerable people could be added to it, as general practitioners who can contribute to it. That was the example of the beautiful region of North Limburg. Following the debate, the GGD amended its surplus directive and gave it the real opportunity to do so. Now you're seeing more and more GGDs making that kind of arrangement. But there is no right to do so. We have to stop everyone from banging on the door of the GPs. That's not the deal. But if a GGD can arrange that with a number of GPs around, then that's good to do. The Directive has been adapted accordingly. Then Mr Wilders asked the same question as last time, namely to let people of 60 who no longer have confidence in AstraZeneca choose. Last time, I explained that I am in favour of not making a choice, because it could slow down the build-up of protection, especially for the group 60-64. I called it "we'll poke what the pot buys." In the end, we'll have a lot of vaccines left. Those who have not yet had their turn will be given the opportunity to do so, but that is only when the programme has been implemented. Now it's pricking with the vaccine you're given. Then there is the question of 2022 and 2023 by Mr Paternotte and, in my view, Mr Dassen. How do you handle next year's vaccines? Are they adapted to the latest mutations? First of all, as regards the Commission's statement that I read back somewhere in a newspaper, namely that we would be betting entirely on mRNA. I'm not for that. To be honest, I do not understand why the Commission is making that statement. It also seems premature to me, because we are in the middle of a discussion between the Commission and the Member States on what our commitment to 2022 and 2023 should be. And yes, the mRNA vaccines have surprised us all positively: in the speed with which they came about and in the enormous effectiveness rates. But what we still do not know is the long-term protection that these vaccines offer. We don't know, because we've only been in our vaccination program for a few months. It could be that we don't know and there's no reason to assume that those antibody titers will decrease over time. If so, it may be that a booster is needed very frequently or that alternative platforms, other vaccine techniques, certainly prove to be so effective in the longer term. But we don't know that. I am in favour of making all platforms, all vaccine techniques, part of our countering for 2022 and 2023, but especially for 2022. The second thing I am in favour of is making an agreement to get the vaccines in composition adapted to the latest variants you would like to protect. This will require a more contractual agreement, which does not concern a particular type of vaccine, so that you will always be supplied according to the latest mutations of vaccines. There should be a system, similar to the flu vaccination, whereby a renowned group of scientists, often under the responsibility of the WHO or ECDC, compiles a cocktail of virus variants against which you want to be vaccinated and which you place as an order with the vaccine supplier. I would like that not only for the mRNA vaccines, but also for vector or protein vaccines. We don't have protein vaccines at the moment. However, we do have vector vaccines from Janssen and Astra. Sputnik is also a vector vaccine. I want all three techniques represented, so that we have multiple options for our entire population, not knowing whether we will only have to give the oldest or most vulnerable target group a booster I don't know, but you have to assume a vaccination of the entire population, for example from 12-plus. On the basis of these numbers, we will buy through the European Commission. Then there is another important notion, which Mrs Westerveld rightly mentioned. One of the contractual requirements for next year must be absolutely......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So: the right to resale, but much prefer donation, especially if we buy in very large numbers for next year. That's what we've done now. We bought over 80 million vaccines, so much more than we have upper arms. We will probably do that again next year, because we do not yet know exactly what the stakes will have to be. But we know that we have too much anyway, and we know that, taken all over the world, there is not too much. So we will absolutely want terms that we can deliver, donate and resell. The most primary channel we're looking at is COVAX; the global system that allows you to donate or resell the vaccines you have to other countries. Of course, you have to make good agreements, including liability agreements. We're all gonna do the same thing under contract. But I honestly think that is the best and the fastest way to contribute as the Netherlands worldwide to ensuring that everyone is protected. I agree with everyone who says, "You're not protected with each other until we're all protected." It is, of course, the case that the Western world is simply protected faster than, for example, the Third World. Can the C-TAP contribute to this? Yes, I do, but I don't want to make that conditional. Imagine that I would make that knowledge sharing conditional and otherwise not want to do business with Pfizer. Then Pfizer says, "Okay, then don't be silly." Then we'll be in the back. Of course, that doesn't help either. What we are doing is encouraging cooperation and the transfer of knowledge. We see this happening between pharmaceuticals, where the production sites of one are made available to the other. I think you're seeing a lot of cooperation right now. That's good, too. So we are promoting it, but I also said at the time when the motion was adopted: I am not going to make a harsh demand of it, because you can put yourself at a serious disadvantage if you do that. The same applies to the patents. Mrs Ploumen mentioned that. It's a very technical story, and I'll come back to it in a letter one more time. You know a lot about it. At least that will speed up our debate. I do not think that the patent or patents at present are the barrier to increasing production capacity. It's not like if you publish a patent writing for a while, someone else thinks, "Oh, that's how it's gonna be!" And then set up a factory and build it for a while. You don't say that, and you don't believe that, but I am very strong that the speed with which we stamp production facilities out of the ground is actually the only obstacle at the moment. I think that's where we're maximizing financial impulse. Of course, there is a lot of money involved at the moment. So there's no financial impediment. It is also not the case that the production sites are waiting. It is not that they are ready and would like to get to work and could have got to work if they had that patent or patent. None of that's gonna play. The scaling-up of production capacity is actually the only obstacle at the moment. For that, of course, we have the whole process with the European Commission, the HERA pathway. We have our own special envoy, who is trying to establish cooperation between different pharmaceutical companies, to maximise and scale up production capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u346	Thank you to the Minister for that answer. Those compulsory licences, or let's say more sympathetically, sharing those patents, aren't gonna make a big difference from today to tomorrow. I agree with the Minister. But we know that there is a great need for vaccines, not only next month, but also next year and probably the following years. In view of these long-term interests, action should therefore be taken right now to promote the sharing of intellectual property. So my appeal to the Minister is: look at it from that longer-term perspective. Because the reality is that there is no third party investment in production capacity, because we know that we cannot start producing because intellectual property remains with one or two pharmaceuticals. Mr President, I would like to say a few words to Mr Paternotte. I believe he suggested that the problem with AstraZeneca in the United States was caused by compulsory licences. That's bullshit. There was no compulsory licence; there was simply no supervision of that factory. So I'm just going to say that through the Minister to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u347	I'm not getting into that for a while, Mr. Chairman. I really don't get involved in that, because I'm just in favour of left-wing cooperation. So we always leave them intact. Let's go back, 'cause I'm gonna be so fucked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u348	It is about Mr Paternotte, but he is aware of no evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u349	He is aware of no evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u350	That only proves my point, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u351	Excuse me, Mrs Ploumen. It was your...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u352	The existence of intellectual property can be called obstructive, but it also helps with investment. Take Janssen, for example. That company has invested very much in fundamental research and in the development of the human cell line. It was, I believe, in the seventies that they did that. Then there was the technique of a vector vaccine. Then that was first used for ebola and that same technique is now used for corona. Had all this technique ever been developed if there was not the possibility of intellectual property? I don't think so. On the contrary, it is an opportunity to make pharmaceutical companies willing to invest in an uncertain future. Most of what pharmaceuticals ever start on basic research, even research, fails. Just because you know that and still have to deploy a lot of R&D capacity, patents help, of course, to make that investment profitable. But if it then means that pharmaceutical products would be sitting on their own patents at the expense of public health, at this stage of a pandemic that will destroy the whole world, then that would be very wrong. But that's not my picture right now with those corona vaccines. A lot is being developed side by side. There's a lot of working together over and over again. Merck was initially working on this and he said: we are certainly not ready for that for the time being and therefore use our production facilities now. This is actually happening in different parts of Europe at the moment, and one pharmaceutical company makes its production facilities available to the other pharmaceutical company. I think, frankly, that this way of working together is actually going to be better than forcing licences to be made public and to make patents public. By the way, I am very much in favour of learning from this whole phase and, for example, looking at how the United Kingdom has contracted. How did the United States contract? Interesting about the United States is that they had a production site there ready for eventualities as a huge pandemic for which, for example, you have to have a production facility very quickly. You have to have fill- and finish-capacity for that. I think that Europe needs to learn to be self-sufficient towards the future, to be self-sufficient in building its own production facilities and therefore production facilities that are not just tied to the whole pharmaceutical chain, but also production facilities that you can use flexibly for that pharmaceutical that at that time has developed a vaccine that you would like to use more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u353	Unfortunately, Mrs Ploumen. You really don't have any more questions. Excuse me. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u354	I shall come back to this in writing, and that may in turn give rise to a follow-up to this little debate. It was just an introductory shooting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u355	The Minister kept a very nice story here. It almost seems like pharmaceuticals are some kind of charity that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u356	They're not!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u357	...do a lot of good things. Exactly. We remember before the corona crisis that the company that made the biggest profits in Europe was not a large company that dealt in cars or something, but a pharmaceutical. You can of course say that on the one hand it is beautiful, but on the other hand it is of course often public money that is put into it. These patents are often developed with public money, public money that we also invest in our knowledge institutes. All this knowledge is used for beautiful new developments and in this case to make vaccines. Then it is very crooked that huge profits were made for the corona crisis as well. The Minister then says that we need to work well together and that the pharmaceuticals must be prepared to share that knowledge. That's what C-TAP is for. The problem is that there is far too little use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u358	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u359	I would like to ask him how we are going to ensure that pharmaceutical companies are going to share their knowledge with each other and that they are going to use C-TAP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u360	I do that, of course, by supporting C-TAP and heartfeltly. I do this by encouraging pharmaceutical companies to transfer their knowledge and to actually cooperate. Wherever you can force it, you must force it. But what I want to avoid is that we make demands that we put the Netherlands, the Netherlands, Dutch society and the Dutch economy at a disadvantage. Then it sounds a lot, but if Pfizer says "fine, we'll check on the neighbors first" then you'll be in the back of the line. You don't want that. You want to be in line in front of me. You want to be part of the driving force in Europe, to have the largest purchasing power, to have the negotiating power to enforce a good position and a good outcome, not just for Europe, but for the whole world. I think that is important and that this should also be requested not only from Europe, but also from the UK and also from the United States. I saw a state passing by this week showing how much the United States has handed out vaccines to other countries, namely zero, completely zero. Everything that has been made in the United States has only been used in the United States. If Europe had done that, we would probably have gone a little further, but I honestly do not believe in that. I believe, on the contrary, that Europe has a very great responsibility, including to the rest of the world. I believe you can do that on production. You can do that on contractual requirements that you attach to it, but the goal is central. The aim is more important than what means is used for this, whether it is knowledge sharing or patents. The aim is to ensure that the whole world is vaccinated as quickly as possible and that there is as much access as possible, especially for third world countries, to those vaccines. Anything that helps, we must contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u361	For that purpose, I agree. The problem is that it doesn't happen. Since last year we have C-TAP, but no knowledge is shared. We now know that the richest countries, where 14% of people live, have more than half of all available vaccines, allowing a wide range of mutations to develop in a whole number of countries. So I understand the goal, but it doesn't happen, and then my question to the Minister is: how do we ensure that these very beautiful goals are achieved? Shouldn't we start making a little more demands instead of just assuming that we're willing? Can the Minister do this here, but also, of course, in a European context?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u362	Sure, but still stands: knowledge sharing is one and cooperation is two, but the most important thing is for the time being donation. Donation is also the fastest impulse for vaccinating the Third World. For donation, the system of COVAX and Europe, including the Netherlands, is the largest contributor to this. The Netherlands also invests extra. One of the scenarios that we will submit to the Chamber for what to do with AstraZeneca when the upper arms are up here, so to speak, but we still have a lot of vaccines, is the scenario of donation to countries that need it. For this season alone, we have ordered 84 million vaccines, but we don't have that many people at all. We're not getting close yet. Even if a few vaccines fall out, you still have a lot more than you need, and that goes for the whole of Europe. Okay, for the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany perhaps the most, but it is true for the whole of Europe that we have ordered far too much. Also for next year we will buy far too much. The good news of that is that that is also for the rest of the world. The scaling-up of production, including on European soil, is also intended for the rest of the world. We have that responsibility, and we have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u363	We have that responsibility, but it is far from being enough, and that is also the whole dilemma at COVAX. That is a very nice programme and it is very nice that we are in it, but the problem is that if large pharmaceutical companies do not share their knowledge, then we still do not have much use for it. Then we still do not have enough money in the future, and certainly not now, to help other countries. The longer this takes and the longer in a number of countries insufficient people have been vaccinated, the more these viruses can mutate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u364	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u365	...and the more likely it is that we will be going back into a lockdown and suffering from different types of virus that we may need to develop new vaccines for. That's the way it goes. That is why my question to the Minister is: should we not, instead of relying very much on volunteering, impose much stricter requirements, which force pharmaceutical companies to cooperate much more? Of course, we also need to make much tighter agreements on this at European level, because the Netherlands is perhaps a country that you can set aside, but of course Europe is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u366	No, although it is possible with the current scarcity. We've seen that, too. The UK is quite well supplied. The U.S. is quite well delivered. I think that even with the enormous purchasing power of Europe you have opportunities as a pharmaceutical company, in the meantime, especially after the first few months, to look at someone else first. In any case, I agree with Mrs Westerveld's whole speech, except for one point, namely the belief that knowledge sharing at the moment would speed up the vaccination of the third world. That's not true. Upgrading production and then donating is the fastest way to get the rest of the world vaccinated. The need for this is beyond question. Even if you only do it out of self-interest, that necessity still exists. I can see that this was just an introductory shooting, and that we are going to talk a lot about this. I will continue with a number of other questions. Why haven't all the residents of the nursing homes been vaccinated yet, Mrs Den Haan of 50PLUS asks. This has to do with the fact that at the start not everyone can be vaccinated, for example because residents were ill, quarantined or otherwise too vulnerable and also assessed as too vulnerable by their doctor. Either they hadn't given permission yet, or the family hadn't given permission yet. There could be a lot of reasons. Some people also have reasons of principle for not being vaccinated. So those are the reasons. A repeat round has now taken place. Most of the residents have now been vaccinated. One hundred percent of the residents will not be able to vaccinate, I think, because some of the people refuse the vaccine. We have designed a kind of permanent repeat round which, for example, allows new residents, who may not yet have been vaccinated, to be vaccinated immediately. Mrs Den Haan said: the strategy is to vaccinate from old to young, but not all 80-plussers and 90-plussers have been vaccinated. That's actually the same story. Also for home residents, they are all invited. The GPs also pricked their Astra with the non-mobile elderly living at home, who couldn't come to the GGD. But from old to young is indeed the strategy. Where we plan repeat rounds, we start from the top down again, because that is the fastest way to protect everyone in a good way. How can people be invited by the GP and by the GGD? This has to do, for example, with the fact that someone who works in health care and is 62 years old is invited by his employer to go to the GGD and can be invited by his GP to be pricked at home. That's an example. There are several examples where there can be such a double. That is only if the invitation moments are close together, because once registration is in the central registration system CIMS, there will be no double invitation. People with, for example, a high-risk medical condition, which can also be invited by their specialist and, if they fall into the group 60-64, can also be invited by their general practitioner. If they're 70-plus, they can be invited by the GD. This can be done, but once again: if those periods are a little further apart, they will be prevented by central registration. Could mRNA vaccines also become available to vulnerable cancer patients aged 60-64 with a higher risk of thrombosis? The current vaccination strategy has chosen to vaccinate people between 60 and 64 with Astra. For all vaccines and for all medical groups............................................................................................................................................................................... We've asked for advice from the Health Council. That's well-objected. We also asked: is there perhaps another group in that group 60-64 that you should not want to do with Astra; is there a contra-indication; should you still have such a mRNA vaccine? No, no different than the high-risk groups that were already defined. AstraZeneca is just for over 60 a fine, safe vaccine. That very nasty thrombosis image, which does occur under 60, doesn't occur more than it does in the population at all, and that is very, very, very rare. Mr Dassen asked: are we prepared for large-scale vaccination when deliveries of serious size are placed on the doorstep? The answer is yes. I have explained this a number of times in letters. One thing has changed since last week, namely that I have asked the general practitioners: do we want to invite the larger group of people with a higher medical vulnerability, so the flu group, but let's do it through the GGD, because then we can insert that group right after the 60-plussers have been there. So that means that we ask the GGD to vaccinate more people than it really goes through the 1.5 million; how exactly the GGD does that, I'll let you know about it and the general practitioners a little less. In addition, we have of course agreed with the hospitals that they also contribute to the peak capacity. All the preparations for this are being made at the moment. If there are very large deliveries coming, for example, in a two-week period, we can organise peak days. The hospitals, general practitioners and, of course, the GGD can play a role in this. The basic capacity has been scaled up by the GGD anyway. I'll update you every time in those letters about what we've organised before and what those roadmaps look like. I think that was the pile of vaccination and that was the thickest pile. So from now on it can only get shorter, Mr. President. This is for encouragement. The access tests. Last week many of these questions have already been dealt with, and I think we will be dealing with many of them again next week, so let's not go through them all in detail. I'd like to take away a few misunderstandings, otherwise it'll stick like that. First of all, that test society, that word. It's not my word. It is a word that has been used in the newspaper, in society and also in the Chamber, including by Mr Klaver. It's not my word. It's not something I'm really looking for, I'm on my way, because I think that a lot of people have the sound color: oh, then I'm only going to be allowed to participate in society if I'm always getting tested. That's not what I'd like to be on my way to. That is not the perspective I would like to outline. There will be a period of several months when if you want to make something more possible than there can be epidemiologically that can indeed do so safely with access tests: making more things possible, rather making things possible. Last time I mentioned the example of a pizzeria, a restaurant, where you could go in step 3 with its thirty. If he could lose 60 in his case, I think he'd like to talk about getting access tests to complete his case so that he can run his business better and pay his staff back. So I want to prevent people from thinking that the cabinet is on its way to make that testing mandatory everywhere for far too long. The bill that we are going to deal with next week requires that this is only allowed if things can be done sooner, only if more things can be made possible, and once it works restrictively no longer. I think that's important. Then there's the misunderstanding about the money. This has been an estimate by the Foundation Open Nederland. Somewhere we have had the question: what has been estimated of costs associated with this? That's the 925 million. Are we gonna spend that, too? Well, no. And certainly not without us making a decision about it. In fact, I can assume that the tender that is currently being tendered will lead to a lower cost. We are going to look again and again at the costs that really have to be incurred for this and we are going to carry them together in the beginning, in the first few months. Then there's your own contribution. That is also a story that comes back a lot, especially from the concern that it might be obstructive. The four-year-old family, I would like to say, is Mrs Marijnissen's family, which would then be able to cut off €7.50 four times. It is not for nothing that we have said as a cabinet: we are not going to do that for the time being. For the time being, we're going to bear the costs together, because it helps that restaurant and it helps that football club to get back into public. It helps to take those steps in the open plan for the time being. And actually, we expect all five steps out of the open plan to be taken before 1 July. In fact, we have scaled down all the restrictive measures. So what you're probably left with is that that's my estimate at this point... is that you're only doing access tests for, for example, very big festivals. You have to buy a ticket that is not cheap and then you can add your own contribution. If you didn't do that at the time, that would mean that we're going to pay together from the taxes at the festival ticket of the time Quint. That is also an invigorating thought, of course. Then I think Mr Kwint can also pay €7.50. It's possible. That own contribution will not follow until July. Then we think we almost don't need access tests anymore, only for very large-scale meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u367	A question from Mr Van Haga and then from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What bothers me is that I explicitly asked last time: who is going to pay for this? And then you said, no, the entrepreneur's not gonna pay for this. You knew at that moment, I think, that the next day, the next day, we would get a bill that just says €7.50. Would it not have been normal if you had said at that time: it is still a while away, but tomorrow you will have a proposal. I think that would have been more complete and at least that would have removed my irritation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u369	It is clear that the entrepreneur is not going to pay for this. The entrepreneur's not gonna pay for this. There'll be a private contribution. I think I mentioned that last time. How it went exactly is that on that Thursday we ourselves had a ministerial meeting to discuss with a number of colleagues how we would deal with it in the longer term. For the shorter term, we've said it's on the government's behalf. That's what you've been able to read in all the letters. It is for all of us, because the government itself has no money. That's just all tax money. Then we said the following. Suppose that the access tests are no longer necessary for the regular restaurant owner, that the access tests for an average theatre company are no longer necessary for a cinema, so for all those ordinary elements is no longer necessary, because you have actually had until step 5 of the open plan and you only have to do the entrance tests for very large meetings, where you will still have to buy a ticket as a festival goer. Wouldn't it be reasonable, then, to ask for a contribution of your own? Indeed, that was only decided on that Friday, in an amendment to the bill on that Thursday. That bill was amended on Thursday to add this long-term element.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u370	I don't believe any of this. It also seems very unlikely to me that the Minister knew nothing about it and did not suspect that it was coming, but all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u371	Just for a little while, or else it'll stick. The question was: do entrepreneurs have to pay for it? The answer is: no, entrepreneurs don't have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u372	You're going to talk through me now. I'll let you go, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u373	Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u374	This was exactly my follow-up question. It gets even more disturbing, actually. That €7.50 is not going to be paid by the entrepreneur. If you have to pay €7.50 at the entrance, someone will pay it. It's not like money grows on trees. That money belongs to all of us and then the taxpayer will pay it. But if the customer is going to pay it, that entrepreneur will undoubtedly take care of it. It's gonna be paid somewhere. You probably have little experience in business. I can guarantee that if the customer has to pay it, the entrepreneur will do his best to get the customer in. If I have to pay €45 with my six-person family to sit on a terrace or enter a festival, that entrepreneur will facilitate me. So the entrepreneur is going to pay for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u375	No, that's really wrong. It's okay to put that out with each other. It's really wrong. I hear that little terrace coming back a lot. We're not gonna test access there anyway. Access testing on a terrace doesn't make any sense. We're not gonna do that. Access tests at a restaurant? Only if with access tests the restaurant can be fuller and the entrepreneur can keep more money at the end of the evening than without access tests, only then. At that stage of applying the access tests, it's government account anyway. And why? The reason for this is that you do not have to pay it out in the form of aid packages, but then it can be earned by the entrepreneur. Because that's what he wants. The account is not paid by the customer or by the entrepreneur if the access tests are applied in this way. Then five steps into the open plan. Then we're on July 1st. Mr Van Haga then goes to a festival, to Lowlands; I just see it in front of me. Then he'll have to pay several tens for the ticket. In fact, he is also asked to pay part of the costs, not all of them, namely the €7.50, at the test street. I think that's a good idea. Is that entrepreneur gonna take over those costs? I don't think so. Is the festival still well filled? I think so. I think so many people feel like festivals that they're really going to pay that €7.50 extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u376	I think the minister has no idea how the economy works. If there is an extra €7.50 on a ticket, it will have an effect somewhere: either there will be fewer people, or the entrepreneur will take care of it. Maybe I accidentally named the terrace, but for all kinds of festivals, you're going to set it up for all kinds of things. Those costs are going to end up somewhere, and that will have an effect on that entrepreneur, either in the number of people there, or he's going to compensate the customers who are coming. You have no idea. Those entrepreneurs are hanging with their heads in the noose right now. It's really nice that you say "they can make some extra money," but no, they can't make anything, they're breaking up right now. Whether they can have 20, 30 or 40 extra people, while they still have to be paid for, is really a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u377	This is exactly why I... This is true. For many entrepreneurs, for example in the catering industry, it is really dry bread. Of course, there are aid packages, but they never fully meet the burden that entrepreneurs do. They have people on the payroll they have to pay for, don't know if they'll make it to the end of the month. Those are very, very big concerns right now. It is precisely for this reason that we need to look at what would be epidemiologically sound where you can give the entrepreneur more space, more impact in the very short term. Not later, not only in June or July, but preferably already at the end of May. I'd love it if I could. That's what access tests are for. Then Mr Van Haga rightly says: if you bring that access tests on behalf of the entrepreneur or the customer, then you are sure it will never be a success. That's right. That is why we have said: in May, June and July we want to pay for it ourselves, or actually with each other. But as of 1 August we do consider it possible to ask for this €7.50. Why do we think that is possible? Why do we not think there is then a division? Because it's not about the ordinary things of life anymore. It's not about just having dinner or just going to a theater. A theatre company will probably want to perform its pieces for more than 30 people who are allowed to sit in a room at that time. It's about really big meetings. For all these other things, the standard we impose on ourselves in the legislative proposal is no longer met, namely that access tests are only applied if there are earlier or more things possible. Otherwise it will not pass the proportionality test that we ourselves have written in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u378	Your last question, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u379	Is it my last question? Don't I have any more questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u380	No, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u381	Yeah, it's gonna be really hard, 'cause I still have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u382	You still have a second term. But it's the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u383	Okay. Let's just forget about this. Then I have another question. That's what I said. I was hoping that I would have gotten an answer to that. That question is about the antigen rapid tests. They're notoriously unreliable, much more unreliable than the PCR test. So how are you going to facilitate that? Because in the end we will have lots of false positives, but also lots of false negatives. You have to worry about that, don't you? I know I can't ask a follow-up question anymore, so I hope the Minister can exhaust himself in an answer that I can immediately be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u384	I actually try every week, but I do not always succeed towards Mr Van Haga. We'd like to use the antigen tests, because you'll be able to test quickly. They are practical and cheaper. That's important, too. But we only want to use the most reliable antigen tests. That is why we have had a very extensive validation program. We had that scientifically supervised in a good way. We just want to use the best antigen tests for that. So we bought that one, too. They must meet certain standards, including reliability standards. That must have been proven. We only use those tests. That's one. The second is that those field labs, Mrs. Marijnissen, are looking for a better word for "field lab" actually the scientific settings, the experiments settings, are to test the access tests. The pilots access tests we do in April are meant to test the access tests practically and see how that works. There have been several field labs. For example, that business event in Utrecht, sitting inside for the first time, was the first. There has also been one in a few cafés in Utrecht. They were meant to try out how it works when you're running access tests. What is the behavior of people inside? How does pre- and post-testing lead to a certain risk of infection that is acceptable given the level of infection outside? The level of contagion outside is now high. So this is also the time to try out the field labs. That's why they're well scientificly supervised. There were also a number of questions about this. This whole research programme was set up in collaboration with Radboud, TNO, TU Delft, University of Twente, Breda University of Applied Sciences. That's how the research program is supervised. What we learn from that is in which setting it is justified to be together with a large number of people after the gate of access testing. And yes, we use antigen tests. You always have to assume that there are some false negatives in there. They get a negative outcome, but with a PCR test they would indeed be tested positive. That's what you have to discount in the fact that otherwise these people wouldn't have just been inside on the couch reading a book. They probably would've been out somewhere that weekend anyway. So that's what you have to count. You end up trying to see if the setting behind the gate is a sufficiently safe bubble to be with more people than would otherwise be justified. That's how the field labs are set up. The lessons we draw from this are then incorporated into the access tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u385	That really wasn't an answer to my question. I had a very simple short question. Those Abbott tests...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u386	That is why I give you the opportunity to intervene, as the question has not been fully answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u387	Thank God you agree, Mr. Chairman. 40% of the antigen tests are just wrong, just doesn't, is just bad. You can't put together a whole field lab or set up a whole test society with that, can you? Those antigen tests aren't suitable for that. It's a very simple question: do you think they're appropriate enough or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u388	Yeah, they're good enough. I think that's a good wording. Are they 100% reliable? No, of course not. No test is 100% reliable. Is the PCR test more reliable? Oh, yeah. I know your enthusiasm for the PCR test, but the PCR test is definitely more reliable. But are they sufficiently reliable to be able to join a field lab? The answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u389	Mrs Van der Plas and then Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u390	I would like to go back to the first point, about the access tests and their own contribution. The point was that in the debate last week the Minister said that there might still be a contribution of his own, but then we are really much further in time; we have yet to see it. And 12 hours later, it's already there. Now I hear this hasn't been decided until noon. I find that hard to believe anyway. I think we left about 1:30 or 12:00, 12:00. Twelve hours later, the bill came. Then a whole night goes over it, then a morning goes over it. There'll be a cup of coffee. Then there will be a Council of Ministers. Then it is decided in a very short time: we do 1 July and €7.50. Then where did the €7.50 come from? That's a calculation being made, isn't it? You're not gonna shake that up, are you? To be honest, I find it rather difficult to believe that this was decided there and that we are all wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u391	It happened the way I outlined it, but maybe I just need to explain. You can find that if you simply read the letters in order and look at the legal history in order. Then you can just reconstruct it using that. We have said to each other: in the current phase, actually until summer, we simply have to bear the costs of access testing together. Because you can't ask entrepreneurs at this stage. You can't ask people who go to a restaurant, because then the access tests will never work. For the time being, therefore, you have to bear the costs together. Until last Thursday, when we had a debate here, the letters said: for the time being we will bear these costs together. That's what it said. Last week, in the debate, I said that at least we are not going to put that account in the hands of entrepreneurs. That's what I said. And I have said that there may be a request for an own contribution. That's right. Possibly. Why did I say "possible"? Well, I had agreed with three colleagues in the cabinet that we would amend the bill that way from August 1st. That decision was taken on Friday in the Council of Ministers and, on Thursday, both the legislative proposal and the explanatory memorandum were amended in the Council. That did happen on that Thursday. But I cannot anticipate the decision we take on Friday in the Council of Ministers. And that is why I formulated it as I put it. I have said: for the time being, government, and possibly at some point a private contribution, not for entrepreneurs, but a small, limited own contribution from 1 August. Why isn't that a problem? It is the moment when access testing is no longer at all applicable in many sectors. And why? The bill requires that access tests are only carried out if it allows you to make things possible sooner or if it allows you to make more things possible. So if you've had step 5 of the open plan, you won't need it anymore. So only from August 1st for very large festivals for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u392	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u393	Good. I'm going to look back at the footage in a moment, because it's a very long story. Another question. I hear the Minister say that it is for very big festivals and that people have money for them, so they can also pay the €7.50. Frankly, I find that a little insulting, because you do not know whether people can afford it. I know people in my neighborhood who save all year long to go to one particular festival. They are then faced with four more €7.50 for their families. For them, that's the only event they're going to. That's more of a comment than a question. The question is, do you want to be more careful with that? Look, we may deserve a nice sandwich here, but a lot of people in the Netherlands don't. They must really save up to go to such a festival.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u394	I would just like to point out that, of course, we are going to have a legal procedure on this subject. So there's still a lot to be exchanged. I'm giving the Minister a chance to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u395	That's right. I understand very well what Mrs Van der Plas is saying. It is precisely this point that gives us the right at some point to apply the principle of profit, as we call it. Because everyone pays taxes, premiums, etc., the people with that small scholarship will also pay for the entrance tests until the summer. At some point you can really say: well, that's only for very big festivals; then you have to buy a ticket and then we just ask the people who benefit from the access to that festival. Can't you do it? Yeah, you can. Then you have to pay it out of the taxes longer than you can pay it out of the taxes or you have to stop access testing at any time. Of course that can be done, but then you have to count on the fact that these festivals cannot go on in that size, because that is just not safe, even then. In short, we do it as long as it's really necessary, and if it's no longer necessary, we don't do it anymore. We are going to pay it with each other for the time being, because then we will pay it together and then there can be no question of the inequality that arises if you do that too quickly or if you do so with too much money, as Mrs Marijnissen rightly points out. So we're only doing it from a certain point of time, and it's actually right to make sure that the people on a small scholarship don't have to pay for the people who can actually afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u396	Then there's my third question. As far as the big festivals are concerned, it remains a bit vague for me. I would like to know from the Minister exactly which events there should be an entry test from August onwards. Is it compulsory, then, and what is its own contribution? It's sticking a little bit now. Yeah, the big festivals, but can we call it man and horse, like "that and that and those and those festivals"? Or at least that size and that size?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u397	No, we can't. We have tried in the open plan to indicate what becomes extra possible from step 2 and step 3, because we are going to test access. Moreover, we still have to determine the exact conditions for this. Steps 4 and 5 I just don't dare to color in at the moment. Imagine that such a festival would actually be quite safe, even with 5,000 men or perhaps 10,000, without access tests. Well, then, of course, we'll stop testing access. Then there will be no access tests at all, not even from August and not to our own contribution; then we will just stop. But I simply cannot judge that at the moment, because that would require me now to be able to assess the epidemiological situation in August. I think that's too much to ask. My estimate is that it will only have to be for larger meetings, for larger festivals, but of course I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u398	But so only festivals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u399	Yeah, I call that because they're big meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u400	So I want to make that clear, because there are "festivals" here. I'm trying to prevent us from getting angry again because there are other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u401	Getting angry is never good. Let's just deal with the bill very thoroughly next week. Then all these kinds of questions can be dealt with perfectly. I call festivals because they are bigger meetings, but I call them mainly because there are a lot of people there together. And I couldn't really think about what other examples might be there by then. But it's just about big meetings, where a lot of people are together, and where the chance of infection or recontamination is quite decent. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u402	Do you agree, Mrs Van der Plas, that these questions can be exchanged in the debate next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u403	Of course, but I would like to ask one more question, and I would like to make that clear. I just heard the Minister say that perhaps it will not be necessary at all, and we will not do any more access tests at all. Is that a promise already in case we get out of the corona crisis? Can society then count on the fact that the access tests simply disappear completely from society? So not that we end up in a society that we might think of later: well, maybe that's pretty convenient, because that's how we prevent people from getting infected? So they're gonna go off?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u404	That's the core of the bill. So when you read the bill, you see it in it: it's temporary, it's for the duration of the corona crisis, just to make things extra possible, and never to limit things that otherwise, without the access tests, could just be possible. And that therefore gives the cabinet the duty to always motivate why it does or does not do so for a particular sector. There can never be a duty for entrepreneurs to participate. There can never be a duty for people to participate. In short, it is covered with all kinds of security guarantees, and only temporarily, only for the duration of the corona crisis. And that's also why I don't like that term "test society," because that's not something you really want to go to. At least I don't, and I don't think we really want any of that under the line. The point is: a lot longer in lockdown, or a lot longer theatres make it impossible to sit with some larger groups, or make it impossible for entrepreneurs to exploit their business, we don't want to. So it's a little picking from two evils, and then we think: yes, for the time being, that access testing might be a solution for a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u405	Well, the reason I ask is: look, I can read things; and I also read things, believe me. But sometimes I can read things wrong, too, so that's why I'm asking here. I'd just like to have a one-to-one answer, because I'll be able to look back later: did I understand that correctly, or did he say something else? And reading things, you can interpret things wrong. So that's why I'm asking here one-on-one. But the answer is clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u406	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u407	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u408	Yes. We've had the tests now, then we have a few other questions. The relaxations in the nursing homes. Mrs Pouw had a question about this, but also the D66 group of the CU, and I think Mrs Den Haan also had questions about it. Look, what we already have is an OMT advice, which says: if 80% of the nursing homes have been vaccinated, then it offers the opportunity to do some more things, namely in your own room; then you don't need the protective equipment, you can come with more visitors; then the volunteers, who of course haven't been in the nursing homes for a while, can come back; you can work with group activities more. But, as the OMT says, leave the decision on how to do that exactly, to the house. How precise the vaccination rate is, listens closely and the vulnerability of residents also listens closely. What we shouldn't have is a kind of national standard where it says: you have to and you will, hopsakee, get back to work. Because we can't see from here how things are at a location. And what we shouldn't have is that we can do all kinds of things again, but that the nursing homes themselves say, for the sake of caution: inside not, better but as a precaution, avoid all risks. You don't want to. That's why it's a good thing that call is being made on site. And that's what's gonna happen. That's agreed with the industry organization. I think there was a somewhat wrong picture, because an older report from the academic workshops gave rise to the coverage. Indeed, there was little to be seen of the relaxations, but that is a report from some time ago. If we ask the sector organisations now, we see a lot of relaxation. Is that enough? Well, no, I don't think so. 'Cause I'm seeing some cautious houses, too. But at least I think it's okay to leave that conversation there on location. We can't estimate the vulnerability in a location from here. I do think that conversation should be conducted properly, so that clients or relatives also know where to go with those questions. My picture is that that goes well, but we keep our finger on the wrist very strongly. We really talk to the people in the nursing home sector every week to ask how things are going and whether some more could be made possible. We are, of course, looking very strongly anyway. Also the elderly who live at home, for example; what else could be possible? At home there can be more natural soon, especially if both are vaccinated. Then the protection is not 100% of what we should not make of it either, but the protection is adequate. In the shop, of course, that's difficult. It's hard to say, when you're vaccinated, you don't have to wear a mask. Whoever's at the door can't tell whether or not someone has been vaccinated. So that distinction in society itself is hard to make. But there can be a lot at home, of course. What about the mental health of lonely elderly people living at home and the welfare support package? Can the elderly take advantage of this? I think I answered that question last time in the direction of Mrs Den Haan. This support package has a number of lines of action: youth as well as vulnerable people including older people. The whole social aid package is therefore also aimed at the elderly. Then there is Mrs Marijnissen's question and Mr Kuzu's question on the GGD. Looking back and learning there is, of course, a lot to be said about this, also about the organisation in 25 regions and the extent to which it is or is not suitable in a more central chain of command that you need in the case of an A disease. We are preparing how this can in future get a different type of governance in A-disease. In addition, all aspects of the organisation and the extent to which they are up to the pandemic will be examined in the evaluation, including by the OVV. So we're definitely going to talk about that very extensively. And by the way, when there are concerns about the GGD, I always like to say at the same time: call me one organisation that has delivered such a top performance in the past year! With over 10 million tests, for example, with over a million source and contact tests, with millions of vaccinations now. Most of the vaccinations in the Netherlands are put by the GGD. It is an organisation in which tens of thousands of people work in the front line of the crisis. And they've done that under the line, I think, incredibly impressive. The enormous spirit with which they get back to work every day, I just have great admiration for that. I like to always say that when it comes to the G.D.D. Then the homeless and homeless. Mrs Westerveld asked a question about this. The phasing-out of emergency care will not start until step 2 of the open plan begins. As long as the national lockdown applies, the emergency shelter will also remain open. RIVM has previously indicated that there is no likelihood that there is a greater risk of spreading COOVID-19 among homeless people on the streets than in the shelter. The Secretary of State of VWS is talking to market players from the field to ensure that the phasing-out takes place in a careful manner. The reception facilities will talk to everyone in the shelter to look at the step after the reception. Then there's the flight ban, India. Mr Paternotte asked questions about this, but Mr Heerma was also critical of it. There's never a fundamental obstacle or anything like that to not want to ban airplanes. I think we've shown that too. When it had to be for the UK, we decided and executed that in one evening. So there's never a fundamental obstacle in it. What we need to do is rationalise and, on the basis of the RIVM's finding that it would be necessary, take additional measures for people travelling. I'm gonna say a few things about that. India is also currently subject to an EU entry ban. There is a ban on countries outside Schengen. This does not, of course, apply to EU residents, but to people from India. The EU's residents are therefore the only ones to get through. They have a double test obligation, thanks to D66. We're gonna want to get rid of that at some point, once we have that quarantine obligation. But for now, there is a double test obligation: you need a PCR test of up to 72 hours old and on top of that an antigen test of up to 24 hours old. That's gonna hold up a lot. That double lock is an effective double lock. In addition, the quarantine advice applies as soon as they are on Dutch soil. In short, the people who still squeak through it, go through the entire car wash, so the virus probably stays out of the door anyway. That's one. Two. The WHO, you asked, has not yet identified the new mutation as a 'variant or group', a dangerous variant, not even in today's consultations. The variant is, of course, under investigation. If it turns out that this is the case and if the RIVM advises us "you should go even further than the non-Schengen ban and beyond the double test obligation plus the quarantine advice," then we will go further. I have no problem with that. In addition, one of the legislative proposals that we are discussing next Wednesday is important. That proposal concerns the quarantine requirement for people travelling. This applies to people from areas with a very high risk. If you see the rate of infection now, at least, I have to rely on the newspaper 'R' in India, you can say that it is an area with a very high risk in terms of contagion. So that country could just be on that list by then. From that moment on, at least, if you adopt the bill, therefore, there is a enforceable quarantine obligation. That is very necessary. By the way, all Western European countries actually have that. It is very necessary, because it also offers the opportunity to abandon that double test obligation, or at least to exchange it for a single test. That also makes it possible, I say in the direction of Mr Paternotte, to lift at some point that flight ban, which is now very generic for South America. I think that's also very important, because a test obligation plus quarantine obligation will give you enough lock on the door to keep your nasty variants out of the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u409	There are countries that have much stricter restrictions than we do. I call Hong Kong, for example, where you have to spend 21 days in a hotel before you come in. That's where 47 Indians flew now. They were all tested negative before the flight, equal to the requirement we make. 22 of them were tested positive on day 12 of the quarantine. 47 people of all people on that flight were finally tested positive. So it's true that people are squeaking through it. Suppose there's a variant that the vaccines don't work so well against. That's what the Director of the Ministry of Health in Israel says. It says the Pfizer vaccine works less well against the Indian variant, because they've seen infections there. Well, then, here's what I'm wondering. If you finally set it up, you better have done it as early as possible. If you see France imposing a heavy travel restriction, the UK imposing a flight ban, saying in Canada that they are going to take measures, would you like to see what happens next, or is it better to see why these countries are doing so? And you're saying, I'm in touch with them and I'm willing to reconsider on that basis. 'Cause that's what I'm hoping to hear from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u410	It's not a matter of rethinking. I read today the message that I would be against a flight ban for India. The opposite is true. These are rather far-reaching measures. Then I am in favour of you setting it on the basis of an objectivated and objectivable judgment. That's got to come from RIVM. RIVM is in contact with ECDC and the WHO on this subject, and of course also follows the considerations made by other countries. It may be that the Indian variant is actually a variant that you have to worry about, but that has not yet been established, even in today's WTO consultations, I understand. But it could be just like that. The high level of contagion in India can also have another cause, of course. It doesn't necessarily have to be an infectious mutation. You can, but you don't have to. In short, I would just like to say that the cabinet is very willing to take any measure that helps. Moreover, there is a considerable restriction on travel and a considerable number of measures in place to ensure that we keep bad variants out of the door. This also applies to India, such as the double test obligation, the quarantine advice and the travel ban from outside Schengen to Europe. These are all measures that are already in force. There will be the quarantine obligation for travellers next week, if the Chamber accepts it. Furthermore, I am prepared to take any additional measure deemed necessary by the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u411	Mr Van Dissel stated this morning in the technical briefing that there may be several reasons for the high level of contamination in India, but it is rising remarkably rapidly. The number of infections has really gone up in a couple of weeks. Mr Paternotte has already referred to England, France and Canada. I believe Pakistan is closing the border. So there is something going on and apparently there are western countries that are now taking additional measures ahead of possible WTO notification as a 'variant or group'. Why do these other countries do that and is RIVM prepared to enter into consultations with these countries? That is what I think Mr Paternotte asked. It may provide knowledge if it is said that there is more to it, so that is what we are going to do. I think that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u412	The answer is yes, but through the RIVM, because I want it to be objectivable, not on the policy side, but on the research side. Through RIVM. It is really their job to collect images from other countries about the level of risk setting in a particular country. They really have more options for that. The answer is yes, but through RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u413	Okay. That was the question. I understand from today's answer that there is such consultation every Thursday. Apparently, today has not been judged hard enough. I would like to see us, if necessary in a letter, explain why it has not been decided and what the consultations with those other countries will bring, so that we can look at what is going on with each other. If it's serious, I'd rather decide in a week's time than in three weeks and that you might be late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u414	I'd be happy to. I would add that RIVM's advice can follow every day. It's been agreed it's going on weekly anyway. I believe it is on Monday that RIVM advises Foreign Affairs on the international situation. The measures will be adapted accordingly. That's just an objectified data. We will add an instrument to that next Wednesday. That's the quarantine obligation. Yesterday I asked RIVM if we know for sure about India; yes, we know for sure about India for the moment. It's always a question you answer in the context of that moment. It could be Saturday or Sunday different. That's when you get a call from Jaap van Dissel in the evening, and then suddenly things get different. Then we can make overnight the decision to move on. We do that on the basis of the advice of the RIVM. Your question is whether RIVM, independently of the WHO, can check bilaterally with a number of countries. I will pass on that question and I will inform you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u415	Mr Van Dissel said this morning: if we impose a flight ban, you can still come from Paris by bus if you come from India. But that is not possible, because of the measure that France will introduce from tomorrow. Mr Van Dissel did not know that this morning. Of course you can, but I'm a little concerned about that. There was a fuss in Belgium tonight because of a group of students coming, some of whom were tested positively on the Indian variant and which Belgium hopes will be okay, because they are in quarantine. In reply to written questions, you indicate that two infections have already been detected in the Netherlands. When it comes to keeping it out, I wonder if we're doing the right thing right now. My question is therefore the following. If there are eight cases with Janssen out of 7 million people and the EEA says you can pierce, we will not do so as a precaution, because we are very careful. Does it make sense that you're letting the flights continue right now? You can also say that you don't do it as a precaution. I hope to hear from the Minister that he is not waiting for the RIVM to come up with something, but that he will agree with the RIVM that he can send us a letter on Monday, that he will ensure that there has been consultation with France, with the United Kingdom and, preferably, with other countries that are taking measures, so that we really know why these countries are doing so and whether we could not do so better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u416	I'll send you a letter if there's any news. I have just promised that to Mr Heerma. For a moment, this is a very strange comparison, with Janssen. This is about a vaccine that you give to healthy people with a very rare, yet very serious side effect with potentially severe disability or even mortality. That is a very different story than wanting to keep out of a virus mutation with a flight ban, which can also come in in other ways. The Netherlands is not hermetically closed, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u417	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u418	It's definitely a different story, because it's two completely different things. It is just that during a pandemic we say that we are very careful, with all kinds of good reasons, and say that we are still looking at it to see when there is news. I wonder if that's wise. We've been in this movie before, where eventually there was a flight ban, that other countries were earlier and that you think afterwards: if we had set it up earlier, we could have prevented some introductions. The Brazilian and the African variant finally came here and I believe that the Brazilian variant is now also a bit on the rise. Is that what we want? I think that's the question you need to ask. Then I think: better safe than sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u419	Sure. But in this type of instrument, you always have a weight of proportionality. That proportionality is related to the hazard setting. That's why you need to make that proportional weighting. We will debate this next week. We have the quarantine obligation for people who are travelling. We don't do generics. You do this for high-risk areas, areas you don't know enough about, or areas where a variant is present, for which you are afraid it might come to the Netherlands. That's why you have a test obligation and a quarantine obligation. So you have a double lock on the door. We have that double lock in front of the gate anyway, because we have a double test obligation, and we have an entry ban for people outside Schengen. So only EU resident could come to the Netherlands. Again, very willing to add a flight ban, if deemed proportionate on the basis of objective data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u420	Thank you. That's what you said. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u421	I understand the Minister's distinction between known risks and unknown risks. But there is cause for concern, I think. In reply to Mr Paternotte, the Minister refers a number of times to a law that will be dealt with next week. Then the question is asked whether the Minister is willing to send a letter, and then he gives the answer: if there is anything new to report. But can we not just agree that we will receive a letter on the latest state of affairs prior to that legal process? The Minister himself refers to that legal treatment two or three times. In that case, the information available at that time is always known to come with something of the RIVM standard on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u422	Sure. I think that's very good. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u423	I would ask the Minister to answer all the questions, then we can start with the second term. I think that's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u424	It has been asked whether more priority can be given to education. I sincerely believe that we give a great deal of priority to education. Can the 1.5 meter in secondary education be released? Not now, but hopefully as soon as possible. However, we cannot do this until it is safe. At the moment we have a very high level of contamination in the Netherlands, so I do not think that this is the time to let go of that 1.5 meter. But we'll ask the OMT when they can. At the same time as the request for an opinion on step 2, i.e. before 3 May, we will also ask this question. I think that was a question from Mr Van der Staaij. What do we do about long covid? We have C-support. This club started its work on 1 October to help patients who have more than three months of complaints in all areas of life. That doesn't just have to be a question of concern. It may also be that you become disabled, that you may have to change your home or even lose your home because you can't pay the rent, or whatever. C-support can help in all domains of life. That's a very nice form of support. In addition, a multidisciplinary hand delivery was made through ZonMw for the treatment and guidance of patients with persistent symptoms. There's a fee for paramedical care. You were informed on 16 June 2020. You have also recently been briefed on the implementation of the Marijnissen and Others motion, which calls for two changes to the Paramedical Recovery Scheme. There will be an extension of that arrangement before the summer. Then it's paramedical support. In addition, we are considering with ZonMw whether additional research should be started. In anticipation, ZonMw will take stock of the nature and extent of the ongoing complaints. So we're working on it. Then there's Mrs Simons' one question. Actually, the nicest question. If I have to put the numbers in a row, the estimate at the moment is based, among other things, on Sanquin research into people who donate blood, that the accumulated zero immunity is currently present in about four million people. So about four million people probably went through that infection and built up antibodies. Is that what they're immune to? That is a very harsh statement, because re-contamination is reported with some regularity. And you don't know if you've built enough protection against all variants. In addition, antibody titres may also decrease. So the protection can decrease over time. But if you formulate it if the number of people who have built up something of protection along the way of an infection at least, it's estimated to be about four million. That's the first thing. Secondly, tomorrow we are likely to trigger the 5,000 000th shot. We can divide that into about four million first pricks and one million second pricks. I'm gonna let go of the million second shots, 'cause they're not people anymore. So then it is four million people with protection who have been built up thanks to vaccination, and four million people who have built up protection thanks to an infection. But of course, these groups can also overlap. However, we do not know that for sure. We don't know about all the people who've been through an infection that they've been through an infection. They often don't know that either. Now let's assume that this group is not 8 million, but 1 million overlaps. Then you're looking at 7 million people who've built up protection. Are they immune? I think that is a very harsh statement, because re-infection remains possible, even after vaccination. Vaccination often does not protect 100% against infection. It often protects 100% against hospitalization and certainly against mortality, but not against infection. So I would not call it immune, but I would say that some 7 million people have built up protection. Is there sterile immunity? Can they no longer infect others? No, you can't say that, because we don't know that. The estimates are that it certainly has a transmission limiting effect, but that it would not play any role in the transfer is highly unlikely. In short, probably around 7 million out of 17 million Dutch people have built up proper protection, either because they have experienced the infection themselves, or because they have had at least one vaccination. That means we're right where we are, also epidemiologically. The sum total is that there is a decent level of protection in society. That's why we're starting to get over the peak. Unfortunately, it is not because of our exemplary behaviour in recent weeks that some people do, but certainly not because of the protection that has been built up among the population. We have to deal with this very carefully. We certainly can't let the reins be celebrated. We must take the steps very carefully because there is still a considerable margin of uncertainty. With regard to this accumulated serum immunity, we can see that in other countries, for example in Germany and France, estimates of the number of people who have experienced infection are much lower. The strange thing is that, although you do not want people to experience an infection because they may be damaged for a very long time or because there is a very serious illness, every week some 160,000 people are added to the pool of people who have built up something of immunity. So the crazy thing is that the high number of infectiouss is what you don't really want, because that's what you want down there as a relative advantage that these people are building up protection. That also helps to protect others. This means that we are increasingly protected. Fortunately, mainly due to vaccination, but also because people are experiencing this infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u425	Thank you. Then I would like to invite Members for their second term, starting with Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for all the answers. A lot has been exchanged about the step we're going to take next week. It is an exciting step and not without risk, but it is not an unacceptable risk in the eyes of our group. We're gonna take a little space. Not enough to do everything we'd like, because we just can't do that right now. My group welcomes the commitment that the cabinet will look for step 2 of the open plan where there is room for the catering industry, particularly as regards the opening hours of the terraces in the evening and in the morning. If it is possible, of course, both of them, but I would like to stress once again that these possibilities should also be considered separately, so whether the cup of coffee can be made in the morning, if later in the evening the late bitterball, as the Prime Minister said, cannot be done. Mr. Chairman. Just as we closely monitor the levels of contamination and the figures in hospitals, we must also do so with the practical effects of regulating the terraces and shops. Does that work? Could it be more practical or different, but just as safe and responsible? My appeal to the cabinet is to stay in conversation with the shops and the catering entrepreneurs. So next week there will be a first cautious step. That is exciting and we are taking a risk, but I am confident that we will all handle the space responsibly, for the care, for the entrepreneurs and for each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u427	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u428	Thank you, Mr President. We have gone into the debate with a number of important points. We are pleased that the Minister has promised that we will not only use mRNA vaccines for the long-term strategy. That is exactly what we found. I listened very carefully to the Minister's answer to my questions about AstraZeneca and what the GPs stand for now. That's a very difficult discussion. I have listened carefully and I am pleased that the Minister has made a commitment that general practitioners cannot be held liable if, exceptionally, they are given AstraZeneca in close consultation with the patient. I hope that will provide a perspective for the general practitioners who are now facing this difficult situation. Mr. Chairman. A more difficult debate, I think, is the flight ban. We actually think that you should set that up now, because we see that some other countries are already doing so. However, we have difficulty in saying that as a House of Representatives we should set it up, because we have always done so at the time when RIVM asked for it. As far as we are concerned, that was often too late. I do not think it is encouraging in this respect that Mr Van Dissel was not aware this morning of the fact that France has already taken this measure. So again the appeal to the Minister to make it really clear to us next week in the current state of affairs whether he is prepared to impose that flight ban and what the advice is at that time. I ask him to look very closely at what other countries are doing, because we are concerned about this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, another cry of hearts. I've tweeted a few times in the last week that people can apply for vaccination. I've noticed that people say a lot of times: I'm so glad you tweeted, because I didn't know my birth year was up. Of course I like to hear that, but at the same time I think: there has to be a bigger megaphone to make it clear that people can make that appointment online. We need to make sure that no one finds out a few weeks later or at least too late that it was actually his turn, because we need to vaccinate as many people as possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u429	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u430	Mr. Chairman. A number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to open the terraces as of 28 April but applies all kinds of restrictions such as: limited opening between 12.00 and 18.00 hours, mandatory reservation for up to two persons unless of the same household, up to two persons per table, 1.5 meters or cough screen, mandatory seating, leaving contact details, up to 50 guests and no entertainment;]] [[calls on the government to release the restrictions on terraces, because the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil and therefore it is always better to meet outside rather than inside,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the one-and-a-half meter rule and fines in the open air,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to return to the old normal in nursing homes with a vaccination rate of more than 80% and to allow the caregivers to decide whether they still want to wear personal protective equipment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to spend the EUR 925 million it intends to spend on testing society to increase the number of ic-beds, intensives and ic-careers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to give a different vaccine to those over 60 years of age who do not want to be vaccinated with the AstraZeneca vaccine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1136]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1137]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1138]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1139]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u431	That too is partly on behalf of Van Haga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u432	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two directors for their first-term response and for their commitments. I will start with the flight ban, because I do have a bit of the same feeling as Mr Paternotte. I am also concerned that we should have done it earlier in a few weeks' time. At the same time, I also understand that it has big consequences if you do it when there's no reason to do it. But I think it is therefore important that the promised letter at least explains why it may not be done. Mr Paternotte feels that it is not happening because Mr Van Dissel was not aware that France did. But if the Minister gives that explanation, the Chamber can also consider what the pluses and the loves have been. I hope, therefore, that the letter will be able to clarify this, because then it can also be taken into account in next week's legislative consultation. I have one question from the first period that I do not think has been answered, or I have missed the answer; then I ask the Prime Minister to repeat the answer. At the end of my first term, I referred to Mr Dassen's speech last week, the letter on this matter and the fact that the government is very reluctant to use NL alert. Just when the cabinet wants to keep its finger on the wrist in relaxations and you see that things are going wrong somewhere, such a NL alert can help. I would like to hear from the cabinet or consider using NL-alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u434	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can you lower the seat again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u436	We're going to change the order of speakers, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u437	I think that's an excellent idea. Then Mr Heerma will come a little later. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pressure on hospitals is still high and caregivers are concerned that the influx of corona patients will increase due to the announced relaxations;]] [[considers that public health and individual fundamental rights should prevail over economic interests;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone further opening of shops until there is more epidemiological space and to fully financially compensate entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u438	Oh, yeah, let's get used to it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an unknown number of self-employed persons were found to have failed to comply with the requirements in the case of ex post checks, whereas the application did;]] [[noting that due to the high speed with which the Tozo was rigged, there was "wrong communication" between the Ministry and the executive municipalities on the requirements and criteria for the benefit;]] [[whereas a number of self-employed persons are still unknown as a result of this;]] [[calls on the Government to entrust the municipalities with the assessment of the Tozo coulant and not to recover the aid offered in those cases where the application met the requirements laid down,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u439	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party has always supported the government's corona policy. Those were sometimes very difficult decisions. But we cannot support this decision to relax. Like everyone else, we naturally crave our normal lives, but what the cabinet is doing now is irresponsible. Against the advice of the OMT, the cabinet ignores the calls of hospitals, just as the boss of the Franciscus Gasthuis in Rotterdam. In the interests of public health, therefore, the Labour Party draws a line here. We hope for the best with the cabinet, but we fear the worst. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of infections and the number of hospital and ic intakes is not yet falling and remains at a very high level, that care workers are overloaded, that hospitals close operating rooms and announce withdrawal stops and even the critically planned care cannot be carried out everywhere;]] [[Whereas the OMT strongly recommends that the step 1 facilitations be carried out only after it has been established that the peak is indeed behind us and not already relaxing on the plateau;]] [[Calls on the Government to start the facilitations announced before 28 April only when there is a decrease of at least 10% over the current seven-day average of the number of new ic and hospital admissions;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a weekly review of the epidemiological situation and to review the possibility of easing it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u440	Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs are hit hard. Horeca and shopkeepers...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u441	Before proceeding, there is an interruption of your motion by Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u442	It's a very clear question. Does the Labour Party say that step one is off? Or does the Labour Party say that part of step 1 is off? One of the measures in step 1 will start on 26 April. If the motion says "it will go ahead," then the PvdA apparently says that despite the OMT opinion some of the relaxations can go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u443	Just a moment, if Mr. Heerma will allow it. He talks about the opening of higher education. Students are allowed to attend physical education one day a week. That decision is not part of step 1. That decision was submitted to us by the Cabinet last week. We have not tabled a motion to that effect. I would therefore like to say to Mr Heerma that the motion says 'delay step 1 and make it subject to the opinion of the OMT'. I looked into it very closely. That opening on 26 April was announced last time and is not seen as step 1. I brought the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u444	I have here the open plan as it was sent around last week. There's "step 1" and under step 1 there's a list. Part of that list is higher education. That is simply stated in the open plan as it was sent last week. The letter also lists step 1 in which it is mentioned. There is only another date, namely the 26th. Then I would say, if big words were used as "unaccountable" and "it is a shame that the OMT's advice is ignored": that opinion is about step 1. The open plan is part of step 1, so the Labour Party does exactly the same as they blame the Cabinet, only for part of step 1. But it's just part of the open plan, step 1. It was sent around last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u445	I didn't use the word "shame." I am also making a point of this, because this decision by the Labour Party not to support this step on 28 April has not been taken lightly. We have thought about this very carefully and for a long time. I also know that I probably won't win the popularity prize, but that's not why I'm here. I call on the Cabinet to follow OMT's advice. I say again to Mr Heerma: we have looked very closely at what is covered by step 1 and what measures are being proposed to bring it into effect on 28 April. I would also like to quote the Prime Minister from last week's debate: 26 April was not characterised by the Prime Minister as an 'easiness' either. I think he called it "some kind of correction." I would therefore like to say to Mr Heerma: there is what is in the motion. Once again, we did not do that lightly and looked up very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u446	Well, here's the thing. I do have active memories of this. The Prime Minister talked about an adjustment where it was about the bso. The bso's opened independently of step one, because it wasn't relaxation. That's what this verdict was about. Both in the letter and in the open plan and in the debate, opening colleges has always been part of step 1. The PvdA now chooses to do so, and with that also for that part... It's okay, isn't it? It's okay. You can say we do this in spite of the OMT. But we should not evoke the image as if it is not part of step 1 of the plan, because it is in the letter, has been exchanged in the debate and is also in the open plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u447	Again, we've really looked into it very precisely. The motion states that we cannot support the relaxations on 28 April, step 1, given the figures. That was not done lightly. It is up to Mr Heerma to consider this with his group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u448	Do you have a new, different question? Yes. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u449	I absolutely believe that Mrs Ploumen has not looked lightly at this. Still, there's something I don't quite understand. When the one-visitor scheme was introduced, the Labour Party was against it. The Labour Party thought that went too far and wanted more visitors to stay welcome. It's coming off now, and now you're against it. Do I understand why you are now saying that we should have supported this visitor arrangement at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u450	What the Labour Party is saying is that with the figures as they are now, we cannot support the government's planned decision to relax. That includes all the measures. It's true. For example, we have previously supported a motion which stated: if justified, can the terraces open? Yes, of course. I'm still in favour of that, too. My point is that we now find, also of course on the basis of the opinion of the OMT that we are following, that the package that is now before us, a large package of relaxations, is irresponsible given the situation it is experiencing. I say to Mr Paternotte: of course, none of these measures are nice, not for you, not for me and not for the whole of the Netherlands. But once again, in the interests of public health, we say: follow OMT's advice now and do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u451	Mr Paternotte, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u452	I believe that the OMT has previously advised in the interests of public health to set up such a visitor scheme and then the Labour Party did not agree. Then it is strange that you are actually saying: we are now, with retroactive effect, in agreement, because it cannot be removed. I haven't quite figured that out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u453	I repeat that the situation is as it is now... I do not think that anyone had foreseen it in recent months, that we would find ourselves in a situation where the caregivers desperately ask us 'don't do it, we can't do it here' and in which many of you have said it, 'planable care cannot be done anymore'. We never thought we'd end up in that. So we have weighed that, the call from the care, the situation as we see it now in the hospitals and the advice from the OMT. Hence the motion. It is also up to Mr Paternotte's group to weigh up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u454	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is about people who are homeless or homeless, because for them the emergency shelter stops. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that from 12 May the emergency shelter for homeless people will be completely discontinued despite the fact that most of the corona measures still apply;]] [[noting that this affects at least 500 people who end up on the streets without any form of shelter and that this also poses a danger to public health;]] [[believes that no human should live involuntarily on the streets;]] [[Calls on the Government to remain in talks with municipalities on support to non-right holders for as long as the lockdown applies;]] [[calls on the government to provide additional support to municipalities to accompany non-right holders to work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u456	Then there's the second motion. I'm gonna have to get used to it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission has started negotiations on a third contract with Pfizer/BioNTech for 1.8 billion doses for the period 2021 to 2023;]] [[noting that the European Union has bought millions of vaccines, but there are many countries that do not yet have access to vaccines and that this is a risk to global health;]] [[Whereas no pharmaceutical company has yet shared its knowledge in C-TAP;]] [[Calls on the Government to actively engage in all further negotiations on COVID-19 technologies at EU level to ensure that pharmaceutical products share their knowledge in C-TAP and inform the Chamber thereof;]] [[calls on the Government to lay down in future contracts the freedom to export or donate vaccines to third countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Paternotte, Mr Ploumen, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Bikker and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u457	Excuse me. We had asked in the first term about the position of GroenLinks with regard to the relaxation. Since you opened up and were prepared to convince you, I am very curious to see what the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u458	As I pointed out in my questions, the opening of education, which is partly reopened, is very important for us, as is the curfew. We are going to discuss it shortly, if there is a suspension, in the group, but I would very well imagine that we are going to vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u459	To be honest, the intention is not to vote today. This isn't a regular voting day. We actually want to do it on Tuesdays. Because next week we also have votes from the WHOs, I wanted to vote next Thursday. At least that's the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u460	Then we'll have a little longer to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u461	I understand that plan, but our motion cannot, of course, wait until then, precisely because it is about measures that would come into effect next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u462	I can imagine. First the second deadline and then I am going to take stock of whether there is a majority for the vote tonight, because it is necessary because it is not a regular voting day. I give the floor to Mr Van Haga. We'll do the second term first and then we'll see how we deal with the votes. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u463	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that operators in the event sector can only avail themselves of the guarantee fund if they had cancellation insurance for the event in question in the two years preceding the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas this requirement means that hardly anyone can claim the guarantee fund;]] [[calls on the Government to waive the requirement for cancellation insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u464	You're gonna have to stop the time right now, or I'm gonna get in trouble. Normally, you say "thank you."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u465	I usually say "thank you." Then let me say "thank you."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u466	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a need for clarity with regard to the TVL for quarter 3 and quarter 4 among entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the government to clarify as soon as possible the plan regarding the allocation of TVL in quarter 3 and quarter 4,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the terraces will open again from 12.00 to 18.00 from 28 April;]] [[Whereas this does not affect catering undertakings;]] [[Whereas the closing time for alcohol sales is 8 p.m.;]] [[calls on the Government to allow catering companies to open their terraces from 8:00 to 8:00 p.m.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that from 28 April up to two persons from different households may sit at the same table on a terrace;]] [[Whereas the number of visitors inside has increased from one to two persons so that three people from different households can meet at home;]] [[Whereas this discrepancy cannot be explained, especially at a time when there are hardly any contaminations in the outdoor air;]] [[calls on the government to extend the number of people from different households per table to three,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Forum for Democracy rejects a test society because it is traumatising for children and cost increase for entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet, supported by a majority of the House of Representatives, is committed to a test society;]] [[Whereas it is now clear that the customer will pay €7.50 per test;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate where the costs of testing end up and to return this investigation to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1147]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1148]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1149]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u467	Well, then let me delete the last motion, because I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u468	You've got a lot of them, I'm just saying. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u469	Thank you, Mr President. I did not bring any motions, but I would like to say a few words in conclusion. I asked the Prime Minister how the Netherlands could be so behind in green investments with the corona aid money. The Prime Minister's reply was not surprising in itself, but disappointing as far as we are concerned. It would be too complex or too complicated. According to our party, no one says it's easy to escape climate change, but we simply don't have time for this kind of argument anymore. The KNMI warns that climate change can lead to global warming within nine years, above 1.5°C. The climate crisis and the corona crisis are therefore not isolated incidents. They're intimately interwoven. They are caused by the way in which man is currently dealing with the earth and nature. That is precisely why it is logical and so much needed to solve both crises in a coherent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u470	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u471	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister for reply. A couple of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a reduction in the level of risk is foreseen in the coming months from very serious to worrying and hopefully vigilant;]] [[whereas, unfortunately, the epidemiological situation may be more serious at regional or local level;]] [[Whereas it is important to keep the overall level of risk as low as possible and to contain local fireplaces;]] [[Whereas the regional approach at the time of the increasing contamination last year can provide good lessons for an efficient approach to a new situation with decreasing infections;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with the presidents of the security regions their need to use the existing legal space to adequately combat the epidemic with local measures and to put out local fireplaces, and to inform the Court in the next progress letter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u472	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the epidemiological picture of the coronavirus varies between regions and in some regions the epidemiological picture combined with the occupation of the care is very worrying;]] [[Whereas large-scale field labs are planned and this is extremely risky in these regions, taking into account the hospital capacity, possible local outbreaks and the signal given on the room for relaxation;]] [[calls on the Government to have the OMT set regional limit values in the number of infections, hospitalisations or hospitalisations;]] [[calls on the government also to rethink and at least to make smaller scale field labs in regions exceeding these limits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bikker and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u473	Mr. Chairman. Calculated risks and sharp to the wind, against the meaning of RIVM and OMT. In addition, there are no scenarios formulated, and that with a virus that is not guided and mutated. It is therefore particularly important at this stage to ensure compliance with the measures. To do that, we need support. You're gonna create a supporting surface. That is why I call once again for more attention to be paid to this issue. Communicate, take people with you. This can of course be done via the text message, but also by creating the episodes about facts versus fables, for example, so that people can ask their questions. The care workers are currently sprinting a marathon. A highly contagious Indian variant has already been detected in Belgium. I understand from Mr Paternotte that it has already been reported here in the Netherlands. The strategy of steering on ic-capacity seems unsustainable. That is why my group immediately supports Mrs Simons' motion to break off this strategy. It's all hands on deck. As long as the world isn't vaccinated, it will stay that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u474	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that despite a very high vaccination rate, many nursing homes still apply strict measures despite the recent OMT advice;]] [[Whereas, in a recent opinion, the ECDC indicates that fully vaccinated persons need not distance themselves or wear a mouth cap;]] [[Whereas a relaxation of the basic measures for this group makes it easier for this group to interact and thus reduce loneliness;]] [[calls on the government to consult with nursing homes to emphasise that current relaxations are safe and responsible at a high vaccination rate;]] [[calls on the Government, following the recent ECDC opinion, to ask the OMT if further relaxations in nursing homes are possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u476	I need to talk a little faster, I see. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that psychological complaints and loneliness are greatly increasing among young people and students;]] [[noting that universities and colleges of higher education may return to education but only one day a week;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the lack of physical education and contact, mental problems are also caused by a lack of structure and excessive concentration in one environment;]] [[Whereas many event locations are still unused, universities themselves have unused large spaces and both have previously indicated that they can provide coronaproof space for students;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to investigate whether coronaproof study places can be created where students can study,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bikker, Mr Van Haga, Mr Wilders, Mr Paternotte, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Hermans, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dassen and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u477	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u478	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u479	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply and for their commitments. We support the cautious relaxations, also in the light of the broader social weighting, as expressed in the debate this evening. We've signed a number of motions. Finally, I would like to make one final point. Of course, there are always a lot of citizens watching and listening in. There was someone who was disturbed by the interesting English terms that came along, wrote that there could and should be Dutch talk and asked me: would you not only on my behalf, but also on behalf of many others, call not to use quasi-interesting English terms and expressions? So in the light of payroll, fieldlabs, pilots, applied science and so on, at least I answered this email again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u480	Fine. That also saves me the answer of a number of e-mails.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u481	Correction, chairman: "the mail," I mean, instead of "mail."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u482	The mail! Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u483	Let's get started, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the open plan distinguishes between "eating-out' and "other' hotels and restaurants;]] [[Whereas this distinction does not exist in the hospitality reality nor can it be found in the records of the CJC and the CBS;]] [[Whereas this distinction is not feasible for both entrepreneurs and enforcers, as there are a huge number of hybrid forms of catering;]] [[calls on the Government to include the catering industry as one category in the open plan;]] [[calls on the Government to improve communication on the conditions and guidelines for the opening of the catering industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that terraces of sports accommodation remain closed as of 28 April according to the open plan, while the rest of the catering industry may be "outdoor" or open;]] [[Whereas it is completely unclear why different rules should apply to terraces of sports accommodation than to other "outdoor" hotels;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the same rules for terraces of sports accommodation as for all other outdoor resorts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more entrepreneurs are losing confidence in the cabinet's corona approach;]] [[calls on the Government, following on from the request of ONL, to present as soon as possible a national recovery plan for the catering industry, with explicit attention being paid to the extension of the aid packages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1155]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1156]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u484	And the last one: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers are not always able to take a vaccine by appointment due to work pressure and irregular working hours;]] [[calls on the Government to provide care personnel with the possibility to be vaccinated voluntarily without an appointment at the designated locations after completion of the vaccination of 60+ and 18-60-year-olds with indication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u485	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u486	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u487	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have three motions, so I guess I don't have to talk that fast. And the first, for that the work has been done by the PvdA's colleagues. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the interests of public health and the economy, maximum control of the virus will be necessary;]] [[Whereas aid may also be necessary in autumn to protect jobs and businesses;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the support packages for jobs and businesses until at least the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas cancer patients are at increased risk of thrombosis and other blood clotting problems due to chemotherapy or other heavy medication;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether it is possible for these cancer patients in the 60-64 age group to be offered a RNA vaccine on a voluntary basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Action Line 1 of the Social and Mental Welfare and Lifestyle Support Package has been developed into the Welfare and Youth Support Package;]] [[Whereas the social and mental well-being and lifestyle support package also provides funds for combating loneliness among older people;]] [[Whereas figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau show that during the first wave of the corona crisis loneliness among 75-plussers increased by 8%;]] [[whereas older people are more likely to suffer from anxiety, nervousness, stress and lack of perspective;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a support package for older people for the next Corona debate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1159]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1160]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kuzu, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u488	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u489	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u490	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that so-called field lab experiments focussing on the behaviour of visitors at events and the effect on the number of infections with COVID-19;]] [[noting that the considerations, for example for number of participants, are not clear in the experiments mentioned above;]] [[Whereas it is important that these costly experiments provide the right information to be able to respond to people's behaviour and their impact on the number of infections at events;]] [[whereas as a Lower House we can only carry out our controlling task if we can test the reports of the experiments against the research assignment;]] [[invites the Cabinet to send the Chamber by 27 April 2021 all research questions and research plans of the field lab activities already authorised and to forward the reports of the field lab activities to the Chamber for information within two weeks of the date of those activities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u491	The second motion is for our hardworking truck drivers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as of 28 April, the Cabinet intends to introduce relaxations in the corona policy;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, albeit limited, can eat and drink again on cafes and restaurants terraces and can shop and do more fun shopping;]] [[Whereas the supply of this food, of these drinks and of all goods brought to us can be thanks to our hard-working truck drivers;]] [[whereas transport continues day and night, and without transport everything stands still;]] [[Whereas road restaurants and truckers' restaurants without regular guests, as happened in France and Germany for example, can be considered as business restaurants and thus open as such, as our business restaurant in the Lower House and other business restaurants, are open;]] [[noting that, despite the relaxations, the road restaurants remain closed;]] [[noting that truck drivers are systematically forgotten and still spend their working days and nights in solitude in a small cabin, without a table and chair and without shower facilities, which is abo-technically unacceptable;]] [[noting that the Joint Dutch Road Restaurants have written a protocol with which strictly and exclusively the professional driver is entitled to eat inside them;]] [[noting that truck drivers also need social contacts in order to remain mentally healthy and thus continue to provide us with our goods, food and drinks;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to make an exception for road restaurants and truckers' restaurants, so that those professional drivers can, on presentation of their driver's pass, allow them to eat and, where possible, shower the corona measures;]] [[and continues to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u492	You promised me last time to change the end of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u493	I said, "Let's move on to the order of the day."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u494	Well, okay. If you end up like this, we'll be friends again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u495	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u496	Look, all right! And I'd like to ask you to take a closer look at the time next time, because you walked a little. I hear the Minister say something about the number of shots that could have been made during the reading of the last motion. The minister thinks in terms of pricking by minutes. It's possible. I call Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said in my first term, it is time to make drastic choices. Hence the next motion, partly on behalf of Mr Dassen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has adopted a strategy that allows a maximum number of people to become ill until the last hospital bed is occupied;]] [[noting that even Wob documents showed that cabinet policy was based on building "kudde immunity" through as many infections as possible;]] [[Whereas this strategy has not led to the desired 'cuddle immunity', has caused many (long-term) sick and dead and has seriously harmed the economy;]] [[calls on the government to break off this strategy, and to limit the virus to its purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u498	Mr. Chairman. I want all my motions to be voted on, because they are all about the catering industry and next Wednesday. So if you do, fine. But then I also want all my motions to be voted on. So my proposal would be to vote on everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u499	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, only the urgent motions will be voted on because they relate to what is scheduled for next week. So we have to vote on Mrs Ploumen's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u500	We are happy to vote next week on the motions which have no urgency. But that doesn't apply to the PvdA's motion. Mr Wilders points out that this does not apply to his motions either. We've filed a motion on the stores. We would therefore like to put it to the vote this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u501	Thank you. Then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u502	Mr. Chairman. I think everyone cares about their own motions. I think my motions are important, too. So let's just vote on everything. That doesn't take so much time at all. We can finish that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u503	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps some groups would indeed like to have more extensive consultations. I can well imagine that we will at least vote on the motions which are urgent and have an entry date by 29 April. That's what we did before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u504	Mr. Chairman. I support what Mr Van der Staaij says. Some complicated motions have been tabled, on which I would like to have some coordination with the group. So I understand that we are voting on motions that are really urgent, but rather not on all motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u505	If I conclude this now with "today only vote on the urgent motions," so about the motions that include a date when it comes to next week? That's kind of the... I'm just gonna make a call to people who want to vote. It is very nice, as with other debates, to know that earlier, also in connection with the preparation. It is nice if people also let the Registrar know, so that we can take that into account when planning. It is also a wish of the Chamber to vote at regular times. It's not today. So it is also a request to take that into account. But I think that's how I'm going to conclude it, looking at the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u506	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make it clear which motions we are going to vote on and which are not going to vote on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u507	It's about the motions in which there's a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u508	I think that a lot of motions are about whether or not there should be enlargement next week, etc. So I would suggest that each group should tell you which motions it wishes to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u509	I think that is a very good proposal. The second proposal, as far as I am concerned, is that the parties should indicate which motions are urgent. Then we'll vote on that. I think there's a majority for that. Then I shall suspend the sitting for ten minutes, so that the rulers have time to prepare their appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u510	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u511	Mr President, thank you. The answer to both of Mrs Hermans' questions is 'yes'. We look again at the opening hours in step 2, and as far as the practical elaboration of the rules and conditions is concerned, if adaptation makes work easier, we will do so. So the answer to those two questions is yes. The question by Mr Heerma of the CDA from the first term as to whether NL-Alert would be a thought. We took a good look at it. I'm sorry I didn't take that in the first period, but so far we tend not to do so, because the purpose of the tool is to get people to take action acutely. Of course, public communication around COVID-19 is not designed to take immediate action in an acute emergency. NL-Alert is actually not meant as a means for public campaigns, but for urgent situations: a child who has run away or a serious danger. In this sense, it is too heavy a means for a message that can also be delivered differently. We think it would be better, for example, to place text carts in strategic locations; of those matrix boards and so on. We are afraid, if you use NL-Alert to do so, that this can be experienced negatively. When that thing goes off, you hear a loud alarm sound, which is also audible in silent mode, as we all know. This may impair the impact of and support for the device, which is so important to engage in a real acute immediate emergency. All things considered, I think we should be very cautious about that, but you can't rule it out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u512	Does the Prime Minister indicate that the experience gained last year was mainly negative? It was used once last year in such a situation. Or does he indicate, in line with the letter: it could go wrong because people are stretching compliance, so that the means could then be used in extreme need, but are reluctant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u513	It's not gone. Of course, in extreme need, we'll certainly do it. But it doesn't belong to the standard instrumentary. But I don't think that's the idea either. In that sense, it's true. Well, then it's a good thing that in the first term I might have made people a little too concerned about the scaling-down of care. That's what I was reminded of. There is currently no question that care that should not be caught up within six weeks at the latest is in danger. That'll keep an eye on the inspection. I would like to add that to the debate I had with Wilders and others in the first term. That's an important nuance. I seemed a little more negative in my response. It is of course very worrying, I agree, but fortunately it is not that bad. Then there is Mrs Van Esch's question about the work of employees of a meat processing company in Apeldoorn. On Monday 19 April seven employees from the cold side of that company in Apeldoorn were tested positively. Later this week another positive tested employee came in. For the company this was reason to test all employees too quickly this morning. When it turned out that a large part of the staff tested was positive. This has been contacted by the company with the NVWA and with the Quality Assessment Animal Sector, KDS. NVWA stopped the supply of live animals and the regional manager of the KDS went to the location. It was found that positive tested employees walked through the company to extract their personal items from lockers and locker rooms. Both the employees of the KDS and the employees of NVWA were taken back from the company and the supervision was stopped at 10 a.m. With that, there was no more battle at the company. The negative tested employees have completed their work so that they can be picked up again when the company proves to be able to open up safely. Emergency consultations were held between the GGD, the security region, the municipality and the NVWA on the situation of the company in Apeldoorn. The Inspection SZW will also be informed. Mrs Van Esch also asked about the questions that remain about slaughterhouses in the first period. There are two sets of parliamentary questions from Mrs Van Esch. We're answering that. They're coming soon. The most recent developments are included in the upcoming covid-progress letter. Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u514	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u515	A little faint, perhaps it happened by mistake, but you promised me that you would come back to my motion which was adopted on 4 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u516	Sorry. That's right. You're absolutely right, Mr. Wilders. The plan for catching up. To ensure that the deferred care is made up as responsibly as possible, Tamara van Ark, the Minister for Medical Care, is currently working on a plan with the NZa, hospitals, independent clinics, insurers and healthcare professionals. The aim is to make up for delayed care as quickly as possible and to inform the people concerned as best as possible. As soon as this plan is complete, she will send it to the Chamber. It is expected to be in the second half of May. It stated in February that it was its intention to have the plan ready in April, but it did express a great deal of reservations, given the pressure from the third wave that is under way. That in response to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u517	Indeed, the Prime Minister is right. She said earlier in mid-April, but that's going to be mid-May. Once again, perhaps you can tell the Minister that the sooner it can be done, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u518	Sure. I'll be sure to. I think she's following the debate, because I got a text message after the first time that I did well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u519	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u520	Not you. There's got to be a difference. You're from that department, not me. The motion in part No. 1136 by Mr Wilders on the terraces, with reference to the debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1137. I must dissuade them, because maintaining them is the end of the game and the fines are part of it. The motion in part No. I should like to dissuade Mr Wilders from 1139. It's not or-or, it's and-and. We want to focus both on the opening up of society and the strengthening of intensive care. For this, 500 million has been invested in the last year for 550 extra ic-beds and 1,100 extra clinical beds and the additional training of hundreds of nurses, so that they can join as buddy in the covid departments, both in intensive care and clinical. In the motion in part No. 1141, submitted by the SP, is asked to postpone the opening of shops until more space is available. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. We are opting for cautious steps of coherent relaxation that lie in several areas. I don't want to get one part out of that right now. The motion in part No. 1142 is about the Tozo. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. The Minister of Social Affairs cannot ask municipalities to act in a coulant manner. By the way, he will soon send a comprehensive letter to the Chamber about the whole situation around the Tozo in general. The motion in part No. 1143 I'd like to dissuade. We have held the debate on this respectfully to each other. I have to say, in the context of the debate that took place with Mr Heerma, that step 1 is one and indivisible, to say it in a bit more biblical terms. The motion in part No. 1146, tabled by the Forum for Democracy, I would advise against. A possible requirement has been discussed with the sector for events that have been in existence for a long time. So, on balance, I'd like to discourage the motion. I would ask Mr Van Haga to make the motion he has tabled in respect of item No. 1147. A letter has been promised on this point. Perhaps I could ask Mr Van Haga to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u521	I am looking at Mr Van Haga for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u522	When's the letter coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u523	I have mentioned earlier that this letter, which is generally about the situation in quarter 3 and quarter 4, is scheduled for mid-May. I think it's gonna be a little late. So that won't be mid-May, but I think third week of May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u524	Yeah, but that's not for another month.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u525	I told you last time. The troika is looking at aid packages, corporate debt positions, corporate equity positions and possibly stock building. In this context, all existing schemes are put back on the screen. I was talking about mid-May, the last information I have from the three gentlemen is that it will take a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u526	Are you prepared to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u527	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u528	At the request of Mr Van Haga, I propose his motion (25295, No. 1147). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u529	The motion in part No. 1148 I should like to advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. I would advise against 1149, even with reference to the debate. The relaxation of the home visit is motivated by the profoundity of the limitation of the home visit, especially for single residents. Of course, that's different when you visit the terrace. So in that sense, we do not see any discrepancy either. This is in addition to what I said in the first term. The motion in part No. 1151, tabled by ChristenUnion and CDA, will be judged by Chamber, if I may see it in the motion as we discussed it in the debate. The motion in part No. 1154 is about the coronaproof creation of study sites. I can, of course, argue with that, but that is a hopeless struggle, given all the signatories to the motion. The motion is also good in terms of content, so the motion gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1155 I'd like to dissuade. The distinction is simply to be made in the scheme. This is also relevant in relation to the risks of infection. A pub where more or less drinks is at risk is higher than a restaurant. So I'd like to dissuade the motion. The motion in part No. 1156 is not recommended. There can't be an audience at sports competitions and trainings right now. We do not want a third half either. Then the motion to part No. 1157. We are not going to make a separate plan for a particular sector. The recovery plan that is coming, which I also spoke to Mr Van Haga, is aimed at the whole economy and is about how we deal with the continuation of the aid packages and all other aspects. My request is for the motion in part No. 1159. I ask the authors, Mrs Den Haan and Mrs Ploumen, whether the motion can be held. I see Mrs Ploumen nodding yes and also Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u530	At the request of Mrs Den Haan, I propose her motion (25295, No. 1159). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u531	Then the motion to part No. 1163 from triple B over truck drivers. I do not wish to recommend this motion, because we cannot do that now. Then the motion to part No. 1164 by Mrs Simons. By the way, I apologise to Mrs Simons for my unnecessary first-term irritation. Sorry about that. But in substance, I must discourage the motion. We do not think that there are the right considerations. Kudde immunity is not a goal. But of course we have just discussed this in detail in the debate. I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u532	Thank you for giving me this moment to express my appreciation for the remark you just made about the remark you made earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u533	Thank you. That is what I hope to have dealt with all the questions and motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u534	Thank you. I call the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u535	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the motion in part No. 1138, in which the government is asked to return to the old normal in nursing homes with a vaccination rate of more than 80% and to let the caregivers decide whether they still want to wear personal protective equipment. I don't think we should. That would be very careless. Back to the old normal can of course only if it is justified. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1140 I also advise against. I refer not so much to this debate but to the previous debate. At that time, we discussed this in detail. This isn't wise. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 1144 on emergency care for non-righteous persons. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1145 from GroenLinks asks the government to actively focus on the sharing of vaccines at EU level. That fits in with the stakes we choose. We have just discussed this in more detail. I would like to leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1150, which asks to investigate where the costs of testing fall. That motion is quite full of all kinds of assumptions that are not entirely correct, such as betting on a test society and so on. I advise against this motion. I would like to mention a few more things. In the first period I seem to have said 1 August where that should be 1 July, as the starting date for the own contribution. I'd like to make that right here. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 1152. It calls on the government to reconsider regional limit values for large-scale field labs. That's not so easy to implement. The field labs are set up in such a way that they're safe and safe. That is why it is not necessary. I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 1153 is the request for the government to consult with nursing homes to emphasise that current relaxations at a high vaccination rate are safe and justified, and to ask the OMT if further relaxations in nursing homes are possible. Apart from the ECDC opinion, I would like to do so. I'm going to leave this to the Chamber. The cooperation between D66 and JA21 is something to cheer on anyway. That too stirs at the late evening. The motion in part No. 1158 asks for a solution to a problem that does not exist, so I advise against it. Then the motion to part No. 1160 of 50PLUS. We have asked for detailed advice from the Health Council. We have also asked whether it is necessary to clarify this in the Astra Group of 60-64, but the Health Council says that this is really not necessary. Then we should not do that either, because in the implementation it is very complicated. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 1161, which calls on the government to draw up a support package for older people. The good news is that's already there, so that won't be necessary anymore. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1162 of Triple B. That was news to me. I'm not going to recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u536	I have serious objections to this, just as the Prime Minister, Mr Triple B, said, you are going to do it again. I have made an argument here with an appeal or you want to stop that contempt. I think what you're doing right now is really disrespectful. I demand that that be taken back and that you pronounce our name as normal, not just tonight, but for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u537	It is by no means my intention to insult Mrs van der Plas or anything else. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's the BoerCitizen Movement, three times B, as it says here. I do not advise the motion, and I hope that you will not fail to point that out to me. What we do do, but in a different form than it says here, is send the research results to the Chamber. You already have the results of phase one research. Phase two comes later than you ask, because that's not gonna work next week. Phase two is running at the moment and the results really come later. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u538	I'll just read out the motions we're about to vote on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u539	Although I had not tabled any motions, I did put a question to the Minister. Last Tuesday he said at the press conference that people could be vaccinated from 1952 and earlier, while at that time 1954 and 1953 were already open. It's important that people find out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u540	Correct. That question has indeed been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u541	Sure. I'll see if we can communicate that more massively. That runs through the RIVM and the GGD, but I'll see if we can communicate it more massively. It also helps if Mr Paternotte's Twitter account contributes, because he has more than 20,000 followers. And that could be a little bit more now that I've been advertising it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u542	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-14.u543	Thank you for selecting the urgent motions. We're going to vote on the other motions next week. We are going to vote on the following motions: the motions on the items Nos. 1136 to 1138, the motions on items Nos. 1140, 1141 and 1143, motions for resolutions on items Nos. 1146 to 1150 and the motions on items Nos. 1156, 1157, 1162 and 1163. Reading this looks like the bingo! But I've been asked to read the songs. I propose that we suspend for 20 minutes, because it is necessary to complete the voting list. There was also a need to discuss a few motions.
