ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on Voorhang. WEC stands for Law on Centers of Expertise. I welcome the same minister as the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. The first speaker is Mr Van Meenen of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr President, thank you. Last week, of course, was a happy moment, with 500 million structural extra for salaries in primary education. This also helps special education and secondary special education, because it is still covered by primary education. We don't really want the latter, but in this case it's convenient. Mr. Chairman. The shortage of teachers strikes particularly hard at the most challenging schools. Those aren't just schools with lags. Those are also the schools in special education. However, there are signs that teachers in special education and secondary special education would be excluded when it comes to extra money for teachers in disadvantaged schools, the so-called 'work market allowance'. The Minister says that here too, as in the case of regular education, 15% of the schools with the most disadvantages receive funds. However, there is some doubt as to whether the right schools are being reached, because in the vso and so, the so-called cumi scheme is being used, which is a very old scheme, whereas in mainstream education the backward scores resulting from the CBS indicators are being used. The Minister states that the CBS indicator cannot be used in primary and secondary special education. My question is: why were the special primary education and the vso not included in the revision of the indicator for regular education at the time? The Minister sees sufficient reason to consider alternatives to that cumi scheme. He acknowledges that it is not the right course of action to apply this regulation now. Can he explain what such a solution could look like? And can the Minister send such an alternative method of determining delays in special education, similar to that in regular education, to the Chamber prior to the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. No motions have been tabled. This was also the last speaker. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Can he answer the questions immediately or does he need time for that? The Minister can answer the questions immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-14.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Van Meenen for his contribution. He combines the actuality of this moment with the arrangement. That is his right, by the way, because it is in line with it. As is well known, at the request of the Chamber of Representatives, we have even made available a Chamber's motion for a resolution of 375 million ECU to give teachers in schools who may be particularly troubled, also because of the student population, extra salary for the two years that the NPO runs. First of all, I tried to get that money to teachers and schools through what I call the royal road, namely through the collective bargaining table. We have decentralised it. They have that responsibility, so we asked them to do so. It is well known to the Chamber that, because of the fact that this was occasional money, the assignment has in fact been returned. They only wanted to do that if there was structural money. I've had to accept that. I found that, I tell you in all honesty, quite a difficult moment. You call on responsibilities that were asked by them at the time, but you did not manage to get that money to the schools by this route. At that time I had the choice to return that money to the Minister of Finance, who would have found that a pleasant gesture in itself, I suspect, or still look for another way. Honor to whom credit is due: those who did not want to settle it through the collective agreement then asked all the signatures themselves in a letter asking if I wanted to do so by means of a special arrangement. Okay, I stepped over my shadow and picked it up, because in the end I think that the teachers would become the victims of what might be a whole Hague thing, just to put it in those terms. At the end of the day, we finally found the solution, and I really do not see any reason to join in with the distribution of resources which, incidentally, we have completely revised with each other at the beginning of this cabinet period. We have 750 million euros every year. That's structural money. We have a distribution system for that. The vast majority of this money is distributed to both schools and municipalities through the CBS indicator, which has been revised. A small part of the 750 million euros, some 40 to 50 million, is distributed through the cumi scheme, because for these schools we are talking about sbo and vso as not enough data on pupils and the progress of pupils is known to connect them one-on-one to the CBS indicator. That system, which has not been controversial at all in recent years and has never been the subject of discussion, we have continued with these resources. That's the most objective way to do it. In my view, objectivity is further strengthened by the fact that we have looked very closely at the fact that the money, 15% distributed across all sectors, will eventually end up there. So far. The cumi scheme was, in itself, a subject that we have already said for a long time: it would be good to have a closer look at it, even for the longer term. Why? Because it's connected to countries. In any case, it is good to see whether the countries covered still give a good idea of what we are actually experiencing. But other scenarios are also being looked at. You have also had reports on this in recent years. If I understand Mr Van Meenen's question correctly, he also thinks this is a subject to be discussed in greater detail in the budget. Through you, Mr President, I can assure Mr Van Meenen and the Chamber that I will forward the information we have to the Chamber. I will also give an overview of the scenarios envisaged. Then perhaps, on the basis of the debate that will take place in due course, we can make choices for the longer term and so on. Apart from what we are doing now with the money for the labour market allowance, this is really how we have to do it. Sometimes it's kind of annoying when you're not on the right side of the line, so to speak. That's inevitable with allowances that you don't give generically to everyone. For the longer term, we can look at that cumi scheme. As far as I am concerned, this has been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-14.u5	Thank you, Minister. I saw Mr Van Meenen nodding in agreement. From this, I would say that this question has been answered with satisfaction. I thank the Minister. I would also like to thank the people who have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-14.u6	I shall suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m., so for an hour. Then we continue with the two-minute debate Arrangement new version AERIUS Calculator and modification nitrogen registration system.
