ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35899, Adoption of the Royal Decree of 16 August 2021, extending the duration of validity of provisions of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, simply the Adoption Act third extension period Twm covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The decisive control of the States General over the extension of the Twm. That was the purpose of the Janssen c.s. motion. and the motion-De Boer c.s. and that was the aim behind the introduction of the approval by law of the extension KB. Can you call it decisive control if the First Chamber debates and votes on it seven days before the expiry of the term by which the law is extended? Asking the question is answering him. Because for the sake of clarity, also for the viewers at home, many of whom have approached us by e-mail: we are not talking today about the extension of the Twm on 1 December, but about the extension on 1 September. And yes, in August, the government sent the law of approval to the House of Representatives without delay. It was the House of Representatives who then felt no urgency in its handling. A letter has recently been written by our Chamber to the House of Representatives about this. We hope that the next approval law will be dealt with with with greater speed, so that our control also determines something. Moreover, the slow treatment raised the question of what would legally apply if the First Chamber were to reject the Act of Approval after a subsequent extension of the Royal Decree, or even after the period for which it had been extended had expired. Is the next extension, for which the KB is already there or which has already entered, automatically cancelled because the previous one was voted off? Or does the next extension apply, because there was an applicable law at the time of the Royal Decree or the renewal? I hope it will remain a theoretical discussion, but for the sake of correct legal interpretation I would like to hear the answer, also because this question had been almost relevant. I can be brief about the need for the extension of the Twm. There was this need in September, and that need is all the more so now. Unfortunately, we still need the toolbox with measures that can be taken to combat the COOVID-19 pandemic. I note that my group is surprised at the fact that at the moment the government, while the contamination rates have never been so high and the care is completely frozen, leaves that toolbox virtually untouched and does not take any additional measures. Can the ministers explain that? What makes you think that without any additional measures aimed at limiting the infections, it will be okay? Whether to extend the toolbox with 2G or extend the application of the corona pass to non-essential stores and the workplace, we are not discussing today. This requires new legislation that we will be discussing here in the coming weeks. I can tell you that my group still has many questions about the 2G policy in particular and has some reservations about it. Mr. Chairman. We are always asking the government to look ahead to the next phase of this pandemic and even further forward, to make our society and our legislation more robust in the event of new pandemics or other disasters in the future. Because it's not the question of whether that's going to happen, it's just when. And yes, we understand that these ministers are busy fighting the crisis that we are now having and which we have been experiencing since last week. But the difference between a crisis manager and a minister or a government is that not only what is happening now is being responded to, but that if it can be done at the same time, and otherwise very soon afterwards, it will be looked forward. What went well? What went wrong? How do we ensure that we are better prepared in the future and not make the same mistakes again? If this last paragraph appears to you, that may be true. It is literally the text I made during our previous debate on 12 July. And I wasn't the only one at the time concerned about the lack of medium- and long-term plans, actually about the lack of plans in general and about making preparations to implement plans. This concern was widely shared in this Chamber. It didn't help, because once again the government seems to be robbed by the rising numbers. Again there were no plans prepared in case, and again the government is passive. Once again, the government seems to be considering possible options only after there is an OMT advice. Once again, it appears that preparations for the implementation of measures will not begin until the decision has been taken to take them. We see no scenarios, not for the long term, but also less for the short term. The contagion rates have never been this high. In the care, code black comes frightfully close. The polarisation in society is rising to unprecedented heights and the support for the corona measures is falling to unprecedented depths. We are once again in a crisis situation that calls for leadership, but the government has kept it quiet in recent weeks. The government communicates through press conferences in which the people are addressed as disobedient schoolchildren. That's not helping anymore. Where's the real conversation? Why aren't the ministers at the talk show tables? Why don't they go into the country and start the conversation? Mr. Chairman. We are very concerned about the corona epidemic and its impact on our society: the sick, the dead, the delayed and delayed care, the overload of care workers, the limitation of citizens' freedoms through measures and the economic damage to entrepreneurs and the cultural sector. But we are also deeply concerned about the increased polarisation, about people who no longer trust the government, who no longer trust each other, feel victimized and blame others, for whom self-interest prevails. We are concerned that the government does not have an answer to this, that the government has lost its credibility and that the support for the corona policy is falling rapidly. But it doesn't surprise us at all. For what can one expect if a government has put its own interests first for years, does not take responsibility for mistakes made? What can you expect if a government calls that we can only get corona under it together, but in the meantime sends the message that it is our fault that it is not working because we are not complying with the rules, because we are not all being vaccinated and because we are not working enough at home? What can you expect if a government doesn't do anything to find the connection, increase acceptance, preach tolerance and prevent disinformation? What we need are leaders who say what is important and at the same time show compassion and call for tolerance, as the Mayor of Amsterdam recently did in her speech. What we need is solidarity, looking beyond our own interests. What we need is insight into what our behaviour contributes to possible infections and overload of care, but without unnecessary blame. What we need is the understanding that long-term vaccination offers the very best protection, both for the person himself and for society, but also the understanding that vaccinees can become infected and pass on infections and that it may therefore be necessary in some situations to ask them to test themselves, wear a mouth cap and/or keep away. In our view, the ball is now mistakenly often placed entirely with the unvaccinated, which is not right and strengthens polarisation. I told you, if we ask people to change their behavior, we have to do it with conviction, but without blackmailing them. What exactly is the government's convincing vaccination strategy? I hope, however, that something other than tweets from the Minister will require you to look for more information if you are afraid that you will become sterile from the vaccine and from more than the threat of exclusion in a 2G society. Because what exactly is the government doing to increase the vaccination rate in areas where it is low? I hear about local initiatives, but where is the national vaccination offensive? What we also need is that there are plans ready so that they can be deployed when it is necessary and effective: plans for the temporary short-term closure of sectors, including the corresponding support packages; plans for education in the event of an increase in contagion; more extensive testing plans; plans to administer a booster vaccine to vulnerable elderly and everyone who has had the Janssen vaccine; plans to provide vaccines to poorer countries; plans to increase capacity on ic's and support care in general; plans to combat disinformation and make objective information widely accessible. When I talk about plans, I am not talking about intentions but concrete, detailed plans, including budget and implementation plan. Are these plans there, I ask the Minister, and have they been worked out in such a way that, if necessary, implementation can be started next week? I would like a specific answer on all seven points. Mr. Chairman. I very much hope that the government will be able to reverse the tide and take away our concerns, not only with regard to the fight against the corona pandemic, but also with regard to combating the polarisation we are seeing today. The government won't be able to do that alone. All politicians have a role to play in this. Only together can we get corona underneath and only together can we fight polarization. Don't let this be a killer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Mr Van Hattem has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. During the interplay debate on 20 April on the failure to implement the Van Hattem motion, the motion to indicate measurable indicators in advance for all corona measures, Minister De Jonge said, and I quote: "I believe it was Abraham Kuyper who once said: rule is more than administer. The same applies here, of course." That statement was not from Abraham Kuyper, but from Willem Groen van Prinsterer, and the full quote, from 1829, reads, and I quote: "She [the government] must rule according to the Constitution. In our opinion, it has so far been far too exclusively administered; and, while it did not make use of its essential regs, it may have gone beyond the scope of the monarchal authority's regt or importance." This minister is more concerned with administering the corona measures than with governing them. To impose an administrative QR code on the entire population and to take ad hoc ill-thought-out measures when RIVM administrators calculate that this minister's approach fails completely over and over again. And in doing so, this government, as Green van Prinster said, could be further aligned with the law in the administration, and does not govern according to the constitution, but tramples on the fundamental rights of our citizens in its QR administration. Breaches of the Constitution are much too light-hearted for this government, in particular Article 11 of the Constitution: "Everyone has the right to inviolability of his body, subject to any restrictions to be imposed by law or by law." Such restrictions on this fundamental right are being re-executed by the government with today's extension law. With the QR administrative constraint, the right to the inviolability of the human body is increasingly threatened. And that while those QR codes only offer false security and themselves create a counterproductive effect. In doing so, this restriction of this fundamental right is disproportionate and unacceptable. In addition, the use of the corona access card and its increasingly widespread application ensure the effect of an indirect vaccination obligation by means of urge and compulsion. This is contrary to the Wilders motion adopted in the Lower House, which clearly states that direct or indirect vaccination coercion or urge is not allowed. Other fundamental rights are also subject to disproportionate infringements on the basis of the Twm. The security of existence for many citizens and businesses is undermined by this government. With lockdowns, closing down the catering and other sectors, excluding citizens who do not want or can use QR code in so-called non-essential shops, restaurants or other facilities and with the forthcoming proposals to extend corona access tickets to the workplace, a large group of people also have their jobs at stake and thus their livelihoods at stake. In short, these are serious infringements of Article 20 of the Constitution, and I quote: 'the security of life of the population and the spread of prosperity are the concern of the public authorities'................................................................................................................................................................ The proposed mandatory use of corona access cards in the workplace is formally provided by law, but is so disproportionate and unprovenly effective that there should be absolutely no question of violating this fundamental right. How can the Minister guarantee that, in the light of the Constitution, these people can continue to provide their livelihoods? Or is the Minister going to violate a fundamental right again? I'd like a response from the Minister. We have already seen, in particular, that the curfew severely restricted Article 9 of the Constitution, the right of assembly and demonstration, and Article 10, the right to privacy, within the framework of the corona measures. And that without any effect, without any effectiveness, about which later more, and therefore heavily disproportionate. And now the outgoing cabinet even wants to trample on Article 1 of the Constitution by creating medical apartheid with 2G measures by openly discriminated against unvaccinated citizens and other citizens who do not want to use QR admissions in principle. Even so, vaccinees can still light each other and others with corona and thus maintain the overall pressure on the care, which makes the safety status obtained with QR codes and 2G via vaccination merely false safety. Under this outgoing cabinet, the constitution has become a rag. This urge to administer goes on in an even more profound way. As I indicated in the previous extension, nothing is as permanent as a temporary government measure. Last Saturday, newspaper Trouw wrote: "The European coronacheck is a keeper. But are two vaccinations enough?" It states that the European Commission is working on a permanent corona certificate, which administers the vaccination status and for which two vaccinations are not enough to maintain the QR code. Now that the Minister is again and again renewing the present temporary emergency law, he has already mentioned a fifth or sixth extension, it seems that these measures will soon become completely permanent via Brussels. Can the Minister rule out the fact that the Dutch will soon be forced to attach to that permanent EU corona certificate, whether or not linked to the upcoming European digital identity card? Is the cabinet prepared to prevent this and to say clearly no to the EC on such a proposal? Once again, it is clear that a next-generation society is urgently needed to protect and safeguard our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u6	Can I ask Mr Van Hattem, who has been so interested in the Constitution, whether he also refers to Article 22 (1) of the Constitution: the public authorities are taking measures to promote public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u7	I would very much like to comment on that article. That is a very important article, and that is also an article that the Rutte cabinet has neglected so far. Health care is completely undressed. There has been unnecessary cuts in that health care, with the support of D66. D66 has gotten ahead of us to take care of it all off. That is the main reason why we now have these problems. The fact that care is no longer able to cope, is due to these endless cuts and not investing in the care where it is needed, not expanding the ic-capacity et cetera. This fundamental right has also been violated by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u8	I would like to ask Mr Van Hattem if he is familiar with the development of the health budget. Last week we discussed the state budget with considerations from the Minister of Finance, in which he expressed his concerns about the constant growth of the health budget. I understand the argument, it is an appropriate argument for administration and in support of your argument, but it is factually incorrect, although you can always discuss how the money has been used; that public health savings have been made is incorrect. It has grown slightly less rapidly in recent years. I'll come back to the last question. This is looking back and where we are now. What solution does Mr Van Hattem have in mind to promote public health from now on, given the capacity that exists?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u9	Now Mr Backer has made quite a story of the fact that the health budget has grown, but it is precisely the ic capacity that has been cut in recent years. A number of hospitals are closed. In short, the care is simply undressed. Perhaps the total costs have been incurred, but that does not mean anything about quality, nor does it mean that the necessary investments in care have taken place. That is where the problem lies, and that needs to be addressed. Then you can take many measures that only offer false safety, but this will not help public health, and therefore Article 22 of the Constitution. So there is little we can do with the argument now put forward that the budget has grown. Then the money should have been well invested, but that didn't happen. I repeat that this must be done. Invest mainly in ic capacity. Invest in the hands of the bed. Make sure those people are trained and the capacity is maintained. That's essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u11	Finally. If we were to adopt Mr Van Hattem's policy, we could do so, of course, for a while. He didn't answer my question. What is his plan now, at the moment, for public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u12	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u13	We can now deal with the whole budget for health here, but the point is this. Motions have been tabled in the Lower House to increase ic capacity. What party voted against it? D66. Almost all the other parties are in favour of this, only the coalition parties are structuralally holding back the necessary investments in care. So the solution at the moment is simply to quickly replace the outgoing Rutte cabinet with a cabinet that really wants to invest in the necessary elements of care, rather than sticking to these abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you. This was your third, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr President, I have no further question. I simply note that Mr Van Hattem's solution is to table motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u16	I find Mr Van Hattem's criticism of the concern a little special. The reason is that an OECD study has recently been carried out, which shows that the Netherlands is ranked second in quality. So if Mr Van Hattem really wants to do justice to the quality of the government's care and policy, then he should warmly congratulate Minister De Jonge on the quality of care and invite him to keep that quality at the same high level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u17	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u18	My question is: is Mr Van Hattem prepared to do so, given the results of the latest OECD study?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u19	Then I should probably congratulate Mr Verkerk, because at the moment we do not have a code black that is threatening. Then there are no problems at all in the care, if the quality of care is of such a high level. Then those problems will not be dealt with. But obviously there are problems, otherwise all these measures were not declared and the need for these measures was not laid down here. Despite Mr Verkerk's research, if the concern was really at the level it should be at, the pressure on care was not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u20	I only note that Mr Van Hattem does what he does more often. A scientific study is cited which examines the care inside and outside. From that research comes a very good figure. And then Mr Van Hattem comes up with a few things that don't go well. Well, I also acknowledge that some things don't go well. But on that basis, Mr Van Hattem wipes the whole investigation off the table. This is neither methodological nor scientificly sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u21	We're not here to review research reports. We are here because of the need for health care, according to the government and the OMT. If there is a good report on this, the problem would not be there if we had to believe Mr Verkerk. So we might as well end this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u22	I can go along with Mr Van Hattem's speech. I also heard that an unnamed ic yesterday was approached by the hospital in Venlo with the request if they could please take over patients. That was the fourteenth hospital approached by Venlo. So if Mr Van Hattem says that things are going wrong and that things are really going wrong, then we recognize ourselves in that. Mr Van Hattem has rightly also spoken about the budget of the VWS Ministry. We have requested a budget debate on this budget in the Committee on Health. Do I understand from this that your group supports this request to hold a debate on the VWS budget, which is also worthy of note and in which many billions are still missing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u23	This does not seem to me to be the place to do committee work on the procedures for debates, but I am not the first spokesperson for the VWS in our group, so I would like to leave it to the spokesperson for the VWS to decide whether there is a need for a budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u24	You referred to the VWS budget, so I would like to take this opportunity to enthuse you to discuss it in detail with the Minister. So perhaps you could pass that on to your group spokesman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u25	The answer is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u26	I'll come back to the ICU anyway. I have heard this argument from Mr Van Hattem many times, including from his group in the House of Representatives. Very often, therefore, Germany's example is mentioned. He's not calling it today, and I wonder if he's doing that consciously. After all, we all know that in Germany there are 47.7 ic-beds per 100,000 inhabitants and 6.7 beds per 100,000 inhabitants in the Netherlands. You've already indicated that, and I won't deny it. But I do not know if Mr Van Hattem knows, but there are also a lot of problems with intensive care capacity in Germany at the moment, especially in certain sub-regions. This already requires sub-region managers to declare a vaccination obligation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u27	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u28	My question is, why are you not telling me this? Because there are a lot of intensivecarebeds there, but I note that we currently have exactly the same problems as we do in the Netherlands, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you. Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u30	So why don't you talk about the German example, which you often mention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr. Van Hattem wasn't done with his story yet, so if we're gonna ask about everything he hasn't mentioned, it's gonna be a long day. But perhaps Mr. Van Hattem has a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u32	I think this is a bit of a weird interruption. Now I'm being blamed for keeping something from me. I think that's a peculiar interruption, but okay. Germany's example is cited. There is indeed a larger ic capacity at national level. We now see that, for example, North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony still have capacity left and that today even 20 Dutch patients have been able to take over. So, as the speaker rightly says, this problem arises in certain sub-regions. Some Länder such as Saxony have a capacity shortage, but Germany as a whole does not, so the point that the VVD is trying to make now, I cannot see very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u33	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u34	That's not the impression I'm getting from the German media right now. One certainly has a problem too. This is not due to the capacity and number of beds, but they also have a very large shortage of care staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u35	Maybe I can respond to that. The VVD is now talking about a shortage of care personnel. Had the VVD group there among the many Cabinets-Rutte we have had so far, but invested heavily in it! If the VVD had invested in that care staff instead of making cuts, the problem would have been much less serious. So I really don't want to hear that argument from the VVD spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u36	Just a moment, Mrs. De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr Backer has already dealt with the cuts, so I am not going to go into that. It's not just about money, Mr. Van Hattem. It is also about how many people we as a society can make work in care for the quality of care we try to deliver every day. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u38	Do you have another question? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mrs De Bruijn talks about how many people we can make work in healthcare. Look, we also have another problem. That's mass immigration. If this country absorbs tens of thousands, 100,000 extra people every year, then the pressure on care is growing. Those hands on the bed aren't there either. That is also a problem caused by the VVD. For example, I can mention a few problems which led only to greater misery under the Rutte Cabinets. It's all a matter of concern to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u40	Joining in on this. It is absolutely true, I think, that the PVV has been calling for more money for care for a very long time, both here and in the House of Representatives, so I certainly cannot deny you a certain right to speak. At the same time, perhaps we should look a little further. I am curious to see how Mr Van Hattem looks at this. Today we see the enormous vulnerability of an ageing continent to viruses, pandemics and the like. We are going to experience this much more often in the future. That is a real expectation. I am therefore curious to hear the answer. Is that answer: more money, more, more? When's that gonna stop? Is more money always the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u41	If you want to provide certain care, you do need money for that. But of course it is still important to keep the hospitals open. In recent years we have seen the closure of the Slotervaart hospital, the Bronovo Hospital in The Hague is closed. That's all business, too. The accessible infrastructure of the care must be maintained. Of course there is money involved, but it is the people, the buildings and the facilities, everything. The whole system needs to be maintained. It just needs attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you. I'd still like to suggest that we give Mr. Van Hattem a chance to get a little further on his story, because he's not yet at a quarter. But Mrs. Prince, go ahead, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u43	I had one more question for Mr Van Hattem: is prevention not better than cure? Shouldn't we bet more on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u44	It's always better to avoid it. That is why it is just good if people who are sick, who have complaints, just stay home and follow the measures, ventilate enough and so on. These are all matters that are very important in preventing infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u45	There is much more to be done to prevent contamination. Now let's bet on that instead of watching how we do it in hospitals. How you turn it or turn it, there always comes a limit. Shouldn't we be paying much more attention to that? That people adhere to the code of conduct and that we work together on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u46	It is indeed important that we avoid contamination. Prevention is better than cure. Prevention is also better than imposing a vaccination obligation, QR codes and that sort of thing. Then prevention is always much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u47	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u48	I am glad that we agree that prevention is better than cure. But if you say that like this and say that there's coercion, which I don't think is the case, let's see how we can convince everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u49	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To get back on curfew, I would have stayed there. The basis for this measure comes either by means of the Temporary Law measures or by repealing them, but use through the previously applied State Emergency Law remains an option. Can the Minister rule out that this legal route is once again being used in the context of corona measures? Moreover, the curfew proved not to be effective at all. In spite of all the assumptions made by the cabinet, OMT member Ernst Kuipers stated at the end of April, and I quote: When the curfew was introduced, the calculation was that it would reduce 10%. If you look at the evolution of hospitalizations over time, we saw no effect at both the introduction and the shift. End of quote. Knowing that the curfew was therefore ineffective and disproportionate as a measure. In the case of other corona measures, we cannot at all assess whether they are effective, because the Minister still does not establish clear indicators in advance, as instructed in the Van Hattem motion. As far as indicators are concerned, the Minister always refers to the coronadashboard, but he also makes the above-mentioned aspects subject to moving interpretation. The effectiveness of the curfew measure came up with an investigation afterwards. On 29 April last, RIVM announced its intention to investigate the effectiveness of the curfew, in which Minister Grapperhaus also stated with certainty that it would be empirical data. For the RIVM research no deadline was announced then and on the RIVM website is as far as I can check to find no research result either. Can the Minister state the state of this investigation? Is it now ready and, if so, why has Parliament not received this? Can the Minister indicate whether this investigation can also be given to Parliament? The only thing that was clear was that the curfew gave the state treasury EUR 9 million in fines. Is the Minister prepared to repay these fines now that this measure has been ineffective and disproportionate? If the cabinet does allow research to be carried out, do not do so only afterwards and ensure that good research can be done by establishing measurable indicators. Then Parliament can also assess the measure on objective grounds and make clear preliminary considerations. Come up with clear figures about, for example, underlying suffering in hospitalisations and deaths. Can the Minister undertake to do so so that a motion on this matter is not necessary in the second term? Such research and the clarification of measurable indicators is not unnecessarily administrative, as the minister suggested earlier, but lays down concrete principles in order to be able to rule properly. Measuring is knowing and necessary for effective policies. But it must be clear what the cabinet is basing its measures on. In the explanatory memorandum to this Extension Act, the Minister refers to the OMT opinions for his support. Last week, OMT member Diederik Gommers stated quite clearly that the cabinet is also often hiding behind the OMT and sometimes pretends to come with advice from the OMT. Can the Minister clarify this? What does this say about the basis for action and is it not all the more necessary to provide clear indicators in advance so that Parliament can properly carry out its supervisory task and its role as co-legislator? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants to get rid of ineffective and disproportionate measures. The package of measures made possible by the Twm, such as the corona tickets with QR codes, such as the accompanying 2G measure which threatens the Cabinet, such as the 1.5 meters outdoors, is unprovenly effective and even counterproductive. The GGD already warns that young people whose social life and livelihood are threatened by the 2G measure are increasingly opting for so-called "contagion parties" in order not to be required to be vaccinated. Vaccination must always remain a free and informed choice and not be imposed by state control. That is what is happening now with corona tickets and, in particular, their widening to the workplace, education and other matters of importance to everyday life. Therefore, it is not for nothing that the members of the Christian Union adopted motions at their congress last Saturday that speak out against the introduction of 2G and the extension of the use of the corona tickets. An important signal also for their members in this Chamber not to go along with this false security. That is why we are tabling a number of motions to avoid unnecessary mischief. Now that the outgoing minister does not care about adopted motions in the Lower House about not applying coercion or urge to vaccination and do not take separate measures, therefore in this Chamber a motion against the introduction of 2G and the extension of the corona tickets. By embracing this motion, the Christian Union can also do justice to the wishes of its supporters. We are also seeing a trend in other European countries where vaccination is compulsory. In Austria, for example, it has already been declared subject to severe fines and even prison sentences, and the Belgian federal government also has plans for a general vaccination obligation. We are therefore considering a motion to exclude a vaccination obligation in the Netherlands. In addition, a motion to exclude the possibility in the Netherlands of implementing the measure already introduced in Austria, namely a lockdown only for unvaccinated people, which is controlled, among other things, by means of traffic covens. Such a discriminatory measure is a form of coercion and therefore unacceptable. While unvaccinated people are threatened in their livelihood, vaccine makers collectively earn nearly €1,000 per second from the corona vaccines, as reported last week by the Dagblad van het Noord. The shortest way to put an end to these measures is to vote against this extension law, which removes the basis for all these unfortunate measures. In any case, the PVV will vote against this extension law, because ineffective and disproportionate measures with lockdown and QR-pregnancy do not provide a way out of the crisis, but only push our country deeper into it. Start by investing heavily in health care, in ic-beds and staff. Because that is the real core of this crisis. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mrs. De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr. Van Hattem uses the word "discrimination" rather generously and in my view too often. Does Mr Van Hattem not agree with me that... We have no vaccination obligation in the Netherlands. Everyone is free to choose a vaccination or not. But if you make a choice, that choice will have consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u53	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u54	Should choices for whether or not to vaccinate have no consequences in your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u55	If this choice means that people are threatened by their right to exist, are no longer able to follow education, etcetera, etcetera, then there are indeed disproportionate measures and thus a form of discrimination. Indeed, then it is a disproportionate consequence of this free choice. And with that, it is no longer a free choice. Then there is a far-reaching consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you. Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u57	I agree that it is important to look closely at whether measures are disproportionate or not, but that they are a threat to their lives, and that kind of thing is very big words. For example, if you indicate that you would like to protect someone who has not been vaccinated and is at extra risk in an environment where the virus is freely circulating, it is from a protection point of view big words to say that you are threatening him with his life. You do use very big words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u58	No, I'm talking about the security of existence of people who are threatened. It does not apply to everyone equally, as is now suggested. A younger person is much less likely to get seriously ill with the virus than someone who is 90-plus so to speak. The group of young people is a group that is going to have additional consequences when, for example, QR codes and possibly 2G are introduced into education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u60	That is an essential point, Mr President. If people are not vaccinated or cannot provide QR code, they are excluded from work, education, etc. Well, then there's definitely some kind of compulsion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you. I'm really gonna end this right now. I would ask Members to confine themselves to brief interruptions and brief answers. I am now going to Mr Karakus of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Van Hattem mentioned the influx of 10,000 to 100,000 migrants. This can give rise to the suggestion that this influx is the cause of the burden of care. In the context of polarization, I think it would be very good if Mr Van Hattem clarified what he meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u63	Very briefly, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u64	It's actually a very simple calculation. If we allow 100,000 people in the Netherlands every year, all these people also need care. Care capacity and care staff are not growing to an equal extent, while care needs are growing with this large influx. So the fact that this immigration is so big also weighs on the care. That's just an important factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u65	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u66	I do not know where that number of 100,000 comes from, but apart from that: you could also use migration to solve the labour market problem, to relieve the burden of care. So I see that as more of an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u67	But it's not like all qualified care personnel are coming into the country. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u68	Just a little supplement to this question. I'll be on hot coal, but I'm asking the question now. Is Mr Van Hattem aware of the proportion of care workers with a non-Dutch background?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u69	I'm sure that's a significant part of it. I also have respect and appreciation for people who work in the care sector, but the discussion that just took place was not about that background. The point was that if you allow 100,000 people in your country every year, the population will grow and the need for care will increase. In the meantime, care capacity is not growing equally. So you're also getting an ever-growing pressure on that concern. That is the essence of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u70	I'm afraid we're not gonna get out of here. That's why I hesitated to interrupt. In my opinion, it can be said purely on the basis of the figures that people with a migration background who enter the Netherlands, also new people who enter, make a more important contribution to the solution than to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u71	I would just like to say that I would like to table my motions in the first term. First of all, that is the next motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this Act of Approval constitutes the formal basis for the continued use of temporary rules under the Public Health Act;]] [[noting that, in view of the legislative proposals submitted and announced regarding the increased use of corona tickets, the outgoing cabinet intends to extend the use of these temporary rules;]] [[Whereas this planned extended use of corona access tickets will impose specific restrictions on unvaccinated persons in such a way that there is (indirect) urge and coercion to vaccinate;]] [[Whereas these proposed measures are contrary to the Wilders motion adopted by the House of Representatives, which states that only voluntary vaccination can be considered, i.e. that a direct or indirect vaccination obligation is excluded, as well as coercive or urgent measures;]] [[Whereas, by considering the option of using 2G policy, the outgoing cabinet is in breach of the Segers/Wilders motion adopted unanimously by the House of Representatives, which calls upon the Cabinet to ensure in its policy and legislation that a vaccination certificate is in no way possible as an exclusive access card for facilities or locations;]] [[Whereas the measures envisaged make an unlawful distinction in the treatment of vaccinees and unvaccinated persons and are therefore contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution;]] [[Whereas the measures envisaged for in particular unvaccinated restrictive measures provide for disproportionate infringements in Article 11 of the Constitution on Physical Integrity, Article 19 of the Constitution on the Promotion of Employment and the Free Choice of Labour and Article 20 of the Constitution on the Security of Living of the People;]] [[renounces the measures which distinguish between the treatment of vaccinees and unvaccinated persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35899-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u72	Then I have the next motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that in the Netherlands there will never and never be a lockdown, as in Austria, for Dutch people who have not been vaccinated for any reason,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35899-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u73	For the record, a motion of equivalent effect in the Lower House was supported by all opposition parties. Then the next motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Niek Jan van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is working on a permanent corona certificate;]] [[Notes that a permanent European corona certificate is undesirable;]] [[calls on the cabinet not to support the planned introduction of this by the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35899-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u74	Finally, the next motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Niek Jan van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this Act of Approval constitutes the formal basis for the continued use of temporary rules under the Public Health Act;]] [[noting that, in view of the legislative proposals submitted and announced regarding the increased use of corona access tickets, the outgoing cabinet intends to extend the use of these temporary rules;]] [[points out that the use of the broadening of the corona access tickets and the use of 2G policies is undesirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35899-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr. Van Hattem, are you with that at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Van der Voort and I have divided today's contribution into two parts on behalf of D66. I will focus on the question of legality and the broad palette of the fight against pandemics. Mr. Chairman. Jan Terlouw said it very nicely recently at his 90th birthday: having duties is a right, but I think that these ministers think that having these duties is a serious right. That's how we feel in this Chamber. At least I am speaking for myself and my group, because they are heavy responsibilities. Above these Twm hang at least three dark clouds. That of the metal fatigue in society, that of the lack of clarity in the measures and finally the point of the vaccination urge experienced by some. It has already been discussed in this debate. It also evokes very violent reactions. All we have to do is look at our mailbox from the past few days. Mr. Chairman. That metal fatigue is very well recognizable, even for myself. We are nevertheless giving an opinion on this bill today. Of course, enough has already been said about the slowness of things. Mr De Boer was right to speak about this. But I think that the main cause of this metal fatigue is that citizens feel that it is not being solved once and for all. Every time we come up with something new and discuss what would be the best approach. I've received a lot of letters and e-mails in which people write that they know that 100% solution. But the Minister is more modest in that respect, and I think that is good for him, because it is continuing and investigating and ultimately finding what works best. The opposite conclusion is that nothing must be done, and then we will be submitting five motions in the House of Commons is not the solution to which the Dutch people are entitled. Is that gonna cause deaths, not delay covid-related treatments, postpone surgeries, shut down schools, because we think we can do better? I don't think that's the way. Mr. Chairman. An important lesson of the past year and a half is that, if we are to be able to bring back the world of life in which there is a degree of mutual trust and a situation that we can sustain, it is about the behaviour of what I call reciprocity, rights and duties, and destiny. We often talk about solidarity, and I often think about socio-economic solidarity, but this is about fate. Life and death are connected here. With a number of simple rules of conduct, we can achieve a great deal. We do not achieve that by blaming other people for not doing something or for thinking that they should do it themselves. Then I come to the second point, of these measures. Yes, simplicity and clarity is of course much more attractive. The lockdown is such a simple and attractive measure, but what have we learned from simple and clear measures that often do not work justly? And what have we learned as co-legislator that people prefer customization? Looking for tailor-made work is more complicated, it is more unclear, but I think we should have the courage to stand for it. There have been many warnings about ignoring differences. Last week I read a very sharp article in which the observer said: the pandemic has exposed the vulnerabilities as a kind of contrast fluid in the body of society. There I have the feeling that the government has really failed to recognise the differences in how this pandemic is working in the big cities, among certain populations, and therefore we have not reached non-vaccines. That's a very crucial group. A lot of the non-vaccines could not be reached, there is also a part that does not want to be achieved. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister explain why initiatives by Rotterdam general practitioners and action committees were not immediately strengthened and supported? I think that's part of the solution. That brings me to the third point. Is there a vaccination urge? Mr Van Hattem spoke about this in detail. But of course that's not possible. Then we're in the fundamental rights domain. No, we can't tell citizens what to think. That's what we don't want them to find, what to believe, what to ignore. Nevertheless, this does not relieve us of the obligation to promote public health, even as co-legislator in this house. Mr. Chairman. If we ask citizens who have made their own choice to restrict their freedom of movement, then that is not new in the legislation at all. We've done the same in other domains. Smoking in public buildings, it is less appealing, but we have also asked: you will have to limit yourself because you put others at risk, in the case of smoking staff from catering establishments. Mr. Chairman. It is the result of the independent balance of interests of every citizen whether he wants to be vaccinated or not. And some of them, that's a separate group that also needs separate solutions for which they can't be vaccinated for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u79	Now Mr Backer of D66 is going through a very short turn. He says that restrictions are possible, such as banning smoking in public buildings. But banning smoking in a particular place is quite different from a medical procedure, allowing vaccination in one's own body, under government pressure. So how does Mr. Backer of D66 find that a similar greatness? Everyone still has the freedom to light a cigarette outside or at home if they want to, so that's a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u80	The comparison is true, because everyone also has an opportunity to stay at home if he thinks he wants to stay unvaccined, which puts him at risk of contamination of others. Mr Van Hattem is now pushing for freedom in one movement. No one is forced to be vaccinated, no one. That's not in anyone's policy, neither do we. Everyone can make that choice. But you have also been able to see this in many of the e-mails we have received. People are reasoning from the idea "I have made that decision now, but the consequence must be with others." That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u81	There is no doubt that there is a need for this. If people no longer have the opportunity to go to work without such a vaccination certificate or QR code, to go to school, to go to the pool with their children, to participate in a sports club, to go to a shop, then there is an urge. Then people are excluded from social life and locked up in their own homes. So how can Mr Backer of D66 insist that there is no urge to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you. Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem takes the word "force" in his mouth, and that is wrong. What I advocate is that we be very honest about the question: if people come to the judgment, that is allowed, that they do not want to be vaccinated... I leave a medical issue aside. Then there are consequences in this society. It is clear that one person may contribute to the contamination of the other person, that this contamination contributes to the flooding of hospitals, that operations are postponed and that this has an impact on public health. So that autonomous decision is allowed, but all those autonomous decisions have a consequence. And that is the question: are you willing, if you wish, to accept that your freedom of movement is being restricted something from the idea of destiny that I was just talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u84	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u85	Anyone who wants to feel protected must take such a vaccine, but people who do not want to should also have the freedom not to. There's also a lot of connection in that. Then you can't tell those people: you can't go to work anymore, you can't earn your bread, you can't get out of your house, you can't take your kids to the pool anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u87	So what kind of fate does Mr. Backer of D66 have with those people who, for very good reasons, choose not to be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u88	Finally, Mr. Backer, and then Mrs. Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u89	Mr. Chairman. I think I've been trying to make that clear. I'll go on about it. Mr Van der Voort will also speak about it, also from his own experience. The key question is: what evil is the least evil?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u90	I am not a physician, but it is now known that fully vaccinated people can still infect another through transmission and can also become infected themselves. How does Mr Backer see in this context the fully vaccinated people who are also contagious?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u91	That's a very good point. I think the Minister will talk about that as well. Of course, it's not about absolute cover and absolute protection. It's a relative protection. Take the issue of the 2G, which is not on the agenda today but will come. If there are vaccinees in a room together, someone can still be infected, but the consequences are much less. If there are people in that room who have not been vaccinated and who have only entered according to a test system, the consequences are much greater, and the consequences for hospitals are therefore much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u92	This is only my second interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u93	Yes, but I'm trying to limit it to two, because the number of interruptions is so large, times the number of questions, that we're going to walk out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u94	But it can't be that one senator can commit three or four interruptions and that I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u95	That's right. That's why I'm trying to limit everyone to two where that's possible. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u96	I would also like to make the point to Mr Backer that, of course, the contamination is different for an older person. The older, the more vulnerable in general, very generalisingly said, compared to young people, who indeed experience less rapid adverse effects of the infection. How does Mr Backer see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u97	Yeah, that's right. I was just talking about the contrast fluid. It's different for a lot of people, and many older people are more vulnerable. There are people with diabetes, they're even more vulnerable. There are people with underlying suffering, it is true, even more vulnerable. I guess that's what it keeps coming back to. We're very busy looking at people's rights. It is perhaps ironic: the party that always stands up for individual rights is us. We always have been. But rights also have duties. Rights also have a connection with others. And that's why we're at a point where we can't say "yes this and that, sister and me" anymore. No, it's a serious pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u98	Last interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u99	Those are always the good interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u100	How does Mr Backer see that a CTB, for example, for a library, for gyms, for catering is mandatory at the moment but not a CTB for care institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mrs Baay raises a very good point, and that is what I mentioned in my second recital: the clarity of the measures. If you discussed them all separately, I think there is something to say about a lot of measures. I do not see all that well, but I would like to pass on the question to the Minister who hopefully will look into it very well. And then we get an appropriate answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u102	It is quite clear that the increase in the number of infections and the serious problems that we are now facing are all related to insufficient compliance with the normal basic measures. Isn't that partly a consequence of government policy and a bit of what you're saying? That we have radiated for a very long time: if you enter, then you can go ahead, you are free and you are doing well. The unvaccinated are the bad guys. They're holding us and that's not gonna get us out of the crisis. Turns out it doesn't work that way. And as a result, we unconsciously gave the vaccinees the idea: I have been vaccinated, so no more measures for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u103	What I particularly find in this discussion, and also in the many e-mails I get, is how many vaccinees are concerned about the position of unvaccinated people, the division into society. Well, 85% and 15% aren't divisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u104	Excuse me, Mr. Backer. The question is whether it can be quieter on the right side of the room, in the area between Forum and SP. I am getting complaints that there are comments from political groups, within groups and between groups all day long. The request is not to do so, because it bothers. If you want to comment, you can do so with the interrupt microphone, but with moderation, of course. Carry on, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u105	I was at the point where it's actually encouraging that so many vaccinees are worried about the others, who haven't been vaccinated. "Twinning" is a crazy word. 85% have been vaccinated and 15% have not. People care about that fate. The downside of it is that you may also ask the non-vaccines to appeal to the fate of the vaccinees. The point of communication and condemnation over and over again seems inappropriate to me. At the point of communication, you did put the finger on the sore spot. There has been very inconsistent talk about mouth caps, about distance and "dancing with Janssen" was one of those. I think the Minister knows that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u106	Would you like to finish your answer, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u107	I think that I have responded sufficiently to Mr Van Dijk's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u108	I see that's the case. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u109	I was talking about the many reactions in society. You will notice that there has been a kind of cold mistral or a cold desert wind in this debate. There has been an intolerance that I have not yet experienced in the years I have been here as a parliamentarians. Threats, hyperboles, it's all not shy, while we're at this time of care and fear... there's just fear in society... looking for solidarity and mutual understanding. Do the Ministers think that there have been no opportunities to channel this debate? What does the Minister intend to do about it? Mr. Chairman. I come to the key question, to the extension. In the legality assessment, the key question is: is this the measure with the most life-saving effectiveness, which at the same time is the least significant in the legal situation of citizens? It is not about the extension as such, but that measures can be taken on this basis. That is the double key to the weighting of proportionality that always demands careful consideration in this house. And we will. We're spending time on that. The cabinet has made that assessment, which is the supporting reasoning for the extension of the contract, and the Lower House has supported it by a small majority. I am afraid that an important part of the House of Representatives will come to the conclusion that this form of anti-pandemic can be stopped. And how does the Minister proceed with the division in society and in politics across the street? How are the ministers going to build bridges? We're gonna have to move on together. How can we outline a perspective that can be supported by a wider majority? How can we ensure that our neighbors are protected and we can behave in such a way that it becomes safer? Mr. Chairman. All things considered, we believe that the extension will keep an eye on the right balance and will be able to cope with this test of proportionality. Mr Van der Voort will be able to add something to this with much more authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mr Van der Voort has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u111	Mr. Chairman. As I mentioned in the previous debate, I am also professionally involved in the treatment of corona patients. Here in this Chamber, I judge corona legislation as we are used to in this Chamber: on legality, enforceability and feasibility. It's unrelated to the hospital work. After careful consideration, our group has found no need to act differently in this respect than before. A pandemic lasts three to five years. That was true for the plague, polio, influenza and it seems more and more that corona also needs this time. However, the cabinet has always given the impression that the pandemic is almost over. A quote from Minister De Jonge: "In front of the harbor, we're not going to do anything stupid." This involved the scaling down of measures. Vaccination has always been the port. The effect of vaccination is indeed high. The D66 Group agrees with the Minister that vaccination is the strongest means we have to control the pandemic. The effect of vaccination depends on the infection of the virus. A more contagious variant, such as the delta variant, needs a higher vaccination rate than the alpha variant. However, the complete elimination of the virus by vaccinations is now almost impossible, so that vaccination must be combined with other measures. As a result, vaccination has not become the port that was foreseen. This autumn, however, many people have taken this as a promise. The fact that vaccination alone has not proved sufficient has therefore become a great disappointment and a source of distrust of public policy. The D66 Group asks the Minister of VWS whether the cabinet has missed opportunities in communication on corona measures, including vaccination, to inform the population fully and decisively enough. Has the government fought misinformation, disinformation and moodry enough? Does the government intend to take firm action against disinformation? Science in the broad sense is our guiding principle. How will the Minister turn this into communication, helping citizens to appreciate information and help them get through this pandemic well-informed? Let me give you an example. The disinformation about the booster on social media is overwhelmingly present. We know from the polio vaccination, which is given six times in the National vaccination programme and is thus boosted several times, that this is an effective strategy. How does the Cabinet counter disinformation? Does the Minister foresee any consequences of disinformation on corona vaccinations on the National vaccination programme? If the opinion-forming on vaccination changes, this may also jeopardise this programme. I'm considering a motion to combat disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u112	I agree with what Mr Van der Voort said. I also believe that much more needs to be done against disinformation. But we do have a problem here that has also been created by the government's zigzag policy. I see in many people, also vaccinees and people of good will, that they no longer have confidence in the advice of this minister. How does Mr van der Voort think that this Minister can fight disinformation if there is no confidence in this minister in a large part of the population?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u113	It's not just about the minister, it's about the cabinet as a whole. The cabinet has the task of providing good information. That is also what I call for adequate science-based information to be provided and to do so intensively. In addition, I call for disinformation to be contradicted. We received a letter from Minister Ollongren in October 2020, in which she provides a framework within which that can be done. It is my appeal to the entire cabinet, not just this minister, to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u114	But on 14 September, two months ago, this Minister, together with the Prime Minister, says: I am pleased to tell you all that we are abolishing the 1.5 metres. That was an understanding on Wikipedia. We've got to get rid of that. We're quitting the five-foot radius. I thought, "Isn't that too much, too early?" We've got records of contagion. I notice in society that there is a great deal of scepticism about the reports from the cabinet. How can that be if the messenger is not trusted? Then you must have another messenger deliver that message. Does Mr Van der Voort agree with me, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u115	I do not think it is up to me to question the credibility of the Minister for Health here. I note, however, that there is a need for good information and for disinformation to be contradicted. It is a challenge for the entire cabinet, including the US Secretary of State, to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u116	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u117	A perspective of the pandemic lasting three to five years implies that the corresponding measures should be applied more or less extensively in those years, depending on the number of infections. I have already mentioned this in previous Corona debates in this Chamber. From a scientific point of view, therefore, it is not surprising that we are living again with restrictive measures. Should the government have prepared society better for this and set out a clearer and realistic vision of the future? What does the Minister learn from this experience? The pandemic was initially a problem that seemed to be solved with a linear approach. Testing, isolating, and then done. But the current complexity makes the pandemic more a so-called wicked problem, with a linear approach no longer sufficient. There are no more purely good choices. The recognition as a wicked problem by advocates and opponents of the policy could form the basis for a dialogue that can bridge the current polarisation. After all, we need to get back together. This is not going to bring about perseverance in the positions taken. Mr. Chairman. By considering vaccinations only as a sufficient safe haven, other measures have been scaled down or stopped early. The cabinet and thus all of us have been surprised three times after the first wave by the new exponential increase in contamination and, in the wake of this, hospital and ic recordings. These were the autumn wave in 2020, the dance-with-Janssen wave and now the autumn wave in 2021. An exponential increase is the easiest to smother in the germ and not when it is at full speed. The D66 Group wonders what the Minister is doing to prevent this happening a fourth time. After a year and a half, there is a reasonable understanding of the measures that work. In fact, there are four types of measures. Firstly, general measures such as keeping away, wearing a mask, hand hygiene and ventilation. Secondly, protection measures for those who are not protected by vaccination. This includes: limitation of group size, corona admissions and 2G or 3G. Thirdly, increasing the vaccination rate. And fourthly, the boosters for maintaining immunity. We hope that the Minister will realise that the combination of these four categories will continue to be necessary for a longer period of time. Reliance on one category is often insufficient and has provided the opportunity for new exponential increases. Use these four categories of measures as a mixing panel, with all four sliders being shifted in relation to each other. One slider completely open or completely closed does not benefit the sound. The D66 Group asks the Minister whether this view fits in with his vision and approach. How far the sliders of the mixing panel are moved depends on the balance of open society versus disease burden. Disease burden is caused by hospital and ic intakes, but also by lung covid complaints and explicitly also by the delayed regular care and the burden on the care staff. Open society is the extent to which we can live as we used to, in which democratic freedoms and the rule of law form the basis. In which there is explicit scope for education and culture, the vulnerable parts of our society. And, of course, for companies, which are constantly challenged to be creative, in order to reduce the risk of entrepreneurial activity. And for young people, who themselves suffer little sickness, but have paid a high price. The D66 Group is concerned about the issue, but the same is true of the sectors that have just been mentioned. Together, these sectors constitute "care, culture, entrepreneurs and education" society. It is up to the government to serve, edit, monitor, maintain and balance all sectors. Unfortunately, this pandemic has not always succeeded. The D66 Group considers the balance between open society on the one hand and disease burden on the other crucial in corona policy on the other. If the slides of the mixing panel of measures go up, which is now necessary to reduce the number of infections, then this is at the expense of the open society. And the other way around, as we have seen, an open society at the moment does not go without an increase in the burden of disease. It is true, however, that in the case of a low number of infections an adjustment of the measures has a clear effect. It is therefore preferable to control the number of infections and to reduce the number of hospital and ic admissions, as recommended by the WHO. In addition, sending on infections is also indirectly sending on hospital and ic recordings. Can the Minister explain why it is important for him and the cabinet to hold on to sending in hospital and ic recordings instead of sending in infections? Mr. Chairman. In front of us is the extension of the Twm. It is clear that during a period of a high number of infections measures are needed and therefore the Twm should be extended. The question is whether the toolbox, the Twm, is now optimally furnished. The Minister states in his reply to written questions that a letter will be sent to the First Chamber before Christmas, reflecting on it. Could the Minister outline the broad lines of this? The approval law follows an extension decision and is submitted to Parliament immediately after the decision. They shall be dealt with without delay. In replying to the written questions on this subject, the Minister indicated that there was indeed a delay at a number of times which was avoidable. Can the Minister undertake that an immediate settlement of the next extension will be carried out by means of a new clearance law? Previously, we discussed the lower limit under which measures can no longer be considered proportionate. At the time, the Minister himself expressed the need for an upper limit above which testing for access was no longer effective. That was inspired by the dance-with-Janssen wave. In fact, that was an intention to send for contagion rates. Above that limit, more stringent measures than testing would be needed for access. In fact, the discussion on 2G versus 3G is a discussion on whether the upper limit has now been reached for the 3G application. We in the D66 Group will be happy to discuss this with the Minister when the legislation is discussed in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. So much for our contribution. Our group looks forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mrs Baay-Timmerman will now speak on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u119	Mr. Chairman. My group today confines itself solely to the agenda of the present bill of approval on the third extension of the Twm and the possibility of blocking corona access tickets. In addition, I will briefly comment on the booster campaign, because it has just started. The name of these Temporary Law measures is becoming ironic. The term "temporarily" is strange when we consider that this law was introduced on 1 December 2020 and that we are now, except for a few days, a year further. Today we are talking about the third extension, which started on 1 September 2021 and ends on 30 November next. So that's in seven days' time; Mrs De Boer mentioned it as well. In the note following the report of 19 November, the Minister discussed further the treatment of this law of approval by the House of Representatives. Partly because of the lack of the necessary speed there, the treatment in the First Chamber is only now being discussed. Just before the Twm extension expires, we are here, as it were, to debate it retroactively. That feels like mustard after dinner. In the opinion of 50PLUS, emergency legislation and the related measures, which have a duration of three months, should be dealt with and reviewed by both the Second and First Chambers within a maximum period of one month. I would like to hear whether the Minister agrees, given that the Minister already spoke during the debate in the House of Representatives on 8 November about a possible fourth or fifth extension of the Twm. The resulting delay has to do with the own agenda of the House of Representatives. The answer of Lower House questions has taken more time because of questions asked about the corona policy that went beyond the legislative proposal itself, the Minister said. That is why my group is asking the Minister whether in future a split could be introduced into the answer to actual questions about the legislative proposal itself and questions relating to the corona policy in general, so that the necessary speed is not lost. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The proportionality weighting plays a role in all legislation, but such a weighting is absolutely crucial if citizens' fundamental rights are to be infringed. This approval law, with the extended measures, does so. In the Second Chamber debate, it was stressed that a weighting of proportionality per measure per period should be repeated each time, so that the proposed freedom-limiting measure is considered proportionate before it enters into force. Mr. Chairman. Everyone in this house is familiar with the current high-level COOVID-19 contamination despite the 84% rate that has been fully vaccinated. This leads to increased hospitalisations, whether on or not on ICI. And then we expect influenza care next January. The media already speak of code black and care drama because of the increasing pressure on care. We do not need to discuss the need to reduce the levels of contamination. The problem for my group is, however, that the weighting of a measure to be imposed is always inextricably linked to the huge shortage of caregivers, and we all know that you cannot just open up a look at it. Influx and training takes about two years. So the acute shortage of care during crisis situations remains complete for the time being. Given this fact, I'm asking what the future vision of this outgoing cabinet is. Why is the pandemic preparedness announced in the summer not yet ready and should we wait until the end of December? That wait-and-see attitude is devastating in view of current developments. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS focuses mainly on the seniors, especially the group that is particularly vulnerable to the effects of a corona infection due to age. The policy pursued is to protect the vulnerable among us. Something that, of course, embraces my group. But 50-plussers have children, 60-plussers have grandchildren and they are certainly not blind to the effects of the ever-increasing freedom-limiting measures that need to be imposed on society. They do recognise that it is perhaps the youngest and the hardest. My group is deeply concerned about the ever-increasing division and polarisation in society between the vaccinees and unvaccinated. She abhors the violence of the past few days, which is certainly not always corona-related. The question to both ministers is whether and how this violence can be stopped. Mr. Chairman. Now to the booster, which is not the same as a third covid prick, but is called that in society. Among the elderly, vaccination readiness is highest and therefore the vaccination rate is highest. Many are eagerly looking forward to this booster. On 30 July last, RTL News announced: Israel is going for the third corona prick. In the meantime, it was scientifically established that the covid vaccines applied were less resistant to the delta variant and that the protection duration of the vaccines against COVID-19 is slowly decreasing, especially among seniors. On request, the VWS spokesperson said that the booster vaccination was under consideration and that there would be more clarity in September. The United Kingdom has now put in 10 million boosters and the US is following Israel's policy. And what did the Netherlands do? The outgoing cabinet only started the booster vaccination on 18 November. Why didn't the booster-prick campaign start in September, after a month of reflection, I ask the Minister? The 80-plussers would have obtained better protection against corona by October of this year, which might have prevented the overload of care. The booster shot after mid-November also coincides with their annual flu shot for many elderly people. It is known that the flu shot and pneumococcal vaccine can be administered simultaneously, as one looks on the viral and the other on the bacterial protection. But what about the booster? Can that combination even have no side effects? Then I will come back to the conversation I had with the Minister in the May debate, in which I asked him whether someone could be re-vaccinated with a corona vaccine after full vaccination in the foreseeable future. The Minister replied, I quote literally from the Acts of Rome: 'Well, I think that person will regret it, because those side effects will of course increase as you have had more shots. You don't do vaccination for fun, do you? I don't rule out that it could, but I honestly don't think anyone wants to." Can the Minister explain in more detail how, in this context, he may or may not place the possible side effects of a third Pfizer prick in conjunction with that of the flu prick? Can't side effects increase? For the sake of clarity, 50PLUS fully supports the booster shot for all those who want it, but would like to clarify the possible combination of vaccines. Mr. Chairman. Now for the CTB, the corona pass. As a group, we voted against introduction because at that time we were aware of the sensitivity to fraud and its possible unreliableness. Introduction could lead to dangerous false safety. In addition, my group had serious doubts about its feasibility in practice. 50PLUS does not understand that at present a CTB for visitors, which does not apply to the staff, is mandatory for gyms, restaurants and libraries, but lacks the same obligation for visitors to healthcare institutions. I have already mentioned it in the debate with Mr Backer of D66. We can say with certainty that people in health care institutions have vulnerable health and must be protected in optima forma. Then why isn't there a CTB for visitors here? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. 50PLUS is pleased that the Minister of JenV can block false or improper CTBs. We believe that this is also a necessary measure. We would like to hear from him from whom the well-founded suspicion exists exactly which leads to the conclusion that a CTB has been obtained through fraud or abuse. Can the Minister specify this further? Does research only take place on websites where CTBs are offered? I got another one on my phone this morning. How's the tracking of trade in CTBs going out there? Does the Minister consider that there is a good chance that inspectors will actually make a declaration in the event of a legitimate suspicion of misuse of a CTB? In the event that auditors file a report, are they part of a criminal offence? Then what is the description of the crime? My group understood that abuse of a CTB could be described as an offence involving seven days of detention or a fine of €59. Would it help to bring these sanctions more to the attention of the general public, so that they can take preventive action, I ask the Minister? And finally, is there any possibility that a coronacheck scanner will be manipulated so that a green check mark will always appear? And if so, does this result in an isolated criminal offence? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a warm thanks to the Minister of VWS and his staff for the very careful and comprehensive answer to the written questions. Well, that's a good thing to say. I hope it continues for these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u121	I would like to return to the point made by Mrs Baay about the combination of influenza vaccine and corona vaccination. Do I understand from this that you consider that the public authorities have failed to provide information on this matter? Apparently you don't know, and maybe there are a lot of people who don't know. Should the public authorities intensify information and information in this area, and perhaps in other areas as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u122	Absolutely. This knowledge is too short for many people. That's why people start having doubts about possible side effects, especially in combination with that flu vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u123	I understand from this that you support our call for more active information and also disinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u124	I fully agree with providing the right and careful information to anyone who needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u125	That's not a yes yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u126	Thank you. Then the floor is for Mrs Prins to speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u127	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, as a society, we must learn to live with the covid virus. It's not easy for all of us. In fact, society is becoming more polarized and even radicalized. The vaccinated woman who has been waiting for a major surgery for weeks and therefore gets angry at her neighbor who doesn't want to be vaccinated and then keeps a place on the ic occupied by covid for weeks. A vaccinated student who wonders if the government realizes that because he has been vaccinated, he can really go to that festival. Whether the catering entrepreneur who adheres neatly to the rules of the corona tickets but with his eyes should look that the café on the other side does not do so and therefore attracts more visitors. Or that ic nurse who has to wear her protection outfit again to help a covid patient and meanwhile gets an app from her girlfriend that's angry because she can't go to winter sports. Just a few examples from everyday practice that illustrate that the covid virus attracts deep traces in our society. Solidarity, trust in one another and in the government are under increasing pressure. Discussions about individual freedom of choice of vaccination versus responsibility for public health are sometimes conducted carefully and carefully, but unfortunately also often accusing and even threatening. After all, it is bizarre and it is decided to reject the fact that general practitioners no longer dare to speak about the corona virus because they are threatened. That scientists receive guidance after a TV performance, not to mention the violent threats to the members of our cabinet. Unfortunately, therefore, we have to note that the covid virus is far more sickening than it is because of a covid contamination of an unfortunately growing number of citizens, causing the care sector to crack in its joints, delaying planned but critical operations and no longer planning catching-up care, overloading hospitals and doctors and nurses. But above all, the coronavirus ensures that differences between people grow into unbridgeable differences of understanding and, above all, of mutual removal. In families, in families, but also between groups in our society. The CDA Group is concerned about this growing polarisation and even radicalisation in various groups. Concerns about falling confidence in the government. A democracy stands or falls by listening to each other, to the majority and to the minority. Respect each other's opinions, finding the right balance between freedom and responsibility, for yourself and your neighbor. That is certainly not always easy, this is evident in these times. However, not only should attention be paid here to the fight against the virus, but also to the growing and sharp contradictions in our country. Even though the current cabinet is outgoing, the CDA Group believes that policies and plans need to be developed as a matter of urgency to counter further polarisation and radicalisation. A committee of experts could take this forward as an input to this policy for the current or new cabinet. I'd like a commitment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u128	I share the concerns about the far-reaching radicalisation that Mrs Prins expresses. I see all this happening with very poor eyes, and that is completely out of control, even with certain politicians. How does Mrs. Prince think she's gonna solve this? What's it gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u129	What is needed is respect for each other on the one hand. Yes, that is the basis, responsibility for yourself and your own behavior, but also respect for the behavior of the other and in that way enter into conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u130	Yeah, but these are guys who don't have a single message. I have therefore said earlier in this Chamber, in the summer of the examination of the legislative proposal for an extension of the scope for banning legal persons, that the public prosecutor has a duty here too, that this is now so out of control. We've seen the riots in Rotterdam. Those are world news. I don't know what it was like with you, but I got a call from all kinds of people from all over the world: what the hell is going on in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u131	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u132	Is there a task for the D.A. to do something here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u133	Oh, yeah. I will come back to that in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u134	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution by saying that we have to learn to live with this virus and that this learning is bad for us. Many of us are quite self-conscious. They do not allow themselves to be tested for complaints or stay at home, find the use of the corona access card difficult and unnecessary, or simply refuse to introduce the measures. Unfortunately, therefore, as a CDA group, we find ourselves in a downward spiral due to ease, denial of the seriousness of the situation and lack of enforcement. If many do not comply with the measures and supervision and enforcement is marginal, this will lead to more infections and therefore more hospitalisations. This leads to an overload of care, which means that new, heavier measures are needed. For example, last week in the Lower House, the law on the use of corona tickets in non-essential shops and services has been adopted and there are already talks about whether or not 3G or 2G and even a lockdown. Which in turn leads to even more polarization and anger of vaccinees, non-vaccines, care workers, catering and other entrepreneurs. In addition, the measures announced are also increasingly complex in their implementation and thus in their enforcement. This complexity in implementation means that they are less and less well explained and can be applied in practice. This leads to questions about the effectiveness of a measure and to misunderstanding, irritation and anger. Measures will only be effective if they are properly enforceable, explanatory and enforceable. As far as we are concerned, this enforcement is not adequate. Fortunately, we understand that the government, in this case the Minister of Justice and Security, has indicated that enforcement has been too limited and that more resources need to be made available. Our question is: what can and will the Cabinet do to visibly increase its commitment to monitoring and enforcement? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The people in care, especially the nurses who work for covid patients, have it hard, too heavy. Many leave care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u136	Excuse me, may I request some rest in the room, including with the messengers? Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u137	Many leave care, others are ill, which increases the pressure on the permanent nurses. We ask the cabinet to work together with the people in the care in a structural way to see how the work remains attractive for the nurses. Many ic nurses experience the work with covid patients as not appropriate to their education and ambition. Is there anything to be done about special training for this type of disease? Is there anything to do about the hours? I would like a reaction from the cabinet on how they can make the work in care attractive again, now and in the future. Speaking of the future, the CDA Group has already requested that, on the basis of scenario planning, a policy be developed for the coming years in which the corona virus. or any other contagious virus is present. The WRR and the KNAW have done this in the meantime. They have worked out five scenarios, from Back to Normal, Flu+, External Threat, Continuous Fight and Sausage Case. They also make some recommendations, such as: anticipate the different scenarios, so that we do not always get caught up and have to take ad hoc decisions. Devote to broad social resilience, protect the values of the democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of VWS has indicated in the Lower House that he expects a fifth extension to come and that he "will send the Lower House a letter of procedure before Christmas, with a look at how we may have some articles from the Temporary Law introducing measures in the Wpg, prior to an actual revision of the Wpg. A final review of this law will be carried out later, after, among other things, the investigation has been completed by the Security Research Council." The CDA Group believes that after two years of living with temporary laws, it is time to develop more structural and predictable policies, so as to manage expectations in society. Is it not now time to start a social debate, based on the above-mentioned scenarios, the recommendations and experiences of the past period, on how to design from different perspectives, such as the constitutional perspective and the perspective of care, economics and well-being, behaviour and policies, and on what legislation and regulations are needed for this purpose, we ask the Minister, so that after two years we can stop using temporary legislation which is constantly asking for treatment in both chambers with the accompanying commotion? Here too, despite the outgoing status of the cabinet, our view is that we cannot wait. While the cabinet is working very hard to manage the current crisis, our proposal is to instruct other bodies, such as the WRR and the Academy, to further develop the recommendations. I'd like a commitment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u138	I have said before that nothing is as permanent as temporary measures. This is evident from what the CDA is proposing now, namely to use these measures permanently. But the problem lies mainly in the restrictive nature of these measures, rather than the temporary nature. Shouldn't we just say that we should stop these socially severe constraints, which have been announced as temporary? We need to be able to get rid of that at some point, instead of making it permanent. How's the CDA looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u139	Our vision is that if restrictions are needed, you will have to choose for them, even if it is temporary. However, we believe that it is possible to define this more structurally, which also makes it clear to society that if certain values have been exceeded, the next step must unfortunately be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u140	So the CDA actually says that the imposition of restrictions is a form of state coercion that simply has to come into law permanently as an option, so that it can be deployed immediately as a cabinet deems necessary. At the same time, the CDA talks about not polarizing too much. Is this permanent use of such restrictions not just extra polarizing towards society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u141	On the contrary, as well as the Public Health Act itself is not polarizing and everyone is happy that he is there, we should be able to do so with such an extension of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u142	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u143	It is true that such a law is used polarizingly. There is now a constant threat in rather compelling press conferences with "more measures" and "there is 2G"; increasing and widening. Does this not exactly lead to polarisation, especially with this legislation in hand, and also with the prospect that it will be made permanent, as proposed by the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u144	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u145	No, on the contrary. In this respect, I think that we should first look at ourselves, all the citizens of the Netherlands, as far as the increasingly stringent measures are concerned. Do we take the right basic measures? If we did that, we could have prevented a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u146	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u147	Finally, Mr. Chairman. We are meeting here today because of the third extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which runs in exactly one week. On the day the law ends, the First Chamber can still vote. Very kindly said: that feels uncomfortable and actually a bit laughable. An appeal on our part is to shorten such a period of time, which also shows respect for the role and function of the First Chamber. We are curious about the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Mr Janssen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u149	Mr President, thank you. Let me begin by thinking a little bit more about the government's filling in the decisive power for Parliament on the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. It will not surprise the Minister, because I repeat that in times of crisis there is a need for more democracy and not less. It is clear that if we as the First Chamber can only have a debate one week before the expiry of the extension on whether this extension deserves parliamentary approval, this does not do justice to the decisive control as it is regulated by law. That is certainly the case with the cabinet. In my group's view, the late submission of the proposal in question, some days before the start of the extension, will make it impossible to deal with Parliament in a timely manner. In replying to the written questions on this subject, the Minister says that it is all in accordance with the rules. But can the Ministers answer the question as to why they choose to submit an extension KB and its approval law at such a late date? That is a choice, because it could be much earlier. The law is simple, you change the dates and it's just about the extension. There's nothing that opposes it. In this way, the cabinet gives its own interpretation to Parliament's legally anchored power as co-legislator, which, in my group's view, is inappropriate, undesirable and unnecessary. So it has to be different, because in this way Parliament is hampered in its co-legislative role. I read in the written replies: "This follow-up procedure establishes the control of both Chambers over an extension already established, but not the involvement of both Chambers prior to an extension." But that's too easy. In the event of a timely submission of the approval law, the determining control can be dealt with in a parliamentary manner before the extension takes effect, which is due to the intended functioning of the approval law, but then you should want it to be done as a cabinet. My group notes that this will is lacking. In a week's time, the fourth extension is due, but there's no KB and no approval law yet. The cabinet still appears to act in the spirit of the first version of the Twm: for a year rule by royal decree. That's gonna hurt the trust. It harms Parliament's trust, it damages Parliament's trust in the cabinet and it damages society's confidence in politics as a whole. The Chambers are about their own agenda, says the Minister in the written reply. Yes, it is, but can the Minister indicate how often, in this crisis, the cabinet has called on Parliament to amend the agenda and to deal with laws as a matter of urgency, even during periods of rece tration? Will the Ministers then oppose the way in which they deal with this and it is considered that the next Act of Approval for the extension of the Twm will also be adopted? In my group's view, this will show a democratic awareness that needs to be improved. Royal decisions for renewal and the corresponding approval laws can be submitted much earlier, but these ministers deliberately do not choose to do so, as I mentioned earlier. The fourth extension was announced at the beginning of November. Then why isn't a KB being struck right away and an approval law being sent to the Chambers? After all, the urgency was already clear at the time. I would like to respond to this point, as the VWS Minister has announced not only the fourth but also the fifth extension, which should start on 1 March 2022. As others have more or less done, I would ask the Ministers to give a commitment that a law on the approval of an extension of the Twm will not be submitted three days before the date of its introduction, as has happened today, but at the latest three weeks before the date of its entry into force, so that Parliament can also do justice to the intention of the law and deal with it in good time. More democracy and not less in times of crisis. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, this is also the time to look back and judge how the cabinet has used the powers of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 for a year and what effects that has had. In my group's opinion, the common thread of cabinet trade in a year of Twm is best summarized by the word 'hard learners', a word that we could read regularly in analyses. There seems to be little learning from previous mistakes. The behaviour of the cabinet remains reactive and is characterised by late measures and early relaxations, which are repeated and repeated with the same result, i.e. a short-term of relaxation followed by a long-term of heavy measures. A finding that recently also did the recently closed Red Team. The WHO, the World Health Organisation, is also deeply concerned about the situation and sees premature relaxation as an important cause of the depth of the crisis currently in Europe. How then is it possible that so little has been learned and that it is persisting in this action? It won't be, I hope, but I'm not going to assume it, but I'm just asking just to be sure that, as we could read last week about the Council of State and the Surcharges affair, the continuation of a once-chosen route is being preferred to making a move towards new insights? Choose to continue on a dead-end path above learning the past. I would like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet, in its own words, attaches great importance to the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, the OMT. But the question that arises is whether the OMT is still sufficiently distant from the cabinet to be able to advise independently, as I have already pointed out before, even before the summer. The group mind is lurking in such a lengthy process and that is also explainable. But can the OMT make an objective assessment of the current crisis and take a critical look at their own previous opinions as well? Is there sufficient counterpower, both within the OMT and in the relationship between OMT and the cabinet? I have noticed that OMT members are no longer confined to what they have been appointed for, namely scientific advice in their field of expertise to advise the government in this crisis. A doctor microbiologist may of course have his own opinion on separate measures for unvaccinated people who may be polarising for society, but that opinion should not be announced as OMT member in the media prior to the discussion on the following opinion. An OMT member is supposed to advise from, for example, what I just mentioned, his art or skill as a doctor microbiologist and he or she should limit himself or herself to the effects of measures on the containment of infections. I am not interested in pointing the finger at the OMT or its members, but you can see that a process of group thinking and co-direction is taking place here. Do the ministers see this and how are the ministers going to ensure the purity of the OMT's role? Mr. Chairman. A few comments on the OMT opinions. I have already spoken about this in previous debates, and in particular about the way in which the cabinet deals with the opinions. One time an opinion is a justification for a measure because the OMT advises it, another time the OMT advises something, but then it's just an opinion. Also snowing in the translations made by the cabinet of the OMT opinions, the conditions still sometimes underneath. I mentioned earlier in previous debates the opinion on the opening of secondary schools. According to the OMT, secondary schools could open if a number of strict conditions were met in implementation. The cabinet translated this as "the OMT says the secondary schools can open." But testing all students twice a week was such a strict condition, and none of that came to pass. What lingered was the message from the cabinet that the schools could open according to the OMT. And that creates confusion. Last week we heard Diederik Gommers talking about this, about the cabinet that uses the OMT as an alibi where it comes out. Mr Gommers says that the OMT cannot defend itself against this. But why does the OMT keep so quiet about that? Why wouldn't the OMT be able to respond to that? Or is the OMT calling the cabinet on that? Does Jaap van Dissel slap the fist on the table and call the ministers to order? That is the question I would like to have answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u150	May I ask the honourable Member whether I understand him correctly, because he is making a very interesting point. He himself also took responsibility for all kinds of administrative situations in which he also received expert opinions and in which he had to make a decision. He says it's crazy that the OMT is expressing all kinds of opinions outside the OMT. I personally find that rather special too, but now he seems to encourage the OMT to contradict the cabinet. And then I'm out of my mind. Can he help me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u151	I want the OMT to rebut the cabinet within the advice it gives, that if the cabinet as directors wants something from the science it is for, the OMT will do something about it. I want there to be sufficient counterpower in that. I also want the OMT to feel that its opinions, such as those on the opening of the schools that I mentioned as an example, are not properly reflected or reflected in the way they did not mean it, they can speak out about it. That is something else, from their role as OMT and from the advice they have issued. That's different than someone who happens to be an OMT member, who has an opinion on a social point that plays and publicly, prior to the discussion they still need to have in the OMT, gives an opinion that is not in their field of expertise. I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u152	Then I understand that it is actually more about textexegesis, so we, OMT, have not said it, rather than that it is a rebuttal of a decision taken, because it is getting messy. And I don't think that's what Mr Janssen means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u153	No, the OMT advises what the OMT advises. If that is translated in the wrong way, I think the OMT should say: it is not translated properly, because that is not what we meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u154	What is different from what the OMT says: we do not agree with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u155	That's up to the drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u156	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u157	That's the difference between consulting and driving. On this point of not taking up opinions, I ask how the Ministers assess the impact of giving up opinions such as 'it's only an opinion and we make our own assessment', when we expect society at the same time, time and time again, that opinions are followed and not weighed up. It is an urgent and urgent advice to do something. Someone can say: I've thought about that, but I'm still making my own assessment. What the cabinet does in policy, so do citizens, we see in society. How does the government see the effect of one's own actions on that point? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we know that "temporary" and "short" relative concepts are also an example of unclear handling of advice. Not everything advised by the OMT was taken over. And again, measures were added, which were not recommended. How does that work? What about measures to be added by the cabinet outside the OMT opinion? Where did these measures come from? Is Mr Van Dissel remaining for an hour at the Catshuis to explore some possibilities? Are these measures coming from the Ministry of Home Affairs? Is it cut and pasted from earlier advice? Or did the ministers come up with something of their own? I ask this because the OMT has come up with a balanced opinion on a package of measures, which it has considered how these measures interact. If you pull pieces out of them and you're going to add other things, the effect becomes completely unclear and not followable to the outside world. How can we assess whether a package of measures such as the OMT opinion, together with a supplement, is going to have the desired effect? As I have just said, it is the administrative role to see whether things need to be changed and what measures need to be taken. Of course, other forces are working on that. This was also asked in the House of Representatives: look at the economic motives, look at the consequences, look at the social consequences. That's all good, but it's got to be followable. And that's what I'm wrong about getting cut and stuck in an OMT advice, where one has to do something because it's an advice and another time it doesn't have to do something, because it's just an advice. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the actuality. I am not going to talk today about all the measures we are about to deal with here, I expect in the coming weeks, given the urgency. As a country and as a society, we are in a very bad situation. We're heading hard for code black in the care, although not yet in the next week, it's said. The situation appears to have been too bright for too long. Society is exhausted by the gejojo with measures. People can't make it anymore. That's because there are always repairs. This exhaustion applies not only to society, but also, and perhaps most importantly, to the people in care, who have to get the hot coal out of the fire again. Our appreciation for them and thanks to them cannot be great enough. The same appreciation also applies to the people of police, fire and ambulance. You're just gonna have to stand there the moment this happens. It is too serious to make a joke about this now, but last week I saw a big sign with the text: because of corona measures, I would like a homework obligation for rioters. Then they can beat up their own stuff. That would be a very easy solution, but I'm afraid they're not going to stick to it either. The situation is extremely serious. It shows that there are groups that are taking advantage of everything to be able to make trouble and mess. They have absolutely nothing to do with it, I heard that last night mayor Aboutaleb also say to the people who rightly stand up for their opinion and who can also demonstrate for what they believe in and what they support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u158	I fully agree with what Mr Janssen said. But, as with Mrs Prins, I say to Mr Janssen: you are in the process of naming the matter. What's the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u159	What is the solution to what, Mr. Otten, I ask through the chairman. What do you want a solution for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u160	It's getting all out of hand in society. That's what other speakers just reminded me. There are riots, there is a lack of trust in the cabinet. You say it yourself: yojo policy. Even if they do everything right now, people aren't gonna follow it because they don't trust it anymore. So what is the solution of the SP to restore that confidence to the population? That is my question to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u161	There are a number of assumptions in Mr Otten's speech which I do not entirely follow. But the solution would be to learn from the mistakes of the past. You have heard me argue this in detail, as the former Red Team said, and as the World Health Organisation also says. Don't wait until it's too late, but come up with measures sooner. Those are sometimes harder measures, which you have to take sooner to avoid worse. That's what happens when I look at the interview on 1 November with one of the founders of the Red Team, I think in Trouw, who also said: "There must always be that political stuff I will say weeks before we come to a measure. So we are too late with measures and we want to relax too early, with the result that people are having a good time and after that are in trouble again for a very long time." That is the motive my group sees over the past year, and something must be done about it. We are in that situation again. That's what we need to get out of now. That means: yes, speed up intervention and not relax prematurely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u162	I note that these mistakes are made every time, so with this crew in the cockpit I don't expect the plane to fly better. In fact, I think it's going the wrong way. Something must be done to restore authority and confidence in the government. I don't hear the SP about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u163	It's a little late to start another election debate now, but we've had elections. The outcome is what it is. We're gonna have to do it with that. We hope and we continue to insist that there is learning capacity in the outgoing cabinet and also in a new cabinet to ensure that that circle we see will be broken over the past year and that it will happen in a different way. I fully agree with the other words of Mrs Prins, who said: something must be done about this Twm now, we must move towards permanent measures, because where we were all told before the summer, 'Die Twm, that is probably all there is to it, perhaps another measure that remains in it, but it will not propose much more', we are now waiting for an extension of that Twm. That's a slightly different picture, so two years of temporaryity is far too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u164	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u165	This was just part of my speech. I've got a minute and a half left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u166	Mr. Janssen already knows what question he's going to get, because we've already talked about that in advance. Thank you for your speech. I also agree with what you have said about the aid workers, the police and the fire department, who are in a very difficult and difficult situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u167	Your question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u168	I'd like to join in on that. My group voted against the instrument of the adoption law last time. We had a number of considerations which, of course, you did not share. One of the things you said at the time is: yes, but that approval law is not to vote against the Twm. Now you know, as I do, that the Socialist Group in the House of Representatives has voted against this extension decision. So I was actually curious and a bit awaiting what your group is going to do. Are you going to vote in favour of this extension decision? You yourself have indicated in detail that there is probably another one coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u169	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u170	Will you vote in favour of this and can you take me with you why your House of Representatives in fact simply says 'we are voting against the Temporary Law measures', while you still say so convincingly and legally: that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u171	Thank you. I'd like a concise answer, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u172	I did not say that there should be no vote against and no vote against. I said there must be a choice. That parliament says yes or no. That's the point. The aim is not to organise a vote against. The goal is to create that opportunity. That's what happened. Then everyone makes their own decision. My group in the House of Representatives has done the same, and we will do the same here, but not after we, knowing that the law is there, voted against the Twm because we did not think it was the right instrument and found the law ill-organised................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then, as it should be, we shall be making our minds up after the debate. Our group in the Lower House was against the Twm, so was against the extension. That is the easy answer, but that would not do the group any good. Our group in the House of Representatives believes that the Twm is not being used properly at the moment and that there is too much recourse to emergency measures. She still has great objections to the Twm as it is now used. That's why she voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u173	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u174	Moreover, my colleague was unable to attend the legislative consultation at the time, because he had to skip the legislative consultation due to colds in accordance with the rules. I would remind you of that for the people who say: hey, the SP didn't even participate in the debate. That was for this reason. Finally, the implementation of the clearance law. The cabinet says it's all true, according to the letter of the law. In my group's view, however, it is de facto incorrect in its implementation. My group deeply regrets the fact that the cabinet believes that this is the way to deal with Parliament's decisive influence in the extension of the Twm, because it can be otherwise, as I have pointed out in detail. We are therefore looking forward with interest to the Minister's answers. Those answers will undoubtedly be part of the judgment we make about this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u175	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman, on behalf of the VVD Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u176	Mr President, I would like to take off my mouth cap because my glasses are different. Without it, we can't. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the adoption of the third extension of the duration of the temporary measures by three months, from 1 September to 1 December. This means that if we vote for this law next week, the law will be valid for exactly ten hours at that time. The VVD Group therefore wonders how useful the procedure also desired by this Chamber is at a time when developments follow each other faster than the legislator can keep pace. Perhaps it is the more pragmatic approach of my group that we are setting priorities. These are now aimed at further filling the toolbox in order to combat the pandemic, rather than continuing the discussion on this extension decision. It is obvious, given the stage in which the pandemic is currently in place, that the Temporary Law measures should be extended. My group will also vote in favour of this proposal. And I see that we are also going to vote in favour of a fourth extension decision. With regard to the three-month extension of the Temporary Act, my group also wonders whether this is still appropriate in a situation in which, as it now appears, the virus will remain among us for many years to come. When is the government coming up with a strategy that looks ahead for longer than today's contagions and bed occupancys? What does this mean for legislation? Surely we can't keep extending it for three months in this way? The VVD Group in the House of Representatives, which asked the same questions, received the answer that the temporary measures would lapse at some point. But this suggests that they would no longer be necessary in the fight against this pandemic. But what if this is still necessary for the coming years? Will we continue to extend them every three months? I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister also states in a letter to the House of Representatives that before the end of the year the policy agenda for pandemic preparedness should be submitted. But we also read in the letter that this policy agenda does not relate to the current pandemic and its fight. Isn't there something missing here? Given the current picture of the pandemic, is it not high time to include this society in the most likely scenarios of this pandemic, as indicated in the WRR report and the KNAW opinion, and to develop policies for that too? I'd also like a reaction to this. I also agree with Mrs Prins' questions about this. Then I'm off the approval bill at the toolbox. During the plenary debate on the extension procedure of the temporary measures in July, I asked the Minister whether he was prepared to amend the legal framework so as to be able to apply the corona access card to the workplace if necessary. In writing at the beginning of October, my group once again called for clarity in the short term or the wider use of the corona access card in the care sector. I agree with Mrs Baay's questions on this matter and on the workplace. The VVD Group also informed about the application of 2G. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we are running behind the facts again. After all, a careful legislative process takes time, but if the legislator does not work until the water is in the water, then we are always too late. The result now is that we are back in a partial lockdown, in order to create time to bring necessary legislation such as the one I have just mentioned into the process as a matter of urgency. At least that was the argument last week, but now reality has caught up with us again: the measures to slow down the spread of the virus are no longer sufficient and further measures may be expected. In a crisis you cannot see everything coming, but you can prepare yourself for a number of scenarios and possibly make decisions. Why are we failing in this? Debate and democratic decision-making are a valuable asset, but it does not necessarily lead to the best outcome in a crisis. Because you can't pold the virus away. We really need to be more proactive, including as a parliament, in thinking about measures that should be necessary to be able to anticipate sufficiently the erratic nature of the virus. As long as we do not have the virus underneath, we will be asked to continue making difficult choices, on the one hand to protect public health and on the other hand to protect individual freedoms. Of course, it is not good for liberals to point out that individual freedoms are not unlimited and can be restricted under conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u177	I can go a long way with Mrs De Bruijn when she says she misses the fact that there are scenarios ready for different packages of measures and for different situations. I just don't understand her next sentence that democratic control and poldering would contradict that. I think it is up to the government to outline these scenarios, to make a choice in them and then to inform Parliament about the choice between the scenarios. We can do that soon. So I see no contradiction between working with scenarios and making full use of democratic control. Perhaps a more detailed explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u178	Thank you for this question. What you are seeing at the moment is that before there are any proposals there are indeed all kinds of negotiations already taking place in Parliament, for example, and that really is not just about coalition and opposition to take over or not take over certain measures. So it's not just the cabinet that makes choices. Moreover, you can also see that the House of Representatives is very often in front of it, and publicly, in the democratic debate. Okay, I get that, but at some point a crisis sometimes really calls for a more managerial way of indicating: this is what we're going to do! Perhaps the role of the cabinet should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u179	Yes, but is that brainstorming about all the possibilities? Is it not due to the lack of presentation of multiple scenarios, so that at least the framework is clear about what is being discussed? I agree with you that we are now talking in all directions, but it is up to the cabinet to outline the frameworks and to make choices in them. I see it mainly as strengthening each other and think that scenarios can also strengthen democratic control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u180	There are many scenarios, but those scenarios are still not there. At least they are not being worked out openly and we do not have the talk about it openly. But we can see now that the debate is very broad about every measure, while the virus is not waiting for us to take the right measures on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u181	I have a clear question to ask to see the VVD's argument in the right light. Does the VVD fraction think that corona is going to become endemic, or that we can get rid of the virus like polio altogether, or almost completely? That explanation is important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u182	I wish I knew the answer to that. I'm not a scientist either, so I wish I knew the answer to that. I do think that we should take different options into account. You have probably also seen what the WRR scenarios are, from endemic to flu-plus to indeed every time a strong revival with all kinds of mutants and that sort of thing. I wish I knew the answer to that, but I think we need to be clear that this kind of bandwidth is in it when it comes to what we should do in what situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u183	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u184	I already had that discussion on the endemic situation with Minister De Jonge last July, when the Minister also indicated: we are moving towards an endemic situation. But apart from that, the remark I just heard from Mrs De Bruijn from the VVD is that the cabinet must have more perseverance. Now here we have a missionary cabinet, which has been a missionary for months now, perhaps for almost a year. Should such a cabinet be given such great powers to exercise control over society, whereby parliament, and thus democracy, must take a step back? Is that what the VVD is proposing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u185	In what the VVD suggests, Mr. Van Hattem might just recognize a few things. You say: these are the possible scenarios that can take place. You're open and transparent about that. Then you put a framework under that: in that situation we must do so and in that situation we come up with these measures. But the point is that you can also take those measures when that situation occurs. We are still very much in the process of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u186	I can understand your scenarios, but the fact that the Cabinet has such a power of perseverance implies that you give it a power of attorney to take such perhaps very far-reaching steps. Doesn't that put the VVD out of Parliament unnecessarily?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u187	Thank you for this question. I see it as an enlightening question, so thank you for that. No, parliament is about the front frames. Only, these frameworks may need to be expanded. A short while ago, the Public Health Act came by. In fact, the Public Health Act had in itself how to act in a pandemic. There's a reporting obligation for that. You can take quarantine measures and all that stuff. In fact, that is a framework in case a pandemic indeed occurs according to a particular type. Such frameworks proved insufficient for this pandemic, because they often require much more sophisticated measures. Let's fill that toolbox up. That's what I'm about to talk about. That is what we as Parliament are talking about: what do we want or do not want in that toolbox? But if there is, then the measures must also be able to be taken at the time when the situation that we have expressed ourselves on has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u188	Thank you. So you're going to talk about that now. Shall we leave it at that, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u189	Mr President, perhaps very briefly. Let's turn it around. So you could be concerned that the cabinet might be taking too easy and too fickle measures. Then we should say as a parliament: we first create our own frameworks, which we clearly focus on, and the cabinet is not going to take steps that we have not agreed to with the cabinet. Maybe that's the other direction we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u190	I do not hear a question in that, but I suggest that you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u191	I believe that the relaxation measures were also motivated by the then pandemic situation and the question of whether it was still proportionate to continue to take certain measures. So even in this proportionality weighting, perhaps we need to create a little more space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u192	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u193	I need to see where I left off, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the VVD is all about maintaining or restoring freedom as much as possible. A new lockdown, for which everyone's freedom is restricted, is therefore very difficult to digest, especially since we do not have legal arrangements for less far-reaching measures in order. In the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, all this is also due to a disproportionate orientation towards a minority, or a small minority, which is quite concerned about freedom of choice, without wishing to bear the consequences. I have already dealt with this in an interruption. For liberals who attach great importance to individual freedom, the freedom of the individual is limited to where the freedom or security of another individual is at risk. This principle is also used by the VVD Group in assessing legislative proposals. That is how we look at the corona policy. Are people free to choose vaccination or not? As long as it is justified in the context of public health, please. But there may also be circumstances in which, in order to protect public health, a government has to make a different assessment. Let us above all hope that this will never be the case. It is therefore all the more important to have as much less far-reaching measures as possible in our toolbox in order to limit the effects of the pandemic. Should catering operators and concert organizers, to give you two examples, be able to take measures so that some people who are at great risk of becoming ill may temporarily not participate in activities they organise, the so-called 2G regime? I would prefer not to, but if this is proportional and can therefore prevent a healthcare infarction or if it is to prevent health damage from others who do not receive the care they need, then that should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u194	So now the VVD goes on tour: there is a small minority who does not want to be vaccinated and their rights should be restricted in certain cases. That is what the VVD believes to be justified in order to provide protection with regard to the corona spread. But vaccinees can also infect each other. This has now been demonstrated in detail and is endorsed by medical science. A lot of vaccinees are infected by other vaccinees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u195	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u196	Isn't this what the VVD is doing to put that group of unvaccinated people away as a risk and, at the same time, create a false safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u197	I'm not putting the unvaccinated as a risk group. I'm just saying they're at extra risk of getting seriously ill. As part of the mission to protect public health, you can make a different assessment. The figures also show that if you are not vaccinated, the chance of getting seriously ill is six times greater than when you have been vaccinated. I think we should keep telling that story every time, without wanting to put people away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u198	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u199	But the total number of vaccinees that can infect each other, currently the largest group, also puts a great strain on the care in total numbers. Then why are these measures being considered? Mrs De Bruijn of the VVD made it very clear that she took this into account in the consideration of these measures. Then why does she put the ball down to what she calls the small group unvaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u200	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u201	It is the total number that unfortunately gets sick, some of which also get sick after they have been vaccinated, which currently burdens care. I believe that society must do everything in its power to prevent that volume from increasing, regardless of what it means to suffer for someone to end up in such intensive care. You must inform the people who are not being vaccinated so that they are aware of the choice they are making. It's a tragedy when you get there. We must do everything we can to reduce the total volume of people who are seriously ill and to reduce them as little as possible. Vaccin's part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u202	Let me be clear: did I hear Mrs De Bruijn say that there could be a time when the government would have to enforce vaccination? If so, how does that moment look in her vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u203	I don't think we've gotten there yet with regard to corona. I'm saying it in a general sense. That's how you see my comment. The epidemic has made us surprises every time. Each time, the scenarios that we hope will come out, for example with regard to the vaccination rate, do not come out. We have seen that the virus has now suddenly mutated to a much more contagious variant, which means that the vaccination rate has to go much further than we initially expected. I can't predict what possible dangerous mutations of this virus or possibly any other virus will ever come to us, so you have to make such a decision. That's why I never say "never."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u204	I understand Mrs. de Bruijn never says "never." However, you note that it can happen and you say it in a general sense. In general, I would like to have an answer that may or may not be in line with your earlier ethical statements and that we can also be constitutionally accountable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u205	I don't think I understand you very well. I'd like to hear what kind of answer you want from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u206	You said you made a general remark. Making a general remark is sometimes a bit dangerous, in all honesty. I ask you, in your general answer, to reflect more clearly on the Constitution, which also identifies the integrity of the human body.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u207	Clear. The integrity of the body is a great asset. We will both agree with that. But it is also not absolute in the Constitution. This is also about proportionality. For example, I think that testing every time is also a serious breach of the integrity of the body. Individually, you can also weigh things differently. You are asking for an answer in a general sense. The comparison is sometimes made with the Ebola virus. What if the Ebola virus is going around here, which has a very high mortality rate? We are asked whether we think that we should never say 'never' to a mandatory vaccination to protect society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u208	It's another question. The third and final question, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u209	What I'm happy about is that you're going a little deeper. I myself would rather talk about the fact that this can lead to great dilemmas, which we need to talk about in that context. Personally, I am cautious about general statements, because everyone can go along with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u210	Thank you for that. My story comes up in such a way that it is indeed about dilemmas, which we are talking about. I will outline a number of dilemmas which lead us to make considerations and choices with our liberal background.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u211	I would like to go into this with a slightly different approach. If I am not mistaken, I have also heard my VVD colleague about the concerns about trust in the government, etc. Referring to what you are now saying about a possible vaccination obligation, I understand that you would never say "never." However, the reality is that Parliament has said once again: never coercion, not duty. Now we are half a year further and we speculate about it quietly. What does that do with the trust people have in government? Don't you underestimate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u212	You assert trust in the government, but by avoiding these kinds of conversations, we are not taking people into the difficult choices we face at this time either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u213	Last time, then, briefly. I understand, but the people also see that such a motion is passed across the street, even unanimously, in my view. A few months later, the opposite is kept open. That's gonna do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u214	I'm aware of that, but I think this whole coronapandemic is doing something to us. I think we all thought about the beginning: if there is a vaccine, there is light at the end of the tunnel. If that light turns out to be less bright than we had imagined, then we need to discuss this kind of dilemmas with each other. I believe that the conference room of the country is the place to do so, and that is why I am raising the matter. Thank you for your questions too, because they only deepen the debate. Thank you. I still have a dilemma. Should data protection be above all else? If that's possible: yes, of course, please. But not if it leads to disproportionate disadvantages for, for example, essential data collection in the fight against pandemics. In my opinion, we have also thought differently about this at the beginning than we have now looked back on it afterwards. Anyway, that's from the evaluation. I think we'd have made other choices by now. Mr. Chairman. I had another question about the corona pass and possibly blocking it if someone is tested positive for corona. Because of the way we set up the app, the corona access card cannot be blocked at the moment. For example, I note that the other European countries which also have a GDPR regime as we know it make other considerations. Through our international QR code, the data about your identity and about where and when you have been vaccinated are visible to everyone, for example. My question to the Minister is: is it perhaps possible to achieve that temporary blockade for the QR code through the international database? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. By naming some of these dilemmas and sketching out a balancing framework, the VVD Group is moving forward, including for the legislation that may still be underway. Corona legislation presents us all with difficult dilemmas, but society does require clear answers from us. Finally. The laws must be enforceable and enforceable. We see that this corona legislation is a big bottleneck. The check on the corona pass needs to be improved. Since the disco peak, insufficient progress has been made in this area. If some mayors say in advance that they are not going to enforce because of insufficient enforcement capacity, then at least as a government you are not sending the right signal. Of course, we also see that there is a shortage of enforcement and of police officers. There is a very difficult task on these people. But there is also a lack of care staff. They too are overloaded. However, I do not yet hear caregivers say that they will therefore no longer provide care. They do set priorities, because care is being scaled down again. By saying that you don't do something, you immediately send a wrong signal to others. As an example, I would like to mention the catering entrepreneur who is also difficult to access staff. Then why would he organize the access control? Can the Minister in the Security Council once again pay attention to the communication style of mayors and the impact they have on citizens' compliance behaviour? C'est le ton qui fait la musique. If we have to do it together, a mayor can better say: it's all very annoying and we don't really have enough people, but we too are going to do our stinking best to do what is expected of us in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u215	That brings you to the end of your speech, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u216	I have one comment to make on the motions in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u217	No, because your speaking time is long past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u218	I know, Mr. Chairman, but I still have something on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u219	Why don't you fix it for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u220	I'm done. Sorry about the motions. Mr Van Hattem has tabled four motions this morning. He did so in the first term, so I assume you expect us to respond to that, if necessary. I read the motions. I see that in fact it is just all the motions that relate to matters that remain before the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives has yet to give an opinion on this. I therefore do not think it appropriate to give an opinion on these motions here as a First Chamber. So I am going to propose to my group that we vote against the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u221	That puts you at the end of your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u222	First of all, perhaps on that point. The legislation before us today does, however, make it fundamentally possible to implement these measures. That is why they are being tabled today and can be considered in order to prevent such unnecessarily radical measures from taking place. That's the first thing. I actually have the following question to Mrs De Bruijn from the VVD. I heard her say: mayors place certain enforcement priorities elsewhere. How does the VVD see this in terms of local autonomy to set the enforcement priority locally? I have also asked written questions about this. Can local authorities set their own enforcement priorities? I can imagine that a mayor and a city council would prefer to place the enforcement priorities in the event of nuisance and crime in affected neighbourhoods instead of using their precious enforcers to control QR codes everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u223	It needs to be shorter, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u224	When it comes to corona policy, we are currently pursuing a generic policy. When it comes to such measures, I assume that the local balancing area has some limitations there. Anyway, the Minister will have to answer that. Moreover, all the measures that are in our direction are subject to extensive consultation with the Security Council in advance. So I suppose that's where the support for enforcement is also being tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u225	One final quick question, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u226	Mayors should not communicate about this separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u227	One last short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u228	So the VVD now lays down the non-democratically controlled and controlled Security Council on a higher scale than democratically controlled and controlled local autonomy with regard to enforcement priorities. That's what I need to establish now. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u229	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u230	I would point out that the way you communicate about this kind of thing can also be different and that you can create other expectations as well. Isn't it okay if we talk about this communication style here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u231	A brief question to Mrs De Bruijn on this point. I am in favour of mayors who clearly state when they are asked for the impossible. C'est le ton qui fait la musique, but clarity above all. Let me say that. But does Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman think that scenarios outlined should already take into account the limitations that might call for supervision and enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u232	You can generally say that the measures you take must be enforceable and enforceable. This also means a weighting of priorities when you say at some point: we have a crisis here to fight a coronapandemic. Then you're gonna have to take that into consideration, too. But the impossible wasn't held up by anyone. As I said, care sets priorities, so I can also imagine that this applies to enforcement. But it's the way you communicate about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u233	It is again about communication, but I am concerned that the measures taken at the front take into account what the purpose of enforcement is, or what the possibilities of enforcement are. We will soon be discussing this, for example those 2G measures, which the OMT is already saying: the scenarios we are setting out are based on optimum control and enforcement. We all know from practice, I was talking about lessons learned, that mistakes must also be learned, and that scenarios for the country of one day are not the scenarios that will help us. Do you think that it should be clear from the front what the problems of supervision and enforcement are and that not just one scenario, with optimum control, but also another scenario, with less optimum enforcement, should be realistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u234	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u235	I understand your question, but there is also a dilemma. When we say that certain measures are needed, but that they are not actually enforceable or that they cannot be implemented, it also means that the public can say: why should I still do it? In the beginning, there has always been a call, a heavy advice and that sort of thing. But when we then say 'we are taking measures, but we cannot maintain them', we get a public response in the sense of: why should we still do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u236	Very briefly, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u237	Then we will discuss it in the next debate. But then, of course, the question is whether you should take these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u238	One aspect I do not hear from Mrs De Bruijn is communication. There is, of course, a great deal of structural error in communicating to the population. Think of the Prime Minister, who said on 14 September 'the 1.5 meters is past; we stop with that', while anyone with a little logic can sense that this wasn't so smart, because then you have to change the behavior again. People are refusing that now. You heard. Mr Van der Voort's "mixing panel" was a very good description. You must have several sliders at your disposal, but those sliders were all thrown away on September 14th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u239	So the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u240	And now we have to do it all again and the people are being addressed by the Prime Minister of your party as if we were a bunch of little children being punished while he has abolished those measures. How does Mrs De Bruijn assess the communication of the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u241	You're talking about scaling down the one-and-a-half meter measure. Consider whether you have called upon the Prime Minister or Minister De Jonge, who is sitting there, to do so: you should not do so, because that is irresponsible. I didn't hear you say that in this Chamber at the time. It was at that time an image that we all thought: okay, it can. We have just heard the reaction of the WHO, which applies to the whole of Europe. We may have been too optimistic in that respect when we were together, because together we decided to let go of that 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u242	Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u243	But I can't get an answer to my question about communication. Even Paul Rosenmöller said to me last week: I could not explain to anyone else what was decided at that press conference on Friday. So that was inimitable. It is a big deal of measures that are constantly being changed, very detailed, and the population is therefore losing out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u244	So you're actually repeating the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u245	The people are losing it, because they don't understand it anymore. So how are you going to improve communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u246	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u247	As far as I'm concerned, communication is clear. It is clear that, for example, you should stay inside if you have any complaints and you should be tested. Even such a simple message is no longer followed by many people at the moment. I can also imagine, because of course it takes a very long time. That's why you need a period, just the summer period, that people can go on for a while. It's just not...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u248	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn, for this brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u249	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u250	I'm gonna end this now, because we're really running out of time. Thank you, Mr. Otten. Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk. Mr. Otten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u251	I have a point of order, because you are very short. You were just cutting off all kinds of other people. We can't have a meaningful discussion like this, can we? So I would ask you to give a little more space for questions and answers. I know the clock is sacred with you, but this is going too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u252	Mr. Otten, I've so far allowed about 60 questions to be interrupted this morning. That's not very little. The Rules of Procedure allow me to allow for short interruptions. I have only allowed longer interruptions and speeches so far. I'm not gonna change that. Mr Van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u253	Mr. Chairman. I speak for everyone in this Chamber when I say that we had hoped that we would now be in a different situation, the situation as the cabinet suggested last summer: corona largely behind us and most of the measures lifted. But now we have a record of infection rates and a code black that is not as far away as would be desirable. Worryful, and that in a society in which the fatigue strikes, the mutual tolerance gets scratched and the respect for the government cracks. The vase is about to break. How important then is it that parliamentarians and cabinet at least set a good example, fight each other firmly on the content where necessary, but always in a way that leaves the other person as a person in its value from the premise that the other, even if you don't understand it, is also looking for the good for society and that is why you have the willingness to listen to the other. Let us feed the awareness that there is much to lose when it comes to undermining our democracy. When it comes to our democratic rule of law, the cracks that can arise in it and the constant commitment that must be made to it, I am thinking of T.S.'s rules of closeness. Eliot: "There is only the struggle to regain what was lost, found and lost, over and over again; and now in circumstances that seem unfavorable." Mr. Chairman. Back to the virus. The corona virus appears erratic and less predictable than we hoped. Here we see our human limitations and that may require modesty and bring us above all to the living God. We cannot deal with every situation with ready-made solutions. In that sense, today is not the time for big words or promises. In what way does the Minister express this in his communication? Shouldn't government policy be able to radiate this more? "A little more. Just hang in there," these aren't exactly wise words in the current uncertain circumstances. Although I know, even with T.S. Eliot, that the human species does not tolerate a great deal of reality, is totally counterproductive if we saddle society with hope that we do not live up to. How does the Minister see this? All previous considerations do not, of course, dismiss us from taking our responsibility and thinking into practical possibilities. In the meantime, we know how vaccination works. The vaccines lead to a reduction in the burden of disease and the associated health damage. We can be sure about that. It is therefore important that good and accessible information on this remains available. At the same time, we have to acknowledge that vaccination is not the much-promised ultimate solution. We are not simply piercing ourselves out of this crisis, we are also getting that insight. As I said, the effect of vaccination is there, but there is also another side. In the meantime, everyone has had the opportunity to be vaccinated. A small part of the population has chosen not to do so for a variety of reasons. These people have made their choice and no new wave of information or nearest prickbus will make a great deal of change in that. The freedom to make a choice also implies the responsibility of society to respect that choice. There's more to it than that. This debate is strictly about the third extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The fact that we can only now come to the discussion in this Chamber, when the deadline has almost expired, has already been discussed in several ways, and there has been a lot of talk about it. For the sake of clarity, I agree. A lot's happened over the past week. New measures have been taken, the cabinet would like to extend the corona admission ticket, CTB, and a 2G system has been made negotiable. That's what worries me. The credibility of the government and our democratic institutions may be compromised. Trust in government is low. Is that weird? Through an interruption we were just talking about it: if an entire parliament is expressing its opposition to any form of vaccination and that there can never be a vaccination certificate as an admission certificate, and if the government still suggests it about six months later, is it surprising that people are looking at the government wrongly? In the meantime, I have been asked by several people, which also makes me think whether we are going to be subject to vaccination. Six months ago, I said with conviction: no, it was clearly promised by the cabinet and parliament. Now I'm afraid to be so firm, and I can taste that sentiment much wider. To what extent can we rely on this government? All this makes the SGP hesitant for the direction the cabinet has now chosen. The way in which the government incorporated the CTB into the package of measures does not appeal to us. In addition, the 1.5 meter exchange for the CTB was not a good exchange either. A proven effective agent was exchanged for a drug whose effectiveness is much less clear. More serious is that this CTB only stimulates the division in society and that the proportionality of the CTB has not been proven by the government at all. This is not just an opinion of the SGP, the College of Human Rights also points out. Therefore, the SGP has serious concerns about this extension. In abundance: these reservations do not imply that the SGP denies the existence or severity of the corona crisis or that we would even suggest that no action is needed. The reality of the situation is completely different. Measures are needed which are proportionate, primarily epidemiological and not politically or socially motivated and do not reek of vaccination or exclusion. Therefore, our objections to the extension of the law lie in the interpretation given by the government to the temporary law by turning the coronapas into the backbone of the policy. I hope that the Minister will be able to deal with our concerns in his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u254	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u255	Mr President, I hope that the VWS Minister does not flee because I walked to the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u256	It could be just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u257	But the big enforcer is still there. Mr. Chairman. The Scientific Council for Government Policy, together with the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences, has issued an important opinion. They address the state's preparation for future scenarios for the development of the COVID-19 pandemic. I will come to that in a moment, because in these uncertain times it is good to listen to science in order to prevent society from being attacked and suddenly has to make far-reaching decisions without much time to think. But, Mr President, using common sense, you can also make sensible decisions. Is science necessary to foresee that letting the coming Black Friday could have fatal consequences? The FNV now makes an urgent appeal to retail chains and politics: learning from mistakes and skip Black Friday. Insane hustle and bustle in shops, selling staff caught in the mass and not with 1.5 meters but with 15 centimeters away. Anyone who sees the photos of the last Black Friday knows what I mean. The Minister asked for the draft law to be dealt with as soon as possible, which would make it possible to apply the corona ticket in non-essential shops. A draft law for application to the workplace is also coming up. How is allowing Black Friday compatible with the urgent need in the government's view to prevent contamination in shops and in the workplace? Is economic importance here for public health? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Introduction of 2G is used to relieve the burden on hospitals. How then is it possible that the cabinet was considering abandoning a ban on fireworks and that it was only, in the end, decided under great pressure to impose that ban? You can't explain that with common sense, can you? I should like to hear from the Minister on the basis of what considerations the government initially opposed the ban on fireworks. How is that consistent with a policy that hospitals want to avoid? You don't need the WRR advice to understand that, even if we were to get control of the case in the Netherlands, the threat of infection will continue to exist, as long as the virus is not extinguished in the rest of the world. We must therefore protect ourselves against the risk that travellers from very high-risk areas will bring in a new variant of our country. When the flight bans were lifted, we discussed this at length and a quarantine obligation was imposed on travellers, the government failed to control it. Our group, my colleagues, will have read it three times. The Minister has said that, contrary to what he claims, compliance with the quarantine obligation has been a sham. Of the 190,000 travellers arriving from very high-risk areas, only 5.554 were checked by the call team. That's 2.9%. Only 186 sanctions have been imposed. All experts point out that new variants may emerge, as long as the virus is free to go on in the rest of the world, where vaccination is still rare. The OMT has only agreed to lift flight bans if compliance with the quarantine obligation is guaranteed. That is not the case. The Minister does not want to answer my question as to what percentage of lack of enforcement the flight bans should be reactivated. Does the Minister really think that controlling 2.9% of 190,000 travellers by the call team provides the security that society can desire? My common sense says no, but I would like to hear the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. Enough about common sense, on to science. Five possible scenarios are discussed in the advice of the WRR and Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences. Preparing for the various scenarios increases the strategic capacity of the government, the opinion notes. Between the lines you read as a criticism that there has been a lot of snap policy, which results from the lack of thinking through the scenarios. I quote an important passage: "By considering not only the desired, but also the imaginable alternative results at each step, policy makers can be prevented from feeling constantly caught up and policies are dominated by ad hoc measures and skippers. It also means that it is important to continue to communicate well about the uncertainty surrounding the scenarios and to resist the temptation of the simple answer or the easy solution." Mr. Chairman. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees with this and whether he acknowledges that sometimes too simple answers have been given. I also ask what the cabinet will do in the coming period to focus less only on desired solutions, but also to consider possible alternative outcomes. And is it indeed more important, as the opinion states, "to clearly highlight some of the basic rules rather than stacking them up"? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The WRR opinion also highlights longer-term policy choices, such as focusing on prevention and eliminating risk factors, such as obesity. Colleague senator Van der Voort knows all about this, because he was the head of the intensive care of the UMCG in January this year in the Leeuwarder Courant: first vaccinate the older overweight men, then the ic's will drain. Mr. Chairman. In March this year, during the Dies of Wageningen University, the theme was "How can we respond better to the next pandemic?'. I would like to say straight away that I listened to Mrs Prins and also Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman: shouldn't it also be about the pandemic we're talking about right now, COVID-19? Guest speaker Henk Bekedam, who worked for the WHO for almost 24 years, gave the following analysis: "COVID-19 exposes all weaknesses in the health system. The Netherlands spends a lot of money on health care, around EUR 100 billion, but very little money on prevention and disease sources. You need to investigate it as well as the impact of climate change, which makes it easier for diseases to spread through mosquitoes." Professor Consumption and Healthy lifestyle Emely de Vet answered the question she was asked that the coronapandemic is therefore a wake-up call, by saying: "Absolutely, it shows how incredibly important it is that we start to tackle lifestyle. It is therefore essential that we no longer approach lifestyle as an individual responsibility, but address the system that maintains an unhealthy lifestyle. This could be done with measures such as a fat or sugar tax." Mr. Chairman. We have emergency legislation to respond to the pandemic. They're making good use of that. In the meantime, however, all energy is in danger of disappearing into symptom control rather than prevention. Why not have emergency legislation to deal with fattyation and sugaring of society? Is the Minister prepared to initiate emergency legislation to prevent diseases resulting from an unhealthy lifestyle? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about combating a pandemic, but what is the government doing about taking measures in the short term which, as was the theme of the University of Wageningen, are better adapted to the next pandemic? I hope the Minister's gonna tell me about the lifestyle, but there's more. The expert Bekedam pointed out the danger of zoonoses and how we in the Netherlands sometimes have insufficient regard for that danger. Bird flu is now being monitored, but, according to Bekedam, no mandatory reporting applies to swine flu. The pig often does not get sick, but on the other hand it is genetically close to the human being that I did not hear that and that some influenza viruses are easily transmitted from pig to man. Speaking of prevention, because the Netherlands is trying to be the biggest butcher in the world, millions of pigs and chickens are hacking into an industry aimed at exporting meat. Ticking time bombs that not only threaten our nature and the environment, but also pose a threat to public health. More than ten years ago, we were plagued by a serious variant of a bird flu virus that could jump on humans. A vet had already died by then. Professors Fouchier and Osterhaus wondered if the variant could mutate to a virus that would then pass from human to human. An important question, because the deadlyness of that virus was 50%. They managed to create such a mutation in a short time. I'm just saying, luckily, he didn't escape. The secret services did not want the investigation to be published, as terrorists could use it. The professors' reaction was that nature itself is the largest bioterrorist. If the virus was going around, it was only a matter of time before that mutation was there. Millions of chickens in the Netherlands are the reservoir for such pandemic hazards. Let's leave it that way? The Minister has announced a pandemic preparedness agenda. How ready are we, anyway? Why isn't the agenda here yet? Why have no measures been taken to close down poultry farming in areas where there are many waterbirds, one of the opinions in the report by Bekedam, Zoonosen, which was issued as a matter of urgency in July? I'd like a response from the Minister. At the Dies of Wageningen University, Wim van der Poel, leader of a major investigation, warned about COOVID-19, I quote: "The way we all live together is beneficial to a virus like this. The world's population is growing, so humans and animals are living closer and closer together. 70% of all emerging viruses that take hold of humans are zoonoses. Global warming provides a wider range of insects and therefore a greater risk of infection of viruses transmitted by insects, such as zika by mosquitoes, but also the West Nile virus, which was first detected in the Netherlands last year." To the question: that sounds like we have to get ready for many more pandemics, his answer was: the honest answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u258	I am listening with great interest to what Mr Nicolaï says. I saw that he had signed up for twenty minutes, so I thought: that will be a fundamental argument, and it is. I have a practical question. What he is suggesting is also what you always see in a lot of reactions to the government's actions, namely that something else has to be done before you want to take responsibility for yourself. There are a lot of points that Mr Nicolaï points out that I agree with. But now I see that the Group of the Party of Animals in the House of Representatives did not support the extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u259	I come to that at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u260	Ah, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u261	I am not going to avoid such a question, I say to Mr Backer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u262	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u263	So the question was: should we be prepared for more pandemics? This expert's answer was: the honest answer is yes. So being ready is the motto. Emergency legislation in the form of early legislation is needed in order to have the tools to intervene on pandemics that the experts believe are waiting for us. Does the Minister agree with us? When can society expect anything in this respect? I'd like a response. In addition to Mrs Prins and Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman, I would like to see the COOVID-19 situation involved, because we have not yet got rid of it. Today we are talking about emergency legislation to deal with the pandemic called wake-up call, COVID-19. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Backer's question. In crisis situations, the rule of law must prove its strength. We started, so we all know, with emergency regulations. But soon the legal scholars, as well as the Council of State, came to the conclusion that a more legally responsible regime was required. That brought us the temporary law on the extension we are judging today. However, as was the case with the emergency regulations, this law also applies: the constant extension of an emergency law instead of replacing it with an ordinary law is contrary to the constitutional requirements. I also saw some pressing questions about that at the VVD. That is all the more true, I say right away, when the First Chamber does not have a formal position in that temporary law in order to prevent the violation of fundamental rights through ministerial regulations. Maybe for a while, but not for a long time. Others have also pointed out that the Minister already speaks of a fourth and a fifth extension. Our group considers this unacceptable from the point of view of the rule of law. There was plenty of time to come up with an adaptation of the Wpg and create a system in which the First Chamber can fully realize its co-legislative task. A First Chamber that takes itself seriously has no choice. In a rule of law, this does not always fit for temporary renewal, certainly not a law in which half of the States-General is amputated. I look forward to the Minister's answer to the questions. It will be clear to you that our group will vote against the extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u264	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I mentioned my contribution: a reflection on Twm in relation to covid and the state of the rule of law. I have divided my contribution into a few parts, starting with the reactions of citizens. In the past few weeks I have been given as a Member of Parliament, I estimate that all colleagues who have also received more than 1,000 e-mails. It could have been 2,000; I didn't add them all up. Those were e-mails from residents throughout the Netherlands. Essentially, these e-mails warn the MPs about a number of things. Firstly, the e-mails question the effectiveness and side effects of the vaccines as the ultimate pesticide against covid. Secondly, the healthcare sector has been eroded by the government in recent years, according to the e-mails, which are now not sufficiently capable of combating the pandemic. Thirdly, measures to combat covid control, according to the e-mails, personal freedoms to the extent that our democratic rule of law is broken down. A fourth element is the warning that democracy must be restored. For example, the general call in these e-mails is to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Information is no longer trusted, is often no longer reliable and many distrust the government when it comes to providing information. How can we restore that confidence? Feelings are facts. How seriously should MPs take the feelings expressed in these e-mails? These e-mails describe the disruption of the legal feelings of many people. Are these feelings justified? Is our democracy in danger? Is there a tunnel vision in Parliament, which does not recognise these dangers that many citizens are warning about? Or are the feelings in these e-mails fed by fake news coming from groups or parties that wrongly stir up these feelings and/or perhaps themselves caused the mail bombing to undermine democracy? Mr. Chairman. This leads to a number of questions from the OSF group to ministers and the cabinet, including the Prime Minister. Are there recognised Dutch state courts or highly valued state lawyers who endorse these warnings? Does the independent judiciary, the strongest feature of a functioning democracy, have any doubts about the measures taken by the government, or was the government even condemned? Are there any other serious warnings from authoritative bodies that endorse the feelings expressed in the e-mails? Is the Netherlands in danger, as suggested in the e-mails? That is the question that we as First Members of Parliament should ask today as guardian of our rule of law and democracy in response to these e-mails. I'm not gonna leave it there. You could say, "I'm not doing anything with it." I feel that we are living in a rule of law, and with every signal we can get, we need to do something. The childcare allowance has been subject to tunnel vision for many years, even up to the Council of State. Before further restrictions of freedom are taken, the government must answer the questions that have been formulated. The request is therefore that an independent, possibly international, investigation by an authoritative body should respond to these questions within a few weeks. Is the Netherlands in danger? Is democracy in danger? The second part of my contribution is about the effects of the measures or: how do we support them? After 20 months of pandemics, source and contact research should provide a far-reaching insight into the effectiveness of many individual measures to combat covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u266	I am a little delayed, because I was just thinking about Mr Raven's speech about the rule of law and democracy that would be threatened by fake news. I was just wondering what role Mr. Raven sees for the government in that situation. How should the government act on this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u267	I have mentioned in several contributions in the past the danger of fake news and the fact that we can no longer trust information as a very important point of attention, also in relation to trust in the rule of law. In any case, your proposal to carry out the necessary research and not just to investigate it, but to actually seek solutions is a matter for our hearts. As far as we are concerned, the fact that we are not doing anything about it and just making it bumpy is being undermined by misinformation. It's more than fake news on some points. It is propaganda and propaganda we know where it has led in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u268	I notice that information, and as a counterpart to it, is always the subject of today's debate. I would like to check that Mr. Raven agrees with what is in the letter that Minister Ollongren wrote about this last year and in which she provides a framework for how the government should deal with it. This should also be a rebuttal in the case of disinformation. Is that a policy he supports and would like to follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u269	I can imagine that there is even a body where a sort of stamp is placed on news, which can be made known very quickly 'this is reliable', 'this is less reliable' and 'this is not reliable information'. I could imagine you having an independent body form an opinion on that. How's that supposed to work? That is very difficult, but we need to zoom in on how to find an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u270	Finally, Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u271	Finally. It is an interesting theme, because of course there is also a danger in it. It is true that disinformation is information that is purposely intended to stir up and create chaos. At the same time, of course, there is freedom of expression. Of course, people can find something else. So I think it is relevant that we put the scientific argument first and continue to rely on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u272	I started with the fact that people don't trust it anymore and they don't know if they can trust information. That ambiguity must be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u273	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u274	I said that I wanted to talk about the effectiveness of the measures and how we can maintain the support for them. After 20 months, we should have a far-reaching understanding of the effectiveness of individual measures to combat covid using the source and contact research. However, it seems to the OSF Group that the cabinet cannot measure these results in advance or in advance. (Parliament agreed to the request for urgent procedure) Sending on outcome is, as far as we are concerned, the norm. That should also be the norm and not control measures based on gut feelings. Measuring is knowing that it has been mentioned this morning too, but guessing is missing. And then the measures are shot with hail. For example, since the reintroduction two weeks ago of the oral cap, the infections have multiplied. This was the case in December last year after the political decision to introduce the masks. Is that a wise decision? What scientific studies can justify this reintroduction? A multiplication since the re-entry of the mouth caps without scientific evidence. That's close to reproach as far as we're concerned. Mr. Chairman. How many fewer infections are expected as a result of the reintroduction of the one-and-a-half meter measure? This widely appreciated understandable measure was simply abolished in September. Why is that? Nobody asked for it. However, that measure was abolished. Who is this "no one" anyway? What does closing saunas actually get you at 6:00 in the evening? How much less have been infected by it? How many fewer infections does the closure of chiropractors result, while physiotherapists are allowed to remain fully open? All those who ask for a justification of the individual measures in order to maintain their capacity. Why did the government not decide in September to impose measures on the schools? The contagion with corona among children was very high at that time, early September. Infections among this group increased to more than 20% of all infections at that time. However, no measures were introduced for schools. Perhaps for political reasons, not for objective reasons. What scientific basis was not acted on here? Children and grandchildren are infecting their parents and grandparents, so the pandemic is now unstoppable. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is missionary, but missionary in the field of corona in order to fight the pandemic with all force. We call on the cabinet to take corona measures on the basis of a real, measurable outcome and not on the basis of political compromises to save the cabbage and the goat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u275	I have a quick question. Mr. Raven is talking about measures in schools. What kind of measures does he think of himself? Do the children have to wear masks, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u276	I don't think I'm hired for that, but the moment you get the warning that 20% of the infected are young people, that could be a cause or reason. have to be to do something with that. But what measures are effective? That is not my concern. That's more to RIVM and in the next instance to the cabinet. But I find it strange that no measures are being taken at such an essential point. Whether you should close the schools, let the children wear masks or introduce any other rule, I think the experts are for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u277	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u278	Is Mr Raven aware of the considerations of keeping schools open precisely because the learning disadvantages that children face are disproportionate to the danger that the virus means to themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u279	Short answer, Mr. Raven, and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u280	There is still a great deal between closing down schools and taking measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u281	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u282	Mr. Chairman. Don't throw the kid away with the bathwater, is the next title in my contribution. "Testing, testing, testing" has so far been the motto of the cabinet. Why and on what scientific grounds is a 2G discussion now being held by the Cabinet, without testing for access? Yesterday, Monday, the Prime Minister called for people to be tested in particular. This is unclear, inconsistent, unstable and ambiguous. Don't make a big deal out of it. Testing for access has proven its worth and must remain. Football matches, Formula 1, a Tour de France with audience were all possible because of this. Why are we throwing the kid away with the bathwater? Tests should rather be extended, as in other countries, and should become part of the standard conditions in order to participate in society, including for vaccinees. It should be a civil duty, civil discipline, to first apply the discipline before you leave home, to see if you are infected, yes or no, after brushing your teeth by means of an antigen or quick test. Not through the unnecessarily rigged Christmas tree of the PCR test, which costs €79.95, but through a cheap antigen test you can quickly see whether or not you have the virus and whether or not you can safely enter society. Mr. Chairman. So don't throw away 3G. Don't just throw it overboard. 2V is the way out of the crisis: vaccinate and ventilate. That's what I said in May. Last year, in a scientific report, it emerged that these are the two elements that offer the opportunity to actually do something structuralally. A scientific opinion was issued last year: the infection inside is strongly reduced with sufficient ventilation. But our Prime Minister's answer came down to "open the windows." What a misconception of the problem!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u283	Mr. Raven, would you wrap up, please? Your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u284	Do we just put our seniors in the cold at -10 degrees? That is not the way we should go with the millions of seniors living in nursing homes and nursing homes. Provide ventilation, provide structural, long-term solutions and offer them to the Chamber, without seeking a division of society and without inciting contradictions in society, but with viable and structural strengthening measures for improvements in the indoor climate, such as ventilation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u285	Thank you, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-3.u286	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
