ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. I would ask Members to take their seats and ask the press to leave the Chamber again. Thank you. The next item is Mrs Hammer's final report on her work, and I would like to welcome Mrs Hammer to our plenary session. Before we proceed to the debate, I would like to draw your attention to the final objective of this debate: to appoint the new informant to accompany the next stage of the cabinet formation. There are four minutes' speaking time. First, the Chamber will speak in the first term, and then I will give the floor to Mrs Hammer. She is going to answer the factual questions raised and provide information in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Of course, I will allow Members to have the debate with each other. However, I would ask you to keep the interruptions short and concise and I would like to agree with Members to keep six questions or comments. I now give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are debating today the report of the informant sent to the Chamber yesterday. It contains a clear opinion on how to proceed with the formation. First of all, I would like to thank the informant very much for all her work and for the very pleasant discussions we have had and also for the report she has produced. In view of the current situation and the positions taken by all parties, given the blockades that exist, I think that this proposal for a process is a good proposal. The informant notes that there are no blockades in the other parties with which they have spoken. The two largest parties are now taking the lead in this process and are going to write together a document on the main lines with the aim of joining other parties, so that talks can start for a majority coalition. I also look forward to further developing this process with this informant. I will be tabling a motion on behalf of Mrs Kaag as soon as it is complete. We will distribute that motion, a motion that outlines the core of the opinion of the informant on the next step of the process and hopefully formally confirms it by a majority vote of this House of Representatives. Mr President, that is what I wanted to bring in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr Wilders of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	Not a word about the last 100 days. It's been almost 100 days since we started voting. It's been 60, 70 days since you've been beating in backrooms, chatting, and I know what you've been doing. The result is a very big zero when it comes to coalition formation. Nothing has been achieved. You and all those who have sat at Mrs Hammer's table have not taken any further steps towards coalition formation. Nothing at all! In fact, yesterday it was announced that negotiations will only begin in mid-August, after you start writing a test with Mrs Kaag: almost six months after the elections. Mr. Rutte, that's too embarrassing for words, isn't it? I have one question for you: why do you think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	This is due to an extremely complex outcome of the elections. It also reflects in the conversations that are being held. As a result, it is more complicated than we normally see to come to the question of which parties, which, added up, are likely not to be sent away at the first meeting with the Chamber, can be brought together to form the substance of a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's not how it happened. It is because the leader of the largest party, the VVD, Mr Rutte, after lies, deception, motions of mistrust and motions of censure, made it one and the other just didn't hit wing lamb. It's because you have the political weight of almost nothing. It's because your authority is gone, you don't have a moral compass anymore, people take you for granted and you have to go after left-wing parties or D66. That's why it takes so long. You have already ruled out my party, the PVV, before the elections. That means you're at the mercy of Mrs Kaag. You may hope for the Christian Union, but it could just become GroenLinks. The voter doesn't want that, so you're just working out. You are waiting and thinking: if it lasts long enough, Mr Segers might want to sit down at the table. That's because your position is weakened, Mr. Rutte. Do you share that with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Wilders' party is in our way of viewing just as left-wing as the SP, except for one point. That, in our view, is the reprehensible position on Islam. That is why, in essence, we cannot work with the PVV. Furthermore, I must learn to live with Mr Wilders' analysis of my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	Indeed, you must learn to live with the truth. That's right, Mr. Rutte. By excluding us as PVV, you are at the mercy of the left. How do you intend to implement the passages from your election programme when it comes to immigration? How will you ensure that fewer immigrants enter the Netherlands? How are you going to make sure that the VVD-chooser, that entrepreneur or that citizen, doesn't have to pay blue to that crazy climate obsession of Mrs Kaag or of parties on the left? How are you going to ensure that there is law and order in the Netherlands and that there will be stricter penalties? All the points in your election programme that you could have realized with parties on the right, which you did not do. You've set aside 1 million voters and now you're at the mercy of the left. You have become Mrs Kaag's doll! You're not gonna realize what you promised your voter. You come with Mrs Kaag and we may even get a Deputy Prime Minister from GroenLinks. Isn't that what's going on? That's just not fair to your own voter, is it? That's why it's taking so long, isn't it? Isn't that why you're damning the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	Is it because Rutte no longer has the power to form a coalition? That is what Mr Wilders is analysing. I don't agree, but I have to learn to live with that analysis. Or is it because the VVD doesn't want to work with the PVV? On that second point, I should like to go into more detail. Of course, I've tried that once. We tried once in 2010 to see if you could reach substantive agreements with the PVV. That was extremely difficult. Apart from the fact that he ran the hare out of the Catshuis as Zoef when it came to it and collapsed the Netherlands in the middle of a crisis in an election campaign, it was also extremely difficult in 2010 to come to business with the PVV. If I had to come to business with Geert Wilders, I honestly think that there is still a VVD heart at the core when it comes to broad financial and economic policy. But he leads a party that is a copy of the SP in the broad financial-social-economic field. We're not ruling out the SP. Why do we exclude the PVV? One. Because of not taking responsibility. Two. Because of our objectionable view of Islam. We can't work with that. So Mr Wilders has put himself out of business. If he hadn't, we'd have had a copy of the SP at the table. What do you mean, "right"? The PVV is just a left-wing party. Again, we do not exclude the SP. They're shutting us out. We do exclude the PVV because of the Islam position. That is what Mr Wilders is doing. This means that the VVD must eventually seek cooperation in order to reach a majority, and not with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	At GroenLinks is a senior member who has been associated and Vice-President of a party or youth movement associated with the Muslim Brotherhood. They're terrorists. I am not saying that the colleague is a terrorist, but that she is a Muslim extremist who has been a member and vice-president of a club associated with the Muslim Brotherhood. And you'll join me at the table. You come to me and say about a democratic, nonviolent position that is shared by many Dutch people: I cannot live with that. For GroenLinks there is a Muslim extremist in the Dutch Parliamentary Group who has been associated with the Muslim Brotherhood. And then you say, "Everything's fine." You can't be serious. That's total bullshit, isn't it, Mr. Rutte? I'll stick with that. You're in trouble. You are now at the mercy of Mrs Kaag and those of left-wing parties, because you have excluded parties like the PVV. The people at home must know that you are abandoning them when it comes to immigration restrictions, asylum restrictions and law and order. It will only become more unsafe for them and they will get more immigrants. That's what the VVD's gonna do. You could have prevented that, but you don't. With what you're about to do, you're at the mercy of D66. We'll see if you come up with your plans right away. Maybe GroenLinks will join us. You're cheating on the VVD picker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	I would just like to make one comment about Mrs Kauthar Bouchallichh van GroenLinks. She's an elected representative. I think it's important to have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Wilders is saying outside the microphone that he does not give a damn that she is an elected representative. Yes, she is. It is unacceptable that this kind of language should be spoken about a fellow MEP. The accusations that are being made here are unacceptable to me from everyone in this Chamber, but certainly from the leader of a party in which someone is in the group who is accused of being attached to staff, when he does nothing about it: he does not investigate, he does nothing about it. Mr. Wilders, first get things in order in your own party before you take other colleagues here in the Chamber the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen of the SP for her interruption. First of all, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	I'm sorry. Maybe just a quick reaction. Mr Wilders leads a left-wing party. Mr Wilders' party is just as left-wing as the Socialist Party. That's one. The programs are one-on-one to put one-on-one together. The problem we have is not even that it is such a very left-wing programme. You can still try to figure that out in the negotiations. That's why we don't rule out SP. The problem is that Mr Wilders has made a statement about fewer Moroccans. The VVD has said that if it is not taken back, we will no longer be able to work with Mr Wilders. I have often challenged Mr Wilders to take back that statement. As long as he does not, it is not possible for the VVD to cooperate with Mr Wilders. If he did, it would still be complicated. Then we still have a very left-wing party to deal with. Let the Netherlands and everyone who is watching do not let themselves be fooled and think that the PVV is a right-wing party. That's not the PVV. The PVV is a left-wing party and not a right-wing party. And again, because of the ruling on the Moroccans, it is not possible for the VVD to work with that party. That's what's at the core here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, the SP. I expected a lot from this formation debate, but not one-two-three that it would be about a hundred times over the SP in the first ten minutes. It's been noted. I think we have had the traditional puppet charade in The Hague at the beginning of the debate. I would also like to say to Mr VVD and Mr ex-VVD: I believe that the election campaign is over. I think we are here because there is a lot going on in the Netherlands. It's three months after the election. You know, the elections in which each party said: there must be a cabinet quickly; that is important. We now have a report with an opinion from Mrs. Hamer. That is what my question to Mr Rutte is about. He said: there is a report with a clear opinion. I read it. It is this bundle of more than 100 pages. I thought it was a lot, but I can't really say it was obvious. What exactly did Mr Rutte find so clear about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	What I think is clear in the document is that Mrs Hamer outlines, on the basis of how the political situation has developed, that it seems to her to be sensible, and I share that analysis and also agree with that opinion, that we should indeed ask the two main parties to take the lead in writing a document on the main points and all the other things that need to be done afterwards. I agree with that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	I am asking the question, of course, because we had to look for six weeks at one political leader after another who came out of the Stadhouderskamer and yet really said that there was 'along the lines of content'. I can hardly hear that expression anymore. After six weeks of "along the lines of content," you expect a report with content. But it doesn't say anything, except that Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag are actually going to write something together now and that five months after the elections there will be real negotiations. Mr Rutte has said here in the Chamber a number of times that his cabinet is decommissioned. Each time he said: I have three things on the agenda, namely corona and the corona crisis management, the surcharges and the formation. Corona we can see. Fortunately, the vaccinations are starting and the infection rates are going well. But take the surcharges. Yesterday was in the news that the cabinet finally admits: we can't do it. The victims of the supplemental affair are still in the shit, in the shit. And in the formation, we're on our way for three months and there's this. How does Mr Rutte think he is doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	The question before us today is how we manage the formation with each other. I believe that Mrs Hammer has put some sensible things on paper in terms of content. Which larger themes are at stake in a formation. What matters now need to be addressed in the further recovery policy of the Netherlands. Which may be further priority issues. In her personal capacity, she also gave a number of thoughts to the Chamber and to forming parties regarding the administrative culture. I think that's a good product. At the core there is an important element missing, but there is nothing it can do about it, namely the question of which parties, together with certain probabilities, can count on them not to be dismissed at a first meeting with the Lower House if they reach substantive agreements. That is not possible at the moment and Mrs Hammer says: given that fact and given everything I have heard and seen, I think it would be wise for D66 and VVD to take the lead in making such a document on the main lines. We will for the next few weeks. We are trying to do that and then take the other steps that she agrees with in her opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. Mr Azarkan van DENK. Would Mrs. Marijnissen care to think for a moment? Or do you still want...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	She chews on my answer, I see. But she's happy anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	Hey, hey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	Rutte as we know him: full of bravado, first speaker, filing a motion. Last time it was Mrs Kaag who did so on behalf of Mr Rutte, but the roles have already been reversed. Business as usual. Looking forward. At the moment, the Prime Minister states that there is a blockade for the formation of what he then calls "a group of parties that can form a stable government with certainty.' Now the solution proposed by Mrs Hammer, whom he embraces, is to explore even more content. I have the impression that in the last three months, the last 70 days, we have been working on the content. It was actually about trust, but we were working on the content. If the blockade is not on the substance, what will Mr Rutte write, along with Mrs Kaag, so that the parties that now have a blockade, say: I will go along with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	In politics, different elements always come together. Yeah, content matters. In addition, of course, we will also discuss what is ultimately the best composition of a coalition for stability and continuity. In a formation process the factor time is also of great importance. I think that the informant is making a sensible proposal by saying that, given what has happened so far, it is not possible at present to give an opinion on which parties would have sufficient support in this Chamber if they could agree. She says: given that situation and with everything I have heard, it seems to me now the most sensible step that D66 and VVD write such a document on the main lines. And I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u26	Does this mean that Mr Rutte, on behalf of the VVD, also intends to lift a number of blockades? Suppose he sees for himself what he wrote down together with Mrs Kaag and suddenly comes to the discovery: there is something beautiful, so perhaps I can embrace a number of parties that I now rule out. Does that mean that there will be a different attitude from the VVD towards the parties that he himself excludes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u27	The VVD excludes two parties. That's Forum and PVV. In addition, we realise that the result of the election is necessary to reach out through the political centre to another party operating in the middle or left of the middle. But we do not want more parties in the middle or left of the middle than is necessary for the majority. That is why Mrs Hammer wrote about the position of the VVD. That reflects exactly how we feel about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u28	That's a complicated answer. I think it says in the document that the VVD does not want to cooperate with GroenLinks and the PvdA at the same time. My question to the Prime Minister is: why? And are you prepared to revise that on August 15th?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u29	No, I'm not. We are doing this and we have this view because the VVD believes that it is necessary for the creation of a political majority to reach out to that middle and through the political centre, because otherwise there is no majority cabinet. But we do not want a cabinet of more parties than is necessary for that majority. We don't think that's stable. That is the paradox of the decline in stability by more parties. Secondly, I would like to mention the following, which I am now able to add to our view as we have expressed earlier and which is in line with the discussion we have had here on the new administrative culture and the necessary debate, especially in the political centre. If there is a coalition in which the whole broad political centre finds itself, it is not good for the debate in the middle. That needs to be fed right there, I think, and not between the middle and the flanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Azarkan? No. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u31	Of course, I have been a member of the VVD for 38 years, as well as my colleague Wilders, of course. Back then, you conquered the hearts of Dutch people with the core values of freedom and responsibility. Of course, we now benefit from freedom a little less in corona time, but responsibility is the second core value. I've heard you talk about that a lot. How do you see that responsibility in this whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u32	I see this in my view now that it is necessary for me and Mrs Hammer to take the lead in that next step. For example, we take our responsibility to see if we can achieve such a document together, in order to outline the following process steps as set out in the opinion of the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u33	I think that responsibility goes a little further. You have the responsibility for a lot of people who voted. You just said that you are excluding the PVV and Forum for Democracy. But in fact you also exclude JA21, the SGP, my own party and BBB. In the end, that's 32 seats. So if you add all the right seats together, you have 81 seats. I wonder a little bit: how do you see this responsibility towards the 81 right-wing seats, with which the Dutch have chosen a large majority for a right-wing cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u34	We have made it clear in the campaign that the VVD will not cooperate with Forum and PVV for reasons of great importance to us. I do not agree with Mr Haga's analysis. Mr Van Haga, I mean. I do not agree with the analysis that the PVV would be a right-wing party. It's a left-wing party. So that's just not right. I experienced that in 2010 when I wrote a coalition agreement. It was almost impossible to get reforms into that. With the greatest effort we could finally try to do something at the AOW age in 2012, but even that was very difficult. When Mr Wilders had really thought about that, he ran away from the Catshuis. So with that party, you can't actually conduct a proper center-right economic policy. It's just not a right-wing party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u35	Perhaps we should let go of that terminology from the left and right, because the VVD has of course shifted to the left. Then let's use the VVD as a benchmark. All the parties sitting on the right, all the parties I mentioned, have 81 seats with the VVD, the leftmost party of the set. So it seems to me that the Dutchman has spoken and that this has to be done right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u36	Once again, I do not agree with Mr Van Haga's analysis that they would be 81 seats. It is: 81 seats minus 17 of the PVV, because that is not a right-wing party. That's one. Two. The VVD is a centre-right party, a liberal party to the right of the centre, just like the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a centre-right country. The VVD is a centre-right party. This means: a party that stands for freedom, for liberal values in this society, for human rights, but also a party that stands for entrepreneurship, for tight financial and socio-economic policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u37	Finally. This exclusion will, of course, give you a very different result, and you already know that. So if you are going to negotiate, this exclusion of all these seats and implicitly of all those other right-wing seats will give you a result on the left and you are heading for it. I do not think that this is a responsibility for the electorate's will, but it is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u38	Two elements in my answer. Firstly, I disagree with Van Haga that there would be 81 right-wing seats in the Netherlands. It's at least 17 less. We could go on talking about how right-wing Forum really is when it comes to economic policy. But there are at least 17 less, because you have to subtract the PVV from it. I saw that in 2010 when drafting the coalition agreement. I remember the frustration at Maxime Verhagen in the formation negotiations when it was about the very necessary reforms of the WW, of social security. In 2012, necessary steps had to be taken to cope with the growing economic crisis. Eventually, the Netherlands was thrown into an election campaign by the PVV, the left-wing PVV. That's one. Two. The VVD, a centre-right, liberal party, just as the Netherlands is a centre-right, liberal country, is keen to seek cooperation with the CDA, because we know that we can agree with the CDA on that broad financial and socio-economic policy. This also applies to D66, because D66 never leaves responsibility for necessary reforms. In addition, there are, of course, differences of opinion on many subjects. It is not enough for a majority, so the VVD realizes that, in order to achieve a stable majority coalition, the middle to a party on the left must be stretched hand, but not more than necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u40	Of course, the question of who can be with and the question of whether to form a cabinet can count on the support of the Chamber, so that it can actually get to grips with the decisions taken in the coalition agreement, once again supported by the Chamber, is important. But we cannot answer those questions, and we cannot play that game before we have any clarity or those who stand up to carry government responsibility again or for the first time, know what is expected of them and whether they also respect it. The discussions here have, of course, dealt extensively with the rule of law. The VVD and the CDA have duly supported the motion submitted by the Party for Animals. That motion stated that respect for the rule of law is a non-negotiable condition for a new cabinet. Then it is about the implementation of the Climate Agreement. Then it is about respecting the high law; I refer to the nitrogen crisis. Then it's about doing citizens justice; then I'm referring to the supplementing affair. The problem is that the VVD and the CDA have properly supported that motion, but that everything we see points the other way. So the question is whether the VVD in a new cabinet will meet that minimum requirement that the government of our country respects the rule of law and that the people of our country may have confidence in that government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u41	The VVD is in the tradition of Thorbecke, the revolution of 1848. That's the basic tone of our party. That has to do with the relationship between state and citizen. Not for nothing do liberals prefer to talk about "the State" than about "the government" because we do not think anyone is placed above us. As liberals, we prefer to talk about "the state." At the heart of this is the rule of law. The core of the rule of law is that people in the country are protected from the omnipotence of the government. That is the guideline, the anchor, of liberal parties in Europe and certainly of the VVD. We fully agree with what you have just said about the issues that you mentioned that need to be addressed in the area of nitrogen and climate change in the shorter and longer term, as well as the issues of the government, the State, as a human face that focuses on society and correcting the shame of the childcare allowance affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u42	That would be good news, and I would like to believe Mr Rutte, but the situation is that his party and also the CDA have forsaken and indeed more parties there over the past four, eight, twelve years. Otherwise, we wouldn't have had a judge's ruling on the climate and nitrogen. Then we wouldn't have had this embarrassing state of the supplementing affair either. I read that the informant also advised that there should be some more joy in the information process. I am very much in favour of that, but I am afraid I have some bad news, because parties like the VVD and the CDA will have to solve the problems caused by pressing their moustache and by abandoning climate, nitrogen and doing justice to citizens independently. Whether a party participates that has a high climate in its programme or not, the VVD will have to get going and the CDA will have to get going. In fact, everyone will have to get to work, because this is about the rule of law. The problem is that we haven't seen anything about it yet; just countersputing, conflicting, no sense in parties that want to talk about the climate. So how are we supposed to judge that the VVD here says that the rule of law is the foundation of that party? That's right; that was once the case for the VVD, but over the past twenty years it's been just imagery and party interests that have prevailed. What change will we see if the VVD wants to form a new government that, as Mr Rutte says, does justice to the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u43	Given the time, I'll split my answer into two parts. I shall be very brief about the nonsense of the Group Chairman's comments on my party. They're bullshit, bullshit, bullshit. I'm not going to fight them here either; we don't have the time for that, but she's doing analyses on the VVD that are from a to z false. I'll leave them with her. Then there's the part we agree on. Under my leadership, the Cabinet worked on the Climate Act and the Climate Agreement, which has broad support in the Chamber, including those of GroenLinks and the Labour Party, to take necessary steps towards reducing CO emissions, in such a way that it is feasible and affordable for people in the country. And I'm proud of that, too. We will have to make additional efforts to this end, both in the short term and in the longer term. I see enormous opportunities in this, not only because it addresses the climate problem and makes this country cleaner, but also because I believe that in ten years' time out of 10 to 11 million jobs in the Netherlands, there will be a few million jobs in these sectors of the energy transition, the climate approach, the climate transition. That's what we're gonna do to each other. So at that point, I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u44	Finally. We know this game, of course. It's called "mostribble." You know you're under pressure. You've got to move. I'm gonna call the judge one more time. And then you pretend to make a move, but in practice you're still just stinking. And we can't afford that anymore. The VVD did not come up with good climate policy on its own. The VVD has put it on a climate agreement about which the farmers' organisation LTO says: we have won; what we considered important is in it. Now there's another threat to lawsuits. The conclusion must therefore be that the party that is going to write a negotiating document does not respect the rule of law by itself, but rather acts as a party that wants to remain in charge of the country in particular without responding to the challenges facing the Netherlands. And that is very disappointing for a party like the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you. I didn't hear a question, more statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u46	Well, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mrs Hammer's happiness is still a little bit away from Mrs Ouwehand, especially because of her endless series of claims from the absurd. The VVD is the party of Leendert Ginjaar, is the party of Pieter Winsemius, is the party of Ed Nijpels. It is the party that has taken up the climate issue and has come up with a Climate Law and a Climate Agreement with this cabinet. In the coming years, we will have to take a very big step. There are enormous opportunities, both to solve climate problems and to solve the Netherlands now, coming from the corona crisis and perhaps the best performing economy of the Western world... Perhaps we will be the best performing economy in the Western world, thanks to the recovery packages made by Eric Wiebes, Wopke Hoekstra and Wouter Koolmees, who will also prove to be leading the world in the field of climate and energy transition in the slightly longer term. I am very motivated to do so, with the joy that Mrs Hammer is asking of me. And I challenge Mrs Ouwehand to show them a little bit today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u47	Yes, of course I forgot to pick up that challenge, so I like to contribute to the cheerful atmosphere that is needed. And then I can say that I am laughing at Mr Rutte's last answer, but also, in fact, Mr Rutte's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you. Mr. Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u49	Yes. It's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u50	Look. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kaag of D66 for her first term. I would like to make a check on the House, because, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we must be allowed to table a motion in the first time. Is there any objection to that, I ask? There's no objection. Then I'll give you an opportunity to read out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u51	But this is scratched in, and then they're gonna look, Sophie, what's underneath that scratch. But you don't mind? Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of its substantive mandate, informer Hammer described contours of the policy to be pursued in its final report, which could be used as building blocks for the continuation of the formation;]] [[Whereas the report also contains elements for the recovery policy that the present outgoing cabinet may be able to make use of;]] [[noting that the informant has a clear opinion on the follow-up to the formation;]] [[Under Rule 11 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, Mrs drs. M.I. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for the work he has done on this subject.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte and Mr Kaag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u52	Madam President. First of all, I would like to express my thanks on behalf of D66 for the great commitment, substantive contribution and, of course, the final product that Mrs Hamer delivered in this round. I think we are all grateful to her. Mr. Chairman. D66's ambition in the formation of a new cabinet is unchanged: we want a broad, stable and as progressive a cabinet as possible. That is and will continue to be our commitment, because this is in line with the mandate given to us by the electorate. This also reflects today's challenges, which call for the sense of urgency of progressive politics: the climate crisis, shortages in education and the growing and lasting inequality in society. I'm standing here with a double feeling, too. On the one hand, I see in the report of informant Hamer many good, substantive directions: a promising, inclusive society, a sustainable economy, digitisation and innovation, health, international cooperation. This creates a good basis for the policy of a subsequent cabinet. Once again, I thank the informant for this valuable work. At the same time, the informant has not been able to carry out its mission in full. Despite the call for political blockades to be dropped in the national interest, they are still there, on all kinds of majority variants. There is currently no support for a stable and broad five-party variant, with parties that often have good local and regional cooperation or have done so in the past. A variant to start full negotiations with six parties has not yet proved politically possible. You understand that I would have preferred this to be different. I share the appreciation of the informant that there are no substantive reasons for this. Mr. Chairman. The informant now advises to start with two parties. I think that is a good and necessary step. This is in line with the responsibility of a 24-seat party in an attempt to break the deadlock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u53	Why don't you finish your story first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u54	The discussions in the coming weeks should lead to a substantive document in which these two parties propose solutions to the problems analysed by the informant, with the aim of starting negotiations on a majority coalition later. D66 continues to focus on a cabinet that brings the Netherlands to climate change and puts the further improvement of education at the centre. As far as we are concerned, this requires a progressive agreement and as stable, broad-based and progressive a cabinet as possible. Mr. President, I'm almost there. People expect politicians and parties to do justice to their voices. That's also been appointed. That's what we want to do. We want to get to work. We want to bridge differences. Now is the time to seize opportunities that belong to a sustainable economy and to a genuinely equal and inclusive society. We must work on this quickly, despite the time that has passed, as with our rule of law, the fight against discrimination and racism and our position in Europe. I hope for support in this Chamber for the proposal now before us. It is important that we take steps on the content to achieve a political breakthrough. We're doing this for the country and for no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u56	Beautiful words; I like to join them. However, in order to assess whether we can support the motion tabled by Mr Rutte on behalf of Mrs Kaag, it is also important to know which direction is to be taken. Mrs Kaag indicated that a number of problems have been identified. They need to be further developed. It needs to be further written on so that other parties can lift and connect blockades. What problems do Mrs Kaag have with Rutte? What problems is it going to work out so that this leads to a stable cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u57	I think there are two questions in Mr Azarkan's question, if I understand correctly. We are, of course, using the report, Mrs Hammer's report before us, with the seven main themes. Furthermore, we are thinking about how we can think and work from problem analysis to solution, but it is not formation. This is not a negotiation of measures. It outlines a framework. It is a start, a document to be used at a possible formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u58	Still half an answer, and by the way only one question. Mrs Kaag said that the blockades are actually with other parties. I think they're part of Mrs Kaag's party, too. They're based on... and I don't know. They're based on something. Those themes have been discussed. Is Mrs Kaag saying that there are also blockades from other parties in the development of these issues? They therefore need to be developed, because other parties will see how they are worked out, and then they will be able to lift the blockade. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u59	Well, you know, you can read in Mrs Hammer's report what I said about which parties we will never, ever enter a cabinet with. If Mr Rutte chooses to do so, we will not join in. On the other hand, for reasons of substance, I have mentioned a party with which the differences are so great that they are unbridgeable. On other parties, in this case for example the Christian Union, we have said that they themselves are not eager to be at the front. We have seen in the previous cabinet period that it was, I believe, the seventh round. We have seen great differences in medical ethics and emancipation, but I have said that this is not desirable at this stage. Each party, perhaps yours too, I have honestly failed to read your report; I say this to Mr Azarkan, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, has explained its reasons why it sees a certain combination as not desirable and why it sees some cases as impossible. Then it is now up to us, born of necessity and responsibility, Mr Rutte, to jointly take this task a step further in the interests of the country. We do so on the basis of the content provided by the many conversations, including from all the other conversations that the informant has had with civil society representatives and representatives. In this way we can see exactly what can happen anyway in order to move towards a number of solutions for the major themes that have been presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr. Azarkan, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u61	But doesn't that mean you could've talked it through? You could've talked to the parties, couldn't you? If the themes are acceptable to all parties but the impact still requires some more energy, then you could have continued talking. Yet it was not chosen. I would like to point out that it is not so much a question of the content of the issues and their impact, but rather of the fact that a number of parties say that they do not want to work together in this composition. Then I wonder how that relates to a rather rational, cool approach, namely that if we start writing on themes long enough, parties that have not excluded each other for that substantive effect will close each other again in their arms. How does Mrs Kaag see that process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u62	I see the process very pragmatic. We can do a lot of laps for a long time. We could have walked in and out for many weeks. Unfortunately, the country would have heard a repetition of moves, I fear, and there would have been a huge waste of time on the part of the content. I think it is a good solution to use the time, in an attempt to break the deadlock, to look at the broad lines of the informant's report towards solutions anyway. In August, when everyone is fresh and cheerful again, everyone can make a suggestion from the text of the informant. If this is your real question, we do not see content-based differences with parties such as GroenLinks and PvdA which prevent them from connecting. I have already expressed an early and consistent wish that I have a preference for being as broad as possible and as stable and progressive as possible. I've always said literally: I'm thinking about... And then I'll name a couple of parties. But we're not the only ones making the move. We're not the biggest party either. We take responsibility. We will continue to look at the content. I am assuming that you know that this is a difference between Mr Rutte and myself, a coalition as broad as possible and a majority coalition. You can see in the reports that I also attach great importance to a majority in the Second and First Chambers. It is precisely in a time of political fragmentation and great differences that it is good that we have a wider majority. That's what we're attached to. Everyone's gonna talk about the end result, I hope. That also fits in with the political tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u63	Finally, a brief question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u64	It's a very short question, Mr President. Is Mrs Kaag van D66 willing to join a cabinet that is not part of GroenLinks or the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u65	I am prepared to take responsibility for breaking this impasse and to continue talking about its content at the moment. I think we should give it time. It is very clear what we stand for and what we hope to get out of. You're asking me something I don't have to answer right now. My commitment is on behalf of D66. You heard my lines. We will continue to work for a cabinet as broad and progressive as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you, Mrs Kaag. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders. Oh, he's got an interruption first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mrs Kaag said that she didn't want to start the current coalition, including the Christian Union, because that's like driving a rusty car. I understand that from her, because of course her favorite means of transport is the plane. From Niger to Luxembourg: "The more CO2 you can emit, the better" is Mrs Kaag's motto. But apart from that, it's a harsh statement. You say about your current coalition partner, the Christian Union, that continuing with that party is like driving a rusty car. Can I assume that means that you don't want to go with the Christian Union in that rusty car, or do you like driving rusty cars?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u68	I'm very happy about this! I am not always happy with Mr Wilders' questions or comments, certainly not on Twitter, but this is a good one. You missed a fragment. That wasn't broadcast. The question to me was focused on medical-ethical. The question was, walking away from the Stadhouderskamer: the theme medical-ethical has been parked in the current coalition for four years; can you leave it parked for four more years? My answer was: "It's like parking a car too long: it rusts, and then it doesn't drive well anymore." It was therefore explicitly about the subject of medical ethics, never about the party and certainly not about the colleagues of the Christian Union, nor about the cabinet or about Mr Segers. Indeed, we have a very good understanding on many themes. We laughed very hard about it, too. So you can see how sometimes the broadcast is not completely complete and does not do justice to what has really been said. But more importantly, as I said in reply to Mr Azarkan, it is not desirable or logical for us at the moment. We see a number of major differences. We see other options, which do justice to the vote given to us by the electorate. Then there's your other comment. I do not know if I have left the Kaagbaan, but the ministries always look very carefully at the overcrowded agenda, in this case of someone doing two ministerial jobs, who is party leader and who is now also here. Sometimes logistics is the only option. Unfortunately, to get back to the Chamber in time, you have to use a short flight. You will see in the schematics of all others that unfortunately I am not the only user. We're all gonna have to add another tooth. And for cycling to Luxembourg, I'm not fit enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u69	No, of course; keep flying, I'd say. The problem is not that you fly; the problem is that you set very high values for other people, such as 'flying may not', 'extra tax', 'fly tax' and 'you name it', and that you just fly to Luxembourg. You don't get the car or the train, but you just come up with all the excuses. You come up with all the excuses, ma'am. Anyway, that's not what this interruption is about. About the point of the rusting car. Mr Rutte also seems to have gotten very angry about it. "Rusty cars, you don't talk about coworkers like that," I read in a newspaper. So that's why you're so crazy. That's why you're saying we laughed very much about it. But you said a rusty car. That was, of course, about that medical-ethical point, because that is precisely why you do not want the Christian Union. For the rest, the Christian Union is just a left-wing party. A real left-wing party, I say to Mr Rutte. They want more immigration, they want more climate change, they are all on your side. Except in the medical-ethical field. And that is what you said: the pain between D66 and the Christian Union is the medical-ethical. And that's what you said: a rusty car. Then may I ask the question again? Are you going to go on with that medical-ethical issue for D66 with that rusty car or are you saying: no, I am not; any combination but not with that rusty car of the Christian Union in the field of medical-ethical? Just answer the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u70	It is a nice question from Mr Wilders, but frankly my answer is the same again. So I repeat that. We have said that it is not the right time, that it is not desirable as far as we are concerned. Mr Segers himself has also said on several occasions that he does not necessarily see a role at the moment. But you can ask him yourself. I have also just said in my statement that we have six parties, and that is, of course, including the Christian Union, which would have liked to have seen a process on a full basis, so that participation can be achieved. So we're in a whole different phase of the process now. I will continue with Mr Rutte, provided that this Chamber supports the motion, to move further towards possible solutions as a starting point for formation and negotiation. And again, "parking" was about the theme, never about parties and persons. And you know that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u71	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u72	But the theme is precisely the problem, Mrs Kaag. It makes no sense and I fear I will not get through this, but I think we can draw the conclusion that Mrs Kaag is really one of those politicians who shouts a lot, but does the opposite, that she never really lives up to her words. You call for all of us to fly less and you get on a plane to Luxembourg. And you've already flown around the world four and a half times while you have such a big mouth when it comes to climate. At least you have not denied that working with the Christian Union in the field of medical-ethical is a rusty car and you are now simply backing back. You're out of your mind. You have no backbone and you just let it all happen. And that is just extremely unfortunate, because I think you have won that formation with Mr Rutte in your own right. Do you remember that a few months ago you tabled this motion of censure, not of mistrust, but of censure, and thus made Rutte lame? Then why are you getting so beeped at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u73	It is really funny to stand here and listen to Mr Wilders. In the first instance, of course, I have tasks in the national interest, which force me to move. And that is what we are doing with the resources we have for that. Unfortunately, you will never be in that position, because I think you will never rule, not as long as D66 is in this room and people vote for us. That's also because you run a discriminatory policy. And that's why you're out of the question. So I wish you the chance that one day you will have the opportunity to move into the minister's office, because that means that the PVV has changed course. The second is: we are going to start, we are taking responsibility. We don't run away from Cathouse sessions, we don't scream on Twitter, we don't insult people, we don't discriminate. That's decency, that's a straight back, and that's for being a policy, even if it's hard, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u75	I have to suppress the tendency to feel like I have to tell a joke here first, because it all has to be cheerful. But maybe we can do it with a simple interruption. The discussion has focused on the need for a cabinet to respect the rule of law. There must be non-negotiable conditions. This includes climate, nitrogen, extravagance and everything. I can't wait to see how that went. I did not participate in these talks, but from a distance I get the impression that good climate policy is seen as an option, depending on whether or not a particular party participates. I wonder how Mrs Kaag looks at that? Can a guarantee be given that the negotiating document to be written is fully based on that lower limit that it respects the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u76	There is a Chamber-wide motion, but of course it has also been D66's commitment, also in this campaign. So there are a number of themes in which it will apply to us, but that will also apply to other parties too, and it is very important that we do not come below a certain threshold and that we achieve it. But as far as the rule of law is concerned, I think that this entire Chamber should feel committed to that, whether you are opposition or future coalition. Important steps must have been taken. A motion has also been passed on this. So it is a matter of urgency and I hope that all the parties above rise and forget themselves in it. Because it's all about people in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u78	I can fully agree with those words, but we still see so little of them. So on what basis can we trust this? I would like to point out to Mrs Kaag that, in turn, it is less cheerful to say that it was also the cabinet in which D66 was in which there was another two new lawsuits: on climate and on nitrogen. So obviously there has to be something fundamentally different and I haven't seen anything of it yet. So is that going to happen when she writes a document with Mr Rutte, or how is that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u79	There are a number of themes that should be addressed by this outgoing cabinet as short or as long as it takes. These are, of course, the judgments, the solution to nitrogen, even if you want to build, and of course the climate crisis. There can't be a day when we have to act differently and better. It's also the stakes of D66 and it doesn't change. It's in all our letters to the informant. This will also be reflected in our discussions. What the end result is, as Mrs Ouwehand knows, is also a result of negotiations with whom you are sitting at the table. But our commitment will be very ambitious. By the way, it is widely shared. This isn't a left or right hobby, or a D66 hobby. Most people in the Netherlands know that we have a lot of steps to take. The question is: is the citizen going to experience this, what choices are we going to make and how are we going to finance this? The Climate Act and the Climate Agreement are, of course, already a good basis. And internationally, as we have also seen in the United States, it is drawn everywhere, at different levels. The negotiations are an important part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u80	I would like to end with a brief question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u81	Finally, Mr President. I am concerned about this last answer. I want to believe that it is the commitment of D66, but Mrs Kaag keeps the option open here that, depending on the parties involved, the outcome is that we are going to sit below the lower limit in which a next cabinet respects the rule of law. That's what the answer came down to. If that has to be corrected, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u82	No. I don't know if I should fix it. It's your understanding, but I don't think anyone else understood it that way. I want to reassure you: of course we are not going under a lower limit, certainly not; I am just saying that. There is also a clear commitment of D66. The other is, of course, that we have never said that co-thinking and co-writing by definition means that we participate. We will also assess the final result on what lies ahead, if that reassures you, I say through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u83	I agree with the words that it would be nice to have a cabinet as progressive as possible. I just heard Mrs Kaag say that it has stood still in the medical-ethical field for the last four years and compare it with a rusty car. But there are also other themes, such as migration, which have really stood still in recent years and where it has always deteriorated. With longer waiting times at azc's, camp Moria that we still have and the pushbacks we see. How is Mrs Kaag going to ensure that we are going to make progress again on this issue, where we have actually fallen through that lower limit, especially if she is going to write with the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u84	I recognize Mr Dassen's concern. I am also grateful to him for the question. I don't know how I'm gonna guarantee that. We're gonna work together, think together. The commitment of the VVD is of course clear on this theme, but so is ours. We would like an integrated approach to a theme such as migration. Then you also think about knowledge workers and seasonal workers, which we need in the future in an ageing Netherlands. How can we strengthen and improve integration in the Netherlands, but also implement a humane asylum policy? That is what we are doing, particularly at European level. That's what this outgoing cabinet is already working on. Only steps are taken at European level, as this is a chain, including secondary migration; not only asylum seekers, of course, but also irregular migrants in particular. This chain can only be effectively picked up at European level. I don't want to anticipate that. Hopefully there will soon be some progress in the negotiations on this point. I can't refer, but it's under negotiation. Let me put it this way. Not at national level, but at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u85	I'd like to get on with that. In Mrs Hammer's report, the issue of migration is actually rather limited. It's called in a small sentence. There is also my concern: are we not just going to hide behind the European cooperation that is needed for this, but can we ensure that we take steps in the Netherlands and that this issue is prominently on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u86	It comes on the agenda in any case, because it lives in the country and it is important for everyone, with different perspectives and, of course, expectations and conditionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you, Mrs Kaag. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV. There is a question first from Mrs Marijnissen. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. You were in my blind spot. It is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u88	What are we gonna do about that today? It was such a happy debate. It seems like a cheerful debate, but I can see that I am a bit disturbed by it. That is what my question to Mrs Kaag is about. I heard her say that there is a clear report, with seven main themes, and that the content has been so well discussed. But look at those main themes. One. Probable and sustainable society. Two. Sustainable economy and strengthening earning power. Three. Digitisation and innovation. Four. Cheers. I'm very sorry to have to say it here, but aren't those total open doors? That's what the whole election campaign was about. On the contrary, there is very little in it about the content. My question to Mrs Kaag would therefore be as follows. She has made a commitment to this, and she repeats it here today: I want a cabinet as progressive as possible. Can Mrs Kaag here today indicate to which three concrete things, therefore, are not vague, abstract concepts, intentions and ambitions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u89	It might be good to stay with the informant's language for a while. It will not be a coalition agreement, it will be a basic document, which will be a starting point for negotiations in formation. That must result in a coalition agreement. This is the language ahead of you. If I may give you an example of "probable inclusive society": I look from education. Then we want to look at the inequality of opportunity, which is structuralally at the basis of education. How do you bring children to an equal level of learning and how do you prepare them for the future? In addition, you tackle the shortage of teachers. What's it gonna take? Then you look at the type of neighborhoods where the backlogs are incurred. What are the approaches, remedies and solutions that suit them? How do you direct that? In the end, it is always a division of scarcity. In this case, it is the best solutions, or a number of solutions, for the same problem. When it comes to the climate crisis, how can we make the country greener? How can we hand it over to the next generation? How do you direct the energy transition? Do you have to go faster? How are we going to finance that? What choices are there? I'm not gonna fill that out right now, honestly. We're just gonna start a lot of conversations. Those appointments still have to be made with the informant. You are asking me to get ahead of this, but as far as I am concerned, we want to be as forward-looking as possible, and I think the co-author, Mr Rutte........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are major challenges and we are going too slowly. We're too incremental. It often gets stuck in measures that sometimes interfere with each other, and that is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u90	I don't know if I'm asking Mrs Kaag to look too far ahead. To my knowledge, we are three months after the elections and it is a very legitimate question. If it is said again "future-oriented things, because there are great ambitions and great challenges"... Yes, what do you say? That's a genuine question. That's what I'm really wondering. I ask you to mention three things. Every time you say: I bet on a cabinet as progressive as possible. We are very concerned about this; you know that. Because we don't think a Rutte IV is going to be much more progressive than III, II, or I. But that's our trade-off. Mrs Kaag is making a different assessment. I am asking her today which three specific points are to be addressed, and I do not mean challenges for the future generation, because we can all think of that, with all due respect, she wants to test it. I am also asking this question in the context of today's debate where the terms 'left' and 'right' fly through the Chamber. The PVV is now left, the Christian Union is left, everything is called left here. The outgoing Prime Minister recently said to me "we live in a deep-socialist country," but now he says again "we live in a center-right country." Shoot me! Shoot me! Shoot me! Many people have voted for you, Mrs Kaag, who want a progressive cabinet. What does that mean for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u91	It may be the acoustics, it may be my choice of words, but I have just mentioned examples, such as the effects of a climate challenge. I have taken an example in the large sector of education, I have mentioned learning disadvantages. Part of the solution is to see which neighbourhoods and why children learn worse. This is partly due to the training and financial conditions of parents. What can we do about it? I have mentioned a number of examples. Mrs Marijnissen may not like it, but they are very consistent with D66. They're practical and they're in our election program. They are in the letters to the informant and they really belong to a large part of the challenges we have. I can repeat it once again, I have other examples, but that does not matter, because I do not think Mrs Marijnissen wants to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u92	Elaborations of challenges we have. Yes, I understand. Anyway, I have to conclude that today we are going to have some kind of summer sleep period in which Mrs Kaag is going to lock herself up with Mr. Rutte and write something. There's also a vacation in the back, but I'm not getting much better at this today. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u93	To the Minister, or to the leader of the political group...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u94	Group leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u95	I always get it mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u96	Everyone here is now the leader of the political group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u97	I heard Mrs Kaag say 'one of the challenges is: how can we make the Netherlands greener?' We have simple solutions for this in our election programme. In any case, this is not an equal sacrifice of agricultural land for housing and plundering with mega-sun parks, the windmills on the IJsselmeer and the North Sea. There are very simple solutions for this, only D66 would like to have homes on farmland and megazon parks. So my offer is to talk to us again and go over our election program together. There are very practical points and the question is: will the Minister, sorry, Mrs Kaag look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u98	We are always open to good ideas and they can always be taken. That's what the VVD thinks too, I think, so everything that can work and fits the ambition is looked at. You'd be stupid to be against a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u99	Then there's the last question. How does D66 look at halving the livestock? We know that if we take animals out of here, elsewhere in the world, more animals will come back for it. Climate change isn't going to make much difference around the world. What is the position of D66 at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u100	I think we should broaden it a little bit. Half-lived livestock is an important step that needs to be taken. Whether it's halving or not, I'll leave it in the middle for a while, but it's part of a broader strategy to achieve climate ambition. The way we farm in the Netherlands is part of the problem. It can also be a part of the change towards circular agriculture. The use of technology can be a major component. I will leave this to the next conversation; I do not want to make bold statements here. I know that it is a thorn in Mrs van der Plas' eyes that we attach to the percentage reduction in livestock. It is a big part of the problem, but it can be an even bigger part of the solution. That is what we are now discussing and negotiating, taking into account the views of all the interests of all. What is also important in this whole debate and what is not sufficiently appointed is that we have to pay a fair price to the farmer. The chain should be sustainable, including in terms of CO2 pricing in production. There are a lot of steps that need to be taken. Of course, farmers are not solely responsible for climate change. The government has a major role to play in taking the steps, in guiding and also in financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u101	It is not only a thorn in my eyes that there is a climate for the agricultural sector. I think it is clear that everyone has to take steps in this respect. But you just said a fair price for the farmer. Can we expect this to really be explicitly included in such an agreement? You're gonna write it later. Will it really be one of the points and will you come up with concrete proposals for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mrs van der Plas is pre-empting what this phase is. This is a starting point for developing solutions to the main lines of action. These are not yet negotiations at measure level. We're not at a formation table yet. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u103	Thank you, Mrs Kaag. Then I give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Almost 100 days ago, the Netherlands went to the ballot box. It was rarely made such a mess after the Lower House elections. The result of all that informative chatter and those backrooms is a very big zero. There is not one, but there is no view of a possible coalition. The formation has completely failed! If you think carefully about it and look at the political battlefield, that's actually not surprising at all. The leader of the largest party, Mr Rutte, is because of his own lies, deceit and wanting to eliminate an elected representative of the people. Of course, he should have left immediately after the motions of censure and mistrust. The man now lacks every moral compass and political authority. Because he excluded parties like the PVV before the elections, he has driven himself into the hands of left-wing parties. That's what he's squeaking about right now, but it's his own fault. And now Mr Rutte, together with Mrs Kaag van D66, is going to write a sketch of a coalition agreement. They have agreed together that Kaag dictates and notes Rutte, because that is the way the relationships lie. If Mrs Kaag has time for that and does not have time in her favourite means of transport, the plane, is on her way to Luxembourg or Niger, or is in the process of bringing ISIS terrorists to the Netherlands, with which she sympathizes. What Mrs Kaag sympathizes with is those extreme left-wing parties, GroenLinks and Party of Labour, parties that will bring our country to the brink of collapse with an open border policy and a climate madness. Although the VVD and the CDA have for the time being ensured that GroenLinks and the Labour Party are not immediately negotiated, they have not excluded those parties either. People need to realize that. A Deputy Prime Minister Klaver is still possible! Of course, that's a nightmare. And then there's the CDA, a party that actually only exists on paper. In the polls the party is still smaller than the Party for the Animals. Mr Hoekstra has done so well, and that must be admitted: such a great electoral effect in such a short time of his leadership. Compliments. The CDA is now the most unstable party in the Netherlands. After the expulsion of Mr Omtzigt and the Christian Democratic self-enrichment of Sywert van Lienden, they are in fact without existence. Luckily there will be such a fine party congress after the summer. Those are really wonderful meetings, which I, too, have been looking forward to since 2010. Mr. Chairman. All in all, it is no wonder that after 100 days it has not worked out with these parties. The VVD is exploded and wing lamb. The CDA is shriveling. D66 wants to rule with two left-wing dwarf parties, who actually only want to do so themselves, so that nine seats will not be forgotten, or that their leader might have to resign with eight seats. None of that is, of course, a basis for a new cabinet. That's a fight, that's disorder, and that's instability. The Netherlands deserves so much better. The Netherlands voted in a majority right and therefore does not deserve a left. New elections are desperately needed, and hopefully without Rutte. I told the Prime Minister before: take a hobby, a friend or a dog, because we have to move on with the Netherlands. The Dutch have to be the boss again in their own country. Immigration must be severely reduced. Islamization must be stopped. Taxes must be reduced. The climate obsession has to go into the trash. Care needs to be improved. The best recovery plan for the Netherlands is fast new elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u105	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. There is an interruption by Mr Rutte, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u106	What did Mr Wilders say about Mrs Kaag and her sympathy for IS fighters? Can he repeat that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u107	Sympathy for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u108	For IS fighters, I thought, or terrorists. He said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u109	Yes. The same sympathy applies to you. The fact that they are bringing ISIS fighters to the Netherlands, because they are supposedly pathetic and because they are women who have gone there, is a disgusting action. You can only do that if you have sympathy. I think that's a terrible thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u110	It seemed as if he made a specific remark about one of our MPs in relation to terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u111	No, that was Mrs. Bouchallichh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u112	I'm gonna finish this. So I understand that his comment is about bringing back one lady and three children. The debate is still taking place. I'm glad that precision is here now. That does not, therefore, affect Mrs Kaag personally, but rather cabinet policy. I'm not defending that here today. That happens later in a debate. I'm glad that's cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u113	No, I think you're confused. I was talking about Mrs Bouchallichh in an interruption. Then Mr. Klaver was so angry with me, but I was telling the truth. That was about Muslim extremistism. The same applies to Mrs Kaag. This does not apply to the whole cabinet policy. But it also applies to you, Mr. Rutte, and to Mrs. Kaag and to what you do. That is why it is so terrible when you start ruling with Mrs Kaag and left-wing parties: then more of this kind of crazy thing will happen. Then you, Mr Rutte, with your friends, Mrs Kaag, perhaps Mr Klaver or Mrs Ploumen, or with others who have supported this massively will bring ISIS terrorists to the Netherlands with the excuse that they will get a trial here. Everyone knows that after a maximum of a year or two they are back on the street, and that our streets become unsafe. That's why it's not my party, but Mr. Rutte's VVD is the left-wing party. You're all bringing terrorists from Syria to the Netherlands. You're making the streets here unsafe. That is disgusting and irresponsible policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u114	That's all bullshit. But it is not true that Mr Wilders in the direction of Mrs Kaag said that she is a sort of fancier, supporter or supporter of terrorists. I thought I heard him say that. He is referring to this, I understand, and it is good that this has been cleared up about the decision of the Cabinet to take specific action in very specific situations. There will be another debate on the House. I think it is important that this has been clarified, otherwise we would have had a bigger problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u115	There's nothing cleared up. You give your own interpretation to my words. I said what I said and I didn't finish anything. If I think she has sympathy for that, then she has sympathy for it, whether you like it or not. What the hell? Will Mr Rutte now interpret my words and say that he is happy that this has been cleared up? Get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u116	It's got something really uncomfortable sometimes. It's not always like that. I am very grateful to my colleague Mr Rutte. I'm just saying one thing. It must sometimes be very easy to be Geert Wilders, because you are throwing the most reprehensible accusations into the air. You repeat it on Twitter. You take no responsibility and you do not know what you do with the integrity and lives of people. I despise your words, and I say so with all the strength I have. It is despicable and nothing else. That does not require a parliamentary debate. You know exactly what I'm thinking and I know who I am. I'm also in a different role in government policy. This is careful, taking into account the security of the Netherlands and respect for the rule of law. I do wonder where you stand, Mr Wilders, when it comes to the rule of law and the rights of everyone, including the duty to do the hard thing. You'll never see it, and luckily you'll fall into the polls. You don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u117	Thank you. Mr. Wilders, before you say anything about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u118	I think I can respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u119	Yeah, but I want there... sure. I'll give you every chance later, but you did use a few words when it comes to sympathizing with ISIS. Mr Rutte has tried to clarify this point and you continue to say that you support it. I would like to say that I am far from speaking as President. The same applies to the wording of an elected Member of Parliament, Mrs Bouchallichh. You are talking about your own words, but I do think it is important to have made this known. It is also about the dignity of us as Second Chamber, the Cabinet and our MPs. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr President, I do not care at all what you think. Mr President, I would like to say a word about Mrs Kaag, who has now run away a little cowardly. So she's willing to hand out, but she can't collect. Is that the conclusion? Mrs Kaag swears at me and then walks away and dares not hear my answer? I'll give you the answer anyway. I say to Mrs Kaag, who is now cowardly absent: Mrs Kaag says to me that she despises my words. I say to Mrs Kaag that I despise her actions. I despise her actions incredibly deeply. It has not only brought ISIS terrorists to the Netherlands, irresponsible, who are about to get out and pollute our streets and put people at risk; putting families going to shopping centres at risk. There's hundreds more coming this way. That's what Mrs Kaag does. But Mrs Kaag has also previously subsidised Palestinian organisations that have been given murder to a Jewish girl, a Jewish underage girl, with Dutch money, by Mrs Kaag, with a car bomb. Mrs Kaag did that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u121	Mr. Wilders...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u122	No, I'm gonna finish my sentence, because I need to be able to respond to her accusation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u123	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u124	I'm glad she's back. Mrs Kaag, I despise your actions. You are bringing terrorists from Syria here to make our streets unsafe and you have ensured that with Dutch money a terrorist from the Palestinian territories with your money has gotten that money, he has been paid an Israeli girl with a bomb, killed with a car bomb. If there's anything despicable, it's your act, not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you. Mr. Wilders, I'd like to ask you to stay with the order of the debate. It's about the formation. There will be several debates, including on ISIS. I'm just appealing to you in that. Mr. Hoekstra of the CDA, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr Rutte was ahead of me, but I really want to say to Mr Wilders: you must dare. You must dare with the small things, that is to say to blame the Foreign Minister for going on a journey. You have to dare with the big things. This kind of thing, this kind of accusations against a colleague sitting here, like this. And that of a party leader who is the only one of all party leaders who leads an undemocratic, anti-democratic party here, because there is only one party leader here who does not have any members. So I'm glad he's looking forward to the CDA Congress, but he doesn't have any members. He calls this house, the highest representation of the Dutch people, a fake parliament. There's only one party leader who does that. And in that week that we all enjoyed Hungary again, there is one party leader, who sees Orbán as his great example, and that is Mr Wilders. That is Mr Wilders time and time again. It's a disgrace. We now know what is happening in the group itself. I have one question about that. Is it true that Mr Wilders, at the moment when someone is in the greatest possible difficulty, turns to him as an employer, and says "don't tell anyone else," he then sends a text message to one of his group members and says, "Oh, it doesn't matter, I'm your friend, I share that." Is that right or is that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u127	I do not go into this madness about unproven accusations, but when it comes to parties: you must, above all, continue this way; the CDA is almost a party without members. I have chosen from the outset not to have any members. Your party gets fewer members every day. And I'm telling the truth here. I am speaking the truth about your cabinet, which also supports you, because it was your CDA Minister of Justice who, together with Mrs Kaag, brought terrorists to the Netherlands. Then you can address me on an internal matter, which I am not going to say about. That is not up to you. That is none of your business, and I am not going to answer to you about it either, but you have to answer for the policy of the cabinet. Maybe not in that position you're in, but in the function in box K. In that position, you have Muslim terrorists coming to the Netherlands. Your colleague Mrs Kaag is funding people who commit attacks with Dutch money. And then you lecture me that I'm going too far. You're all going too far! If there are any left-wing parties in the cabinet in the near future, it will only get worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u128	Thank you. Finally, Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u129	What a scared, scared, scared thing. There is one party leader here who leads an undemocratic, anti-democratic party. I'm gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u130	Antidemocratic, like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u131	There is one party leader who calls this parliament, the highest representation of the Dutch people, a fake parliament. There is one party leader here who has a criminal conviction of the Dutch criminal justice officer on his hands. There is one party leader who cuts into his programme Article 1 of the Constitution. And there's also one party leader, the same one every time, who takes everyone's measure here. If you were to do all that and keep your mouth shut here, it would be up to now. But you're afraid to respond to it. You're not responding to that text. You're not responding to the fake parliament. You are not responding to that undemocratic content of your party. Again and again you are the one with the greatest possible mouth: from what you say about flying the Foreign Minister to all sorts of mischievous accusations against everyone here in this house. In itself, democratically, humanly and legally, it is one big mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u132	There is no better and more clear party than the Party for Freedom. It is sad for Mr Hoekstra of the CDA that his party has failed among us. He spoke with his screaming about standards and values within his party against Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr Wilders has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u135	It's very unfortunate for you, but I think I'm speaking now. I'm gonna take a wide measure of that. Do you remember what kind of filth your party, your colleagues and yourself probably did to Mr. Hoekstra, Mr. Omtzigt? Don't you see Mr. Omtzigt quit your party? He was given the most gross, nasty and nasty words, and I am not even going to repeat the words, Madam President-in-Office, assigned from your own group, and he said at some point: I am no longer a member of that party. We have all read Mr Omtzigt's report that he turned in for that Spies committee. And you're gonna lecture me on a text? Why don't you go back to your seat? Look what you've done yourself with swearing guns and filth towards Mr. Omtzigt. And then you're gonna lecture me? Your party is the most... well, I'm not going over it, but your party is a hundred thousand times worse than any party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u136	Finally, Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u137	Mr Wilders succeeds every time Rutte is standing here, that Azarkan is standing here and that Kaag is not standing here just to answer the questions he is being asked. And then he doesn't have to talk about me this time about that fake parliament. Then he doesn't have to talk about why he's looking forward to party congresses with members of other parties, but hasn't been able to meet that for a decade or so. Then he doesn't have to talk about the fact that he's the only one here who's been convicted by the Dutch criminal justice officer. But I ask him again: is it true that he was approached in his role as an employer by a desperate woman who said "something terrible happened to me," that that woman assumed that she could trust that her employer, Mr. Wilders, would listen to it and keep it to herself, and that Mr. Wilders would then pass it all through a text message? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u138	I'm not going into those internal affairs. If you want to talk about internal affairs, please respond to my point. It is easy to lecture me on something that I absolutely cannot answer: with whom I may or may not use an app or text message. I'll never give you an answer to that. But what did you do? What have you done towards Mr Omtzigt? You called him, your colleague here, rotten fish from the group. There are members of the political groups and political groups who lecture him. And now you're gonna lecture me on a text message about a colleague? Get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u139	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u140	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. It's the same song every time. It's every turn, turn, turn, and another reproach to someone here in this house. None of that would be so bad if you had your own business in order, or if the mess were just what it is and you kept your mouth shut about it. But every time here you lecture people, while you do so in all these areas, from the rule of law to your own employees: it's a gospel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u141	The PVV is a party that may be the only one here in this house to stand up for the ordinary Dutch, Mr. Hoekstra. We are a party who dare to say in this house that our judiciary with their punishments, their wrong sentences, and also a large part of journalism are unfair and not good. Yes, we dare say that. We also dare to say that the Netherlands has its own culture, that we should be proud of it, that we should not, like you, bring terrorists or even more people from Africa or the Middle East to the Netherlands. You will then be able to lecture me on this, but that is more your own displeasure and your own apathy to suggest anything political. For it has been your party that has itself called a member of your own group a rotten fish: Mr Pieter Omtzigt, who has now started for himself. It was your party that brought the terrorists from Syria to the Netherlands. It has been your party that time and again... The CDA, for all intents and purposes, Madam President. You mentioned the rule of law and trials against me. It has been your party that has ensured, among other things, that I have been totally wrongly prosecuted. That was your party, along with the VVD. Your minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u143	And now you're going to lecture me on the rule of law? In Rutte I, Madam President, a judge, member of the CDA, has been avenged and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u145	... later dismissed because he wrongly influenced witnesses. That's the CDA. And now lecture me on the rule of law? You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr. Wilders. I said at the beginning of this debate what it should be about. Now it's about a lot of other things except the formation. So I won't allow any more interruptions. I want to thank you. A point of order or a personal fact, Mr. Hoekstra? If you respond, Mr Wilders will respond again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u147	And that's his right, but I'm gonna do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u148	But very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u149	I'm gonna do it anyway, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna do it anyway. You see, a cat in a tight spot makes more and more weird jumps and needs more and more room for manoeuvre, more and more files to find another way out. I'm not gonna stand up for the CDA here, but I'm gonna stand up for the judiciary. 'Cause it's really crazy bullshit. It is utter nonsense and it undermines all those people who work there and who work with each other every day to ensure that the Dutch judiciary is independent and is internationally excellent for it. In order to put that easily here every time with one move in the dirt, it undermines the confidence in all the institutions we have. It doesn't make any sense. It is incorrect in substance. I'd say stop it! Stop that and accept that you've done something wrong yourself. Say sorry about the conviction. Put that party program in the shredder and proceed to order of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u150	On the contrary. I'm not gonna stop. We're moving on, and we're just getting started. The judiciary is not independent in the Netherlands. The judiciary, Mr. Hoekstra, is not independent in the Netherlands. Maybe on paper, but it's not like the majority of journalism on paper is independent, but it's not. It's often left-wing activists, judges and journalists, who make you look like you're from the PVV, but who can't even spell the word "right" or the word "independence."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u151	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then I give the floor to Mr Hoekstra of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u152	Thank you, Mr President. It's a good thing you let me warm up at the Interrupt Microphone. Let me begin by thanking Mrs Hammer most warmly, firstly for her angelic patience and also for her empathy. In any case, this has not been the case in the last few weeks, nor has it been the case with her extremely hard work. If you were to calculate it, I believe we could have come by in any more permutations, but otherwise, she'd have seen almost all the combinations appear at her desk. Mr. Chairman. Then about what's on the table. It's one in the category "that's the way it is"; I think we should be honest about that. If we're honest, it's somewhere in the middle of a surplace and the speed of the snail. At the same time, I think it is acceptable to many. Despite the very high expectations that there were at first and despite the considerable loss, Mr Wilders could not fail to remind us of that; that is one of the few things in his speech that were true. As CDA, we have always said: we are going to be constructive. A large number of options are therefore potentially negotiable for us to form a coalition. In my view, I have mentioned six, seven or eight different variants, all of which I would like to explore, because the reservation that there must be enough there remains, of course. I have also indicated that this was in the discussion on the final report; Mrs Hammer will recognize that, as far as we are concerned, there would be several follow-up steps, such as talking to the six, talking to four, Mr Rutte for once doing something on his own, but that this variant with the two is also acceptable to us, although the big question remains of course what exactly does this result in? I say that without cynicism, but the answer to that is, of course, still decided in the future. Mr. Chairman. I have one substantive question for Mrs Hammer. In her report, she refers to a working party of the Chamber to draw up the agenda for strengthening the democratic rule of law. That's part of the piece that she and I have often talked about. That's a good point for the CDA. There are many things that my group very much agrees with, but now Mr Van der Staaij has also gone to work. Although he was already working, he also worked with a working party of the Chamber, which also deals with the agenda for strengthening the democratic rule of law. My question to her is how she sees the work of the committee in relation to the proposals she makes herself, because in my view there is a great deal of overlap. But maybe there are things that complement each other. I think it would be a good idea, with a word that is becoming more and more popular, to clarify that in this debate. Mr. Chairman. Whatever the formation will bring us, we as a CDA will continue to work for a fair and strong economy and for a safe and inclusive society for all Dutch people, moving beyond the system thinking towards serviceable institutions, with balance between learning, working and caring, and with the human dimension at the forefront, bearing in mind in particular the next generation, which is often forgotten, even in this house. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u154	I'd love to spend it on the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u155	It's mutual, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u156	That's my favorite counterpart here in the room. Yes, because as I said, I am also looking for how I can contribute to a piece of joy. And then I thought, "Well, after all, it was the CDA that came up with the nitrogen plan that was fired by the judge, putting the whole country on hold and all that." And we have all heard Mr Hoekstra say difficult things in the last few weeks. But my simple question is: does the CDA actually feel a responsibility to solve these problems in the CDA's case as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u157	First of all about this joy: I think I understood Mrs Hammer so much that she laid it down as a general task. So if Mrs Ouwehand would say that that is actually too much for herself, I could understand that. As far as nitrogen is concerned, we have often said, including in the dialogue with the informant, that this is one of the major and also urgent problems that we will have to address for the sake of nature, but also for the sake of what we all want to do in the area of building, in the area of living. So that's what the outgoing cabinet is thinking about. There is also an important task for the forming parties. So when she says or asks me "is that high on the list in the category and important and urgent?', Then I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u158	Yeah, that's nice, but that wasn't the question, of course. And I'm not ruling out that we can't laugh at the same thing at the CDA and the Party for Animals. But I would like to tell Mr Hoekstra that it was also his cabinet. I mentioned it for a while: it was under Balkenende IV that the plan was devised. He has now also ruled and presented a so-called approach to this problem of nitrogen, in which it is now clear that we are going to go back to court. So even if the cabinet continues to be a missionary for a very long time, which it does seem a bit like, it seems to be the responsibility of the CDA to solve that problem, and therefore both farmers and Dutch people have to make it clear that we are going to reduce the number of animals in livestock farming significantly. Look, and if the CDA's gonna do that, then the Party for the Animals is gonna be very cheerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u159	That is not a policy objective in itself, the latter, and Mrs Ouwehand will forgive me. Look, of course, I would like to rake all the good works of the CDA, but also of the three predecessors of the CDA, all in this debate. And yet I think, when I call Balkenende IV "my cabinet," I have a complicated conversation with Mr Balkenende among others. I would like to repeat what I have just said: there is a vital challenge in the area of climate; there is also a vital challenge in the area of nitrogen. They are both important, they are both urgent, but in the Dutch context this nitrogen demand is very urgent. Why? Because there are all kinds of other societal questions connected with it. That is one of the reasons why I have repeatedly said so, Mrs Hammer, in a moment, to the Animal Party. And that's why I'm working with some of my colleagues in the cabinet to see how you can prepare for a next cabinet, that would ever happen. So the importance is obvious. That there are all kinds of difficult questions attached to them, I agree with Mrs Ouwehand. And if she decided to join the forming parties, we might be able to discuss that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u160	Mr Wilders, also for his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u161	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about Mr. Omtzigt. I spoke about this last time during the debate. It is also relevant to this subject, because from September your party will have one less seat in this house if Mr Omtzigt returns from sick leave. I ask the CDA colleague how it could have gotten so far that you, at least your party, within your group, talk about a colleague, Mr Omtzigt, who is widely appreciated in this country, as... I quote, Madam President, short de Volkskrant, screenshots of him being written about him as that "fucking asshole with those Nazi posters." And in conversations he is called, I quote again, President........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Within your group, within your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u162	No, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u163	Your question is clear. Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u164	Party, group. It says, I believe, "between group members and party members." Well, okay; everybody. How can that be so derailed that someone like Mr Omtzigt is standing here on behalf of the CDA today, I can address you to this sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u165	It is true that messages have been exchanged between members of our party. Those are messages which I have repeatedly said are very unfortunate. But if you have a party with members, that style figure is possible. It would be good if the PVV Group, Mr Wilders, would also consider that for a long time. Because his party... no, he doesn't have to mess around at the microphone. He just asked me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr Hoekstra has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u167	He just asked me if I could make him talk. Then he took all the time he needed. I thought that was such a good example; I'm just going to imitate him. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna start from the beginning. It is important to uphold each of those institutions that are vulnerable in democracy, no matter how difficult it is and how difficult it is sometimes with members. I can see the easy version of Mr Wilders. You will also see what goes wrong, even in my own party, I will recognize. From a democratic point of view, however, there is a great deal to be said for ensuring that everyone in such a party has the same position, has the right to participate and vote. We have a party here and a party leader, Mr. Wilders. He's back here at the interrupting microphone to take someone else's measure... who alone is the boss, decides everything and is the only member of his party. He calls this parliament the fake parliament. He has a conviction with the Dutch criminal court, the independent Dutch criminal court, hanging on his pants. He thinks we deserve a prime minister like Orbán and says that to Mr Rutte. He then came to speak after speaker after speaker in the highest possible tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u168	Mr. Rutte just smiled very kindly. When I'm standing there, he doesn't laugh, he does when his boyfriend's standing there. It's just the two of us getting one pot wet. But is that, that very long tirade, now your answer to my question? It's okay. You are probably going to repeat it in a moment; I am happy to listen. But is that the answer to my question? If you don't do it for me, then at least a little more respect for Mr Omtzig. Mr Omtzigt has left because within your party he was spoken of as a Hitler, an asshole, a fucking dog. Hitler moustaches were drawn. My party will let you find what you want. I don't care if you say it ten more times, but maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u169	That's what I'm gonna do. That's a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u170	I'm still talking. Do you understand? I'm still talking. Perhaps, out of respect for Mr Omtzigt, you could say a little more about how that happened. Perhaps you can say that at least you think that is not possible and that you have done something about it. That's politically relevant. But when you talk about my standards of decency and the decency of your own party, the answer is not: start a party yourself, then you can also get that kind of thing. No, there's dirty lyrics going to Omtzigt and you're walking away from it. You're afraid to say anything about it. You're just a big scaredy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr Hoekstra, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u172	No, Mr. Chairman, we're gonna clear this all out here. I'm learning every day. I see that Mr Wilders is very pleased to be speaking for a long time. I think he is listening selectively halfway through the course, so I repeat what I just said at the beginning, namely that I find it very unfortunate that party members of the CDA have made these comments to each other. But the big advantage is that within the CDA, even when things are not going well, everyone is willing to answer for it. We'll talk about that. In the end, you try to solve that with each other in transparency. My question to Mr Wilders was, is and remains: try it! Try that in all those cases, and try that in relation to the text. Just do that. Just do that! If Grapperhaus and Halsema have a text message conversation, you will be there as the chickens to ask the microphone to "extremely public this afternoon." You do this, too, this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u173	Thank you, Mr. Hoekstra. I would like to ask the Members of this House the following question. It's about a lot of other subjects, but we're really talking about the formation. So I'm gonna cut back on that now, because otherwise it's about everything but the formation debate. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u174	You assumed I was done, Mr. Chairman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u175	Actually, that's what I was assuming. Is that right, too? Thank you, Mr. Hoekstra. Mrs Marijnissen of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u176	Mr President, thank you. This should indeed be a debate on formation today, but I do not know exactly what we have been looking at in the last half hour. I don't think many people have learned more about the formation. That formation has been on its way for three months since the election. If it is up to the planning that is now in place, then it will be about five months after the elections before there really is serious negotiation. We've seen scout Ollongren's debacle. We have seen the discussion about "function elsewhere." We heard Mark Rutte's lies after that. We have seen here a motion of censure widely supported by the opposition. Now we have yet another failed attempt at formation, in which informer Hamer indicates that parties are actually in agreement on the content, but that there is a crazy debate about who wants to go with whom. Can she tell us a little bit more about that, is my question to her? Mr. Chairman. It all takes a lot of time. I actually know whose interest that time is. That time is not in the interests of the people who cannot even find a decent, affordable house at the moment, because there is no money in the housing crisis. That time is also not in the interest of all healthcare providers who are still waiting for their salary increase. The motion for a resolution by the SP was adopted here. No bag's gonna happen. Nor is this time in the interest of all those who have a minimum wage and who have been told throughout the election campaign that the minimum wage should really be raised. No bag's gonna happen. People still can't make ends meet. That time is not in their interest, but that time is in Mark Rutte's interest. Mark Rutte, whose cabinet fell, but who just wants to form a new cabinet. Mark Rutte, of whom the entire opposition here has widely said "we have no confidence in it anymore," but who simply wants to go through. Now I heard the informant say that the discussion about that trust in Mark Rutte was a little out of the loop. I think that was the word she used for that. I would like to ask whether she would like to explain exactly what she is basing it on, also because I can imagine that, for example, it is very painful for those affected families in the supplement scandal to hear that something has 'been evicted'. 'Cause for those people, nothing's gone away at the moment. Mr. Chairman. The SP certainly has ideas for the Netherlands and for a new coalition agreement. I shall mention a few here. One. Stop selling out what's ours all. What we consider so important is that we organise and pay together: care, safety, education, infrastructure, childcare. Two. Organising solidarity, including between generations. I'm talking about AOW, but I'm also talking about a good scholarship. Then I'm not talking about preying on our Earth. Three. Fundamental reforms of our economy; an economy that works for everyone. Yesterday was in the news that last year, during the corona crisis, 214.000 millionaires were added. At the same time, the number of people who are homeless and the number of people who need to go to the food bank is increasing. We must tackle this inequality. In this crisis, the cost of the crisis has been collectiveised. Our taxpayers' money is currently going to companies with billions of dollars. Those companies are gonna make a profit again. What happens to that profit? Is this profit also distributed among society? I don't think so. That profit will be distributed among the shareholders. So the cost of the crisis is for the community and the profits are for the shareholders. That has to change. We're gonna get a Rutte IV. That much is clear, because there are apparently enough parties in this Chamber who want to make a Rutte IV possible. The SP won't do that. We've always been clear about that. We're also getting a little bit of summer sleep. I just called it summer sleep. That's how it sounds to me. Two missionary ministers are going to write something. This should lead to new leadership and a new governance culture. I wonder how credible that is. We are not cynical, certainly not, but I do expect a firm opposition time for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u177	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mrs van der Plas and then to Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u178	I actually want to make a point of order. Because D66 and VVD are supposed to be writing later, but the leader of the VVD is not in the Chamber throughout Mrs Marijnissen's speech. To be honest, I don't think that's possible. I can even hear a lot of laughs in the hallway. I would actually like to ask whether Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag, during this debate, in which each party has a serious input, with which you can agree or not, simply want to remain in the Chamber, unless there is, of course, a very urgent message. But that does bother me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u179	You made your point of order. I think that's what's being heard. It is ultimately up to Members, but it is indeed a good thing to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u180	I was just here, so I heard Mrs. Van der Plas. I would just like to say that Mr Rutte and I are either'me and Mr Rutte', but it is 'Mr Rutte and I' here as party leaders, and not as missionary ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u181	I would like to respond briefly. I see that Mr Rutte is also on board and listening in. That's nice. I understand that you are in this role today, Mrs Kaag, of course, but you also have a role in the outgoing cabinet. Of course, I can also appeal to you. I ask you again and again to be specific. A lot of people voted for D66. Tell me, what are the benchmarks for you for this progressive government agreement that needs to be reached in the end? But that doesn't make sense to me, because when I ask, nothing comes. So don't blame me that the image exists now, and not just with the SP Group... It may also be a bit the gap between The Hague and the rest of the country, but the picture of a lot of people right now is that there's going to be a summer sleep, that you're going to write together, that no one really knows which way it's going, that there's going to be a vacation in the back and that there's going to be a serious mid-August? Five months after the elections, real serious negotiations are only going to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u182	It's very practical. I have mentioned some good examples, but Mrs Marijnissen does not want to hear it or will not accept it. That's nice. There's a trial. That has been discussed in detail. We'll hear from the informant what's going on. And your first point was a point of order. We are all sitting here as colleagues in the Chamber, so it is not appropriate to mix those hats for a moment. Those who are missionary ministers, none of them are in trade "K." We are standing here and, fortunately, we can also talk back when things are suggested, let alone when things are taken out of contexts. But it is very important that I know what we stand for. The voter knows that, too. And we have 24 seats to thank for that. A big difference with the SP!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u183	It's Mrs Kaag quite high, I understand. I think she can just talk back in her other role, as she calls it. I am concerned that I still do not get a clear answer if it continues to hide behind vague language as 'challenges for the future' and 'ambitions for the next generation'. It doesn't help me. Mrs. Hamer, I've been studying the 108 pages, I think. I read them all yesterday. I have just mentioned a number of key points as formulated. Then it's about a sustainable economy, then it's about health. That is such an open door, that is so nothing to say, that I think it is perfectly normal and legitimate that I should ask you here what you are going to test such an agreement on which you are committed. And it doesn't get clear over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u184	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. It is indeed a good thing to point out that people are here not from their role as a outgoing cabinet but as a group leader. I'd like to suspend for five minutes, just to stretch my legs, let's just say. Then I would like to ask Mrs Ploumen and Mr Klaver to make their contribution. After that, I'd like to suspend for lunch. I hope that can count on your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u185	I would ask Members to take their place again, including Mrs Hermans and Mr Jetten. Then we can go back to the other members, who can get the attention, first Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA. Some members have indicated that they want to go on a little longer, so let's see how far we get. But I'd still like to have a lunch break around 2:00. I call Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the informant for her thorough work and for her final report. An informant has as much space as the parties give her. Thank you for her commitment and also for the determination with which she wishes to carry out her mission. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands faces a major challenge. The inequality between people is increasing. Existence securities, very common things like an affordable home, care available, a qualified teacher for the class, are under pressure. People feel that the government is no longer on their side and that it needs to change. We urgently need a new cabinet, a cabinet that can count on broad support in society and in parliament. Three months after the election, such a cabinet is far from in sight. The target is now starting calls in mid-August. As if there were no problems to solve and as if a missionary cabinet, which is now sitting and which has resigned to rule the supplemental scandal, could just go on and on. Voters who chose on 17 March for parties who still talked at the time about the importance of a broad consensus, the importance of a fast formation, I think feel a little bought. Because it is the same parties that do not want to talk about the formation of a coalition that can count on a majority. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is the right of the CDA and the VVD to hold each other, as GroenLinks and the Labour Party do. However, I note that where two left-wing parties are prepared to start talks about a majority coalition, two right-wing parties do not want that. Mr. Chairman. VVD and D66 are now going to work; they are going to write. They have become the greatest, and that is up to them. But I still think it's a choice of weakness, because the Netherlands is actually the way our history keeps going when parties are willing to talk to each other, to see what problems we can solve together, what it takes: can we come together? My group therefore prefers simply to start with that. Different majority coalitions are conceivable. With left-wing parties for a cabinet as progressive as possible, but if you look at the results, you will see that there are other options as well. Anyway, people are wondering: are our problems being solved? Get together, talk to each other. There is no question of rushing to find solutions that are right for the people of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u187	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Hoekstra of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u188	It is the right of each group chairman to explain the position of his own group. One thing Mrs Ploumen just said about what the position of the CDA would be, I really want to mark as different from how I said it and how I said it to the informant who will be able to explain it and how I discussed it with Mrs Ploumen. I think it is important to repeat that. That is that we have not fulfilled the high expectations in the elections. That's what we've been saying. It is the result that makes sense to go into opposition. Given how complicated that result is, we are prepared to talk about a majority cabinet. I have always indicated that there is a very wide range of parties, from the SGP and JA21 to Volt and the Labour and GroenLinks Party. Then I forget one or two more; I mentioned the SP before. We're willing to explore it in all those variants. I think it is important to highlight that, because it is fundamentally different from what Mrs Ploumen just suggested towards the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u189	In particular, I have remembered that Mr Hoekstra has listed a list of parties that exclude the CDA: PVV, Forum for Democracy, Labour Party and GroenLinks. Mr President, I find that completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u190	Now I am going to dress it up, because this does not do justice to the conversation that Mrs Ploumen and I had with the informant, and whatever I will repeat here. I have always stated, even before the elections, that the CDA has a fundamental objection to ruling with the PVV and with the Forum for Democracy and that we will not abandon that objection in principle. I have also always indicated that, although the outcome is sad from our point of view, we may be willing to talk with a whole range of parties. This includes the PvdA and GroenLinks, despite the large differences in content. It is important to mark that time and time again, because Mrs Ploumen suggests that that is different. No. I would have liked those two parties not to have put on a concrete lifejacket and to be open to discussion. We would like to explore with the PvdA and possibly also with GroenLinks. But I also think it makes sense to look at the smallest possible majority in the House of Representatives. What Mrs Ploumen says is really not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u191	I do nothing more than repeat Mr Hoekstra's words. I would also have preferred that he hadn't pronounced it, because it's the wrong line. In football terms, I mean it's the left row I'd like to be in. It is fine that Mr Hoekstra says he wants to talk. The Labour Party is also willing to talk; we share that. We have always said that we like to do this together with GroenLinks. We also wanted to do that with two right-wing parties holding each other; that is their right. But it's the CDA that's causing a blockade on those calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u192	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u193	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thanking the informant and her team for all the discussions she has had. It has brought to an end the almost impossible task given so that at least there will be a follow-up in the formation process. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. During the debate, I often had to think of the 70,000 children who are the victims of the premium scandal, 70,000 children who have grown up in poverty in recent years because of the government. And rightly so, the cabinet has resigned. 70,000 children. I really don't have it often that I'm standing here in the hall and I'm ashamed of what's going on here, but my God, what was this show? And Mr. Wilders, with you in the lead. It's not the big Geert Wildersshow, it's not the show who can debate the funniest, who can be the most focused and aggressive, who can say funny that the leader of the VVD is the pull doll of D66. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u194	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u195	Great, now you're doing it again: making jokes. Go do cabaret, go make a senior conference. The point here is that we have to try to solve people's problems. Of 70,000 children, that's as many children as there are people living in Gouda, an entire city has taken away the youth. They're people who grew up in poverty. Those are the people we have to do it for. We often call politics a game in The Hague, but that game is easy to play if you have nothing to lose, if you have a steady income, like we as MPs, and if time is patient, as Mrs Marijnissen said. But time is not patient for those 70,000 children. Time is not patient for all those people who can't find a home. Time is not patient if we want to tackle climate change. That is why it is of the utmost importance that a missionary cabinet be established soon, which can count on broad support in the Lower House and, as far as I am concerned, also in the Upper Chamber. I understand Mrs. Marijnissen when she asks: do you have to start ruling with Mr. Rutte? I honestly do not think that Mr Rutte is going to change very much. But to get along in this country, despite all kinds of setbacks you encounter and despite election results, you try to move forward. The Labour Party and GroenLinks are taking the step by saying that despite everything that has happened, they are prepared to talk. I don't know if we're gonna get out of this, but let's try on the content. Some say there's something here from the informant that has little substance. I don't agree. If you see how this describes what the big challenges are, then that's a lot. There is no doubt about the increased inequality that needs to be addressed. I haven't seen that before in an informant's report. What is being written about climate change and what additional steps need to be taken, I have not seen before. There are six parties that say that this is a good starting point for moving forward. Explain to me whether, even better, explain to the Netherlands why you would not be able to negotiate a majority coalition. It's inexplicable. You're gonna have to have that conversation with each other. And yes, we want to do that with the Labour Party, as the VVD and the CDA would like to do with each other. I don't know if we're gonna get out. I really don't know, because the differences are still big. But at least you have to try it with each other. I find it really disappointing that this does not happen and that the CDA is so firm in its rejection, rather than looking at how one could get on with one another in terms of content. I support the steps outlined by the informant, because in the end, politics is far too important for political games or for the question of who you like or not in this field, what the picture is like and what it looks like. Imaging is far too dominant in this field. Then there's another video about how stubborn we've been, but it's about what we can do for the people in the Netherlands. 70,000 children, a city like Gouda, who have been in trouble by the government. That's what we need to focus on. The rest is all side business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u196	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u197	Just for the paperwork. I think there's a difference. From the VVD we always like working with parties like D66 and CDA, because they are politically close to us. But it's not like we're ruling out Cabinets they're not in. The fact is that with this election result simply building a stable majority cabinet with, outside the VVD, D66 and CDA is not possible. I find that a difference in the cooperation you seek with Mrs Ploumen. I respect that, but it's a difference. I also heard Mrs Ploumen say it, but I wanted to add that precision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u198	That's your view, but it's really looking for nails on low water. We have had a debate with each other on a new governance culture. In fact, I'd be fine negotiating a cabinet with six parties. Why? Because we need to get rid of the idea that you need the smallest possible majority, as Mr Hoekstra said, to get somewhere with each other. Why? Then we start again with the question of who with whom, when we thought we had found something brilliant with each other. Let's try it through the lines of content. One more thing. When it comes to stability, I think it is right, especially at this time, to look at very broad support, especially when we look at the situation of certain parties. I find it really a weakness and unbelievable to say that only with the CDA can we build a stable cabinet. Mr. Rutte, you know it's not true. There are also combinations imaginable without the CDA. I'm not pushing on that. I understand that this is also politically important to you. There are combinations conceivable, but they are unnegotiable for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand of the Party for Animals for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Who can and wants to go with who? Who's politically close? Does the country need a cabinet that is stable and that is going to solve the challenges of today? Oh, yeah. But the most important question that needs to be asked first has still not been answered comfortably. First of all, the Netherlands needs a cabinet that respects the rule of law, that cares very much about everything that has happened in the surcharge affair and that does everything possible to restore the incredible violation of our rule of law and of what citizens can count on in the Netherlands. This is frightened by new threats of climate and nitrogen lawsuits. Why? Because you didn't stick to that. Those are also state-of-the-art matters. We haven't seen the beginning of that. What lingers is: everything has to be different, but don't think I'm gonna do it any differently. Mr. Chairman. So the Party for Animals likes to start with the fundamental questions. Also when it comes to the recovery plan, for example, we have missed the question of what should actually be restored: an economy that is in the service of its citizens, which does not destroy our living environment, a climate crisis, a biodiversity crisis. That kids have to grow up in an environment with such dirty air that they spend every week in the hospital with their asthma problems. If you don't know this is your job if you want to join a government, what are you doing at the negotiating table? Mr. Chairman. I think it is precisely parties like the VVD and the CDA that should make great movements. That should not depend on whether a party participates in the negotiations which happens to be profiling itself in the area of climate. You must comply with the Paris climate agreement yourself. You have to comply with the higher regulations that we have signed when it comes to the nitrogen crisis. We don't see the beginning of that. The Netherlands needs a cabinet in which the people can have confidence and which respects the rule of law in such a way that the painful issues of climate and nature for the VVD and the CDA are resolved generously and wholeheartedly. Mr. Chairman. We have sent the informant several letters, one of which was changed after the Animal Law was amended. We have pointed out to the informer that for 20 years it has been possible to count on very broad political support that we no longer adapt animals to the system, but the system to the animals when it comes to livestock farming. Those were promises of a cabinet with VVD, D66 and the Labour Party, followed by "yes," note the CDA and the Christian Union, who were in Balkenende IV. Those plans were then supported by the entire Chamber. Some parties felt that it was not fast enough, but 2022 was the deadline. The informant was eagerly looking for topics on which there was agreement. There is political agreement on this. So we need a cabinet that makes a plan to implement this amended law. A cabinet starting with this and respecting the rule of law could regain the confidence of the people. That seems to me very important in these times, with the crises that we have to resolve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u201	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u202	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the informant very much for her work. She's had a lot of training at the SER to bring parties together, but I think that all the skills she's learned there are now really useful in this process. I want to thank her for serving us in that. We need to go one step further. I believe that this has been achieved and that it is a good thing to take a step in a very complicated process. At the same time, I also feel discomfort, and I think Mr Klaver put it quite eloquencefully. Discomfort over the time needed, the political inability to break any stalemate. Of course, we also play a role in this. I still believe that the Christian Union is not in a position to talk about possible coalition participation. That's what I indicated in the interviews with the informant. We do not need numbers, and I must also say that we are not wanted by everyone at the moment. At the same time, we feel responsible for doing what is right at the political crossroads where we are now. We will be constructive in the coming period, as always, in whatever role. The next year should not be a lost year. We can't afford that. First of all, we need to work on a government that is there for citizens, a government with a face, where you can go, a window where you can go with your story. There must be justice to victims of the premium affair. Getting the recovery operation in Groningen with an impulse. Work needs to be done on the new governance culture. The informant makes very good recommendations for this. We need to get to work on that, and as a Christian Union, we are happy to take on that glove. The ChristianUnion Group is also positive about the suggestion of informant Hammer to put the outgoing cabinet to work with the so-called recovery policy, aftercare policy and late maintenance. In the short term a catch-up can be made which is necessary. This could lead to a policy-rich budget. In addition, the informant has identified a number of pressing challenges, where there is no time to lose, but where there is no easy solution. As far as my group is concerned, the outgoing cabinet is also taking the initiative to arrive at broad-based and structural solutions as soon as possible. At the same time, the informer suggests ordering the leaders of the two largest groups to come up with a taste of a coalition agreement. Whether this will lead to a breakthrough in the formation, I do not know, but for now it is a substantive step that can be taken as far as I am concerned. It is clear that the parties who are going to write this document on the main lines think very differently from the Christian Union on many subjects. The Christian Union will soon assess the outcome of this process on its content, as may be expected from all parties. We evaluate final tests on what is important for the Christian Union: better care for each other, better care for creation and another, serviceable government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u203	Thank you, Mr Segers. I would then like to give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy, but I do not like that. So I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, a thank you to the informant. It was up to the informant Herman Tjeenk Willink to calm down the formation, to bring after the debates on dualism and the need for a different administrative culture, reflection and reflection. It took time. But since then, time seems to stand still, against the backdrop of a climate crisis, a pandemic, growing inequality and increasingly inhuman asylum policy, when we really have no time to waste. We heard Mr Hoekstra say several times after the elections that the CDA fits modesty and that the outgoing Prime Minister was also modest after the motions of censure and mistrust. The content would be leading. Now, a few weeks of water, I see little of both modesty and concrete content. Certainly, in the report of the informant, I see important, major themes passing through. You would think that the contours of a coalition agreement would be clear. Digitisation is under way to manage the emergence of artificial intelligence. European cooperation is important, and that is good. I look forward to the plans for the recovery fund, which is also mentioned several times. Opportunities must be combated, our education improved and the energy transition set in motion. Beautiful as well, but there are still few concrete plans in between. For the coming period, Volt hopes that a more humane approach to refugees here and elsewhere in Europe will also be a priority. We read about illegal pushbacks, about walls with trumpian allure and about asylum seekers who have to wait years in our centres until their procedure is even started. Madam President, through you, I would like to ask Mrs Hamer whether this issue has caused a great deal of division between the parties in the discussions so far. Was it an important theme for these parties? The report hardly mentions it yet. Mr. Chairman. It seems that old Hague rivalries also stand in the way of cooperation. It's not about the content, it's about the old game of power. Four out of six parties are already in one cabinet. The VVD and D66 are also in the same European group. What, other than the question of power, prevents the last crucial steps from being taken here? I'll ask the informant. Mr. Chairman. In the past period, confidence in politics has suffered a significant dent. We're not restoring that trust this way. To forget rivalry, it sometimes helps to pursue a goal that is greater than self-interest. We have a responsibility to give hope to voters instead of cynicism. It is very necessary to prepare both the Netherlands and Europe for a rapidly changing world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u205	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u206	Mr President, thank you. The SCP, the CPB, the SME Netherlands, PBL, the Foundation of Labor, the VNG, the IPO, the young people, representatives from art and culture, the SER, the National Ombudsman, the SCP, Arcadis, de Koepel Pensioners, the KBO-PCOB, the ANBO, NOOM, the National Clients Council, the Council of Elders, Alzheimer Netherlands, the Patient Federation, the Dutch School of Public Administration, Dutch digital delta, NLdigital, TU Delft, Foundation Digital Infrastructure Netherlands, Waag Technology, the FME, foundation Nature & Environment, the Netherlands Association for Sustainable Energy, Natural Monuments, MVO Netherlands, Deltares, Environment Centraal en Urgenda. Then we're here. Mrs. Hamer is looking at me very angry right now. No? Oh, thank God, that's a natural expression, fine. It is the 37-party procession and institutions that could visit the informant, who went on coffee with Mrs. Hamer and her predecessor. We've been 98 days, and actually we haven't gotten a millimeter. Why not? Because it wasn't about the core question: do we have faith and in whom? Has there been any work on mutual trust? Who has the guts to stick their necks out for the Netherlands? It's a bit cynical, but two months after the House of Representatives gave the order to find out who wants to go with whom, it's still completely unclear who wants to go with who. It's Rutte and Kaag, lonely but together on formation island. I thought there was once another cabin available for JA21, but we too were driven off the island. It's still unclear why exactly. In my opinion, it should have been much more about restoring confidence in each other in recent months. Rather than having such an unelected lobby circuit, such a circus pop up and draw up recovery plans. It should have been about culture, about how we deal with each other here and about the culture that we hold, especially after the 'function elsewhere' gate and the motion of censure adopted, I repeat it to Mr Rutte. I think that we all got over that a little too easily, and so did you, Mrs Hamer. The final report indicates the content of a new cabinet. Then we see an inclusive society, the Urgendavonnis, a sustainable economy, digitisation and innovation, more globalisation and internationalisation. In short, the lobbyracy has done its job well. But is that a good translation of the election results, with the right getting stronger and the left getting smaller? Then I have to say something, and that's what I want to say. Look at that 37-party procession that comes along, that goes on the coffee with all due respect, and at the same time see the ease with which 25 seats on that side, those of the PVV and FVD are simply ignored. They're just locked out; they don't talk about it. They're just being pushed aside. Whether you agree is verse two, but no attempt is even made. Is that the new culture? Is that the new politics? I think you're building bridges to your opponents, not your friends. How do you see that, Mrs. Hamer? For JA21, President, we are very excited about this house over the next few years. We will not be the side table of D66 and the VVD and we will not sign in, so you will probably see us back in the opposition after the summer holidays. Or at the ballot box, because I think it might be a long hot autumn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u207	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u208	Madam President. Long, a long time ago, at the 1956 election formation, things didn't work out very well. The story goes that then Queen Juliana was somewhat concerned about the progress and that Willem Drees would then have spoken the reassuring words: "Oh Majesty, you know, eventually there will always be a cabinet." Perhaps that can offer some comfort, even to those who are now wondering whether there will ever be a cabinet. Because it's true, the quick cutting of buttons about who's with, isn't in it now either. The informant took the word "impase" in her mouth a few times yesterday. Sure, there has been a lot of discussion about the content. I would also like to thank the informant for the great commitment. It also produces substantive documents which, on the one hand, focus on the outgoing cabinet, and, on the other hand, what should and can be done now? On the other hand, they provide building blocks for a future cabinet and also give homework to the Chamber. I refer to the agenda on the restoration and strengthening of the rule of law. I don't want to be stingy about all these acting pieces. It can also certainly have its advantages if other parties than those who end up sitting at the formation table can contribute in this way and not everything disappears in the funnel of coalition parties. As an example, I would like to mention the future of the rural area, the strengthening of security and defence, which the SGP has also requested. For example, there are more subjects that we hope will receive the attention they deserve through this way. But no matter how valuable, all the substantive discussions about this have not led to the fact that it has sparked off between the parties who were talking to each other that we now know which parties are going to form. In the end, much has been said, but not chosen. Also, the global indication of subjects does not always indicate the direction. Just take this sentence: "At different times in life, medical-ethical issues can emerge, from the unborn child to people who actively want to end their lives." That is very true and very important, but which way it goes is in no way to be taken into account. What to do in the event of an impasse in the cabinet formation? The informant actually resorts to an emergency grip that has in a way been tried before. In the cabinet formation of 1994, when the cart got stuck, the leader of the largest party was asked to carry out the task of writing a substantive programme and then to see who could eventually participate. The exciting question remains: if the conversations didn't spark over, will a new scripture do? Shouldn't we just be chosen? And what exactly is the accompanying role of the informant? I would also like to ask her whether, as in 1994, it has been considered that those who are going to write the piece, namely Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag, should be appointed as informers, so that responsibility is invested with them and that after a few weeks she can ask: "Are you out? Then we can see if we can move on." Madam President. The information has reached an impasse, but the country has not stopped. That is also the good news, looking at the economic developments and the prospects that are also emerging. That still raises the question of the financial framework for the coming years, because I did not read much about it in the documents. In my opinion, it is also very important to know which financial frameworks are being chosen because they need to be chosen. Finally, therefore, would it not be wise for the President-in-Office of the Council, if these financial frameworks were to be taken into account in that document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u209	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK. Mr Baudet is here, but he is coming after Mr Van Haga. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mrs Hammer for the work she has done. Mr. Chairman. 100 days ago, the Netherlands went to the ballot box, in the midst of a crisis, a major crisis. The voters gave us their voice and the Netherlands hoped that we would focus directly on the major challenges: the economic recovery, the climate crisis, the opportunity crisis in education, the inequality in society and the crumbling of the rule of law. Where are we 100 days later? 190 pages as a report of 100 days of information, full of detailed content..... if that is a harbinger of a thin coalition agreement, I fear the worst......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. There would be a new governance culture, more openness, a serviceable government and the people central. I just heard Mr Rutte say: the VVD stands for the protection of citizens and defends the rule of law. You would almost forget that under his leadership tens of thousands of parents and 70,000 children have been wronged in no way. Those lives were destroyed under Rutte's leadership, people attempted suicide and his people even fled the beautiful Netherlands because they were afraid and feared. Mr. Chairman. On 1 April we had the debate on "position Omtzigt, position elsewhere" with a Prime Minister who lied for the umpteenth time. Or as my colleague Kaag can say lovingly: "Rutte has a pattern of forgetfulness." Then Mrs Kaag took control. She said to Rutte, "This is where we part ways." Now I learned Dutch when I was nine and I didn't understand that right away. It didn't mean "here separate our ways," but "here we look at the world differently." And in Kaag's eyes, that means we're gonna work together, and I'm gonna make you prime minister of this country, Mark. And what were the promises? A new governance culture. A quick formation. A cabinet with a substantial progressive input. Farewell to The Hague's back room politics. After 100 days we are nowhere: no sight on formation, no new governance culture, no progressive input, and we go back to the back rooms. And after D66 Minister Ollongren leaked out of the reconnaissance documents, the formation has entered a downward spiral. And I fully understand that citizens are watching this theatre and are wondering whether the politicians are playing together in the schoolyard or whether they are taking responsibility for bringing the Netherlands forward. But Sigrid wants to go with Mark, and Mark with Sigrid. Jesse and Lilianne would love to hang out with Sigrid and Mark. Wopke wants to be with Sigrid and Mark, but he doesn't want to be with Jesse and Lilianne - at least if they get together. And Mark would rather not go with Jesse, especially with Lilianne. And Mark wants to go on, but to hold Wopke well, he doesn't want to go with Lilianne and Jesse. And boyfriend Segers, well, he wants to, then not, then again, que sí, que no... Well, well, he has said no, but it is possible again, if the national interest calls him. The formation has reached an impasse. Hamer's approach to bringing parties together along the way of content has simply failed. And a flight path along the contents makes little sense if there is no trust. Because we would almost forget that we also have a crisis of confidence: confidence in this Prime Minister. And the love between Rutte and Kaag is not loving, passionate romance. They are certainly not lovebirds; they sometimes make each other out for opportunist, call each other "hautain," and it is clear that the sparks do not jump off. Mr President, I will conclude. During the Corona debate, Rutte once talked about the hammer and the dance. In the meantime we also have a Hammer at the formation, and there is plenty of dancing by the parties, but without result. So what's the solution now? We're going to have Kaag and Rutte dance for the next few months, and we hope the others find the spectacle so attractive that they want to join. I realize that based on the soil dry content, the formation may take a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u211	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by thanking Mrs Hammer for her commitment and all her work. We don't have a new cabinet yet, but a lot of work has been done. And not only by you, but also by all colleagues, and let us not forget the officials who support the whole process. We are talking today about the report of the informant, or at least we are trying to do so, but I would also like to say something about the process. As far as I am concerned, that process was very pleasant and it was mainly about its content. And I'm very happy about that. Of course, the question is who wants and can form a cabinet with whom, but the substantive process that has gone through makes it possible for VVD and D66 to start a test of a government agreement that can find substance. When I look at the report, I am broadly satisfied with what lies ahead. At least there are a lot of things that are important for the Netherlands: an inclusive society, health, living, education, climate, digitisation and innovation, and of course the sustainable economy. But I'm missing one very important theme, and you probably feel it coming already, because everyone in the Netherlands can really get older. We really need to get to work on that. A theme that offers a lot of opportunities, but also presents a lot of challenges, because half of all adults in the Netherlands are 50 years of age or older, and that goes very hard to a higher number. If we do not develop a vision of getting old, and do not work actively with the insights that exist with regard to demographic developments, we cannot actually make a realistic policy for the future. Then we will continue to muddle four years ahead of each government term. Therefore, through the chairman, I would like to appeal to colleagues Rutte and Kaag to pay attention to this when writing. And I would like to know from Mrs Hamer why she did not include this as an integrally important issue in her report. Ageing is not a threat, but a chance for more well-being and prosperity. But then we're gonna have to do things differently. Then we should start looking beyond the political scope of four years. Generation policy must be reviewed over the next 10 to 30 years, at least. Let's see. In ten years, we'll have about 7.5 million people over 50. In twenty years, nearly 5 million people over 65 will live in the Netherlands. These are all people with dreams, dreams for themselves, dreams for their children, for their grandchildren, but they are also people with worries, caring about their place of residence for later, their old age provision, available care, safe and liveable neighborhoods. These are things that, when you're younger, you don't have to worry about, but we have to worry about them as politicians and we have to anticipate them. Due to demographic developments, we face challenges that are obvious. There is no flow into the housing market. We need to increase labour productivity. The sustainability of our old age provision is under pressure. Neighborhoods are ageing. The accessibility and affordability of our care are not self-evident. The labour market deficit in some sectors, such as care, really gives rise to a longer-term scare. Actually, this isn't news. We all know this. It's almost daily in the media. But we're not gonna be able to talk. We need to work on generation policy, not fragmented but across different policy areas, because that is the only way it works. That is why I am calling for generation policy to be included in the government agreement as an integral part of the seven themes mentioned. As the proverb says, rule is vision. Good policy is not only limited to the present or the near future, but also extends to the time that lies further away. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u213	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u214	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens of the Netherlands. We used to have a big sandbox in my elementary school. Getting in there and playing with the other kids wasn't always easy. There were little boys in there with a big mouth and there were catty girls in there. If you wanted to make a castle in the sandbox, you could just be chased out. For almost 100 days, I've been thinking back to this on a regular basis. Who's with who? And most importantly, who isn't with who? A number of parties were already excluded from playing in the sandbox prior to the election by the establishment. Excluded in advance, by parties that have the mouths of an inclusive society. "We don't exclude anyone," was called in the campaign. Well, "we" do rule out people. We even rule out people in advance. We exclude 1.6 million voters in advance, because that was the number of votes achieved by the Forum for Democracy and the PVV. Together, 100,000 voters more than all of D66 put together. Those voters are now being pushed out of the sandbox. I am not so much concerned with excluding parties as with completely ignoring 1.6 million voters in advance. I think that's a goddess. Of course, you don't necessarily have to form a cabinet with these parties, but you can at least see if you can get together somewhere. Can't do that, okay? No is also an answer. But then you did justice to the voters. Right to their voice. Right to their worries. I cannot ignore the fact that it is not the mores in The Hague that you at least give each other a chance and the voters in the Netherlands show that inclusive society is not just campaign talk. Thinking about the sandbox, I also think about my aunt Wilma, where I can stay very often during debate days in The Hague. She used to be a school teacher and she also made that exact comparison with the sandbox. When she saw that children were excluded in the sandbox, she intervened. Who is in this Chamber the Aunt Wilma of the Netherlands? Who intervenes and brings parties together? Now, of course, I don't have to stand up for voters from other parties, but I do. I do that because it hurts my democratic heart that the people who have to run our country are already starting to rule out. That's what I wanted to say. Mr. Chairman. I'm completely embarrassed to be part of this charade that was here this morning. Blame, swear, insult each other: what is this? Our country has been waiting for a new cabinet since mid-January, for a new government. New steps should be taken today. Ten hours has been allocated to this debate. The first two hours were mainly about "yes, but you this" and "yes, but you that." Anyway, as I said, I am very ashamed of what happened here this morning and I want to apologize to the people of the Netherlands on behalf of BBB for the way in which we deal with each other here, without respect, over and over again. Mr. Chairman. We are sitting here, as the outgoing Prime Minister, now in the role of party leader of the VVD, said last night during the debate on the Euro Summit: we are going to talk for a very long time about something where there is no progress. To achieve progress, my proposal is to form a minority cabinet and govern with it. A minority cabinet is closer together, has to negotiate with the entire Chamber, which leads to more democratic relations and which is therefore excellent for dualism. A minority cabinet also does justice to all voters. Don't be a pain in the ass. Go for that minority cabinet and give the Netherlands what it has the right to, a governable country where eyes and ears are for everyone. I would also like to suggest that we do it as is happening in Israel: set a deadline for formation. If the deadline is not met, new elections will have to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u215	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u216	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u217	I have an actual addition to what Mrs Van der Plas said at the end. It is true that there is initially an electoral threshold in Israel. Secondly, there is a time limit and this is a next party that can form a government. For example, not Likud, but Mr Lapid's party, formed the government and became Prime Minister of a small party. So it's a little more complex than suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u218	Okay. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In The Hague we are already three months further. This missionary Kabninet is not only outgoing because there have been elections, no, they also resigned in January because they had made such big and culpable mistakes in the supplementing affair that they could no longer go through. In business, you have to pack your things, turn in your keys and leave the building, but in this parallel world, everyone just sits where they are, like nothing's wrong. Mr. Chairman. We do wonder what interest is served by these political games. In any case, the interest of the Netherlands is not first. Personal interests, political opportunism and exclusion seem to prevail and that is extremely bad for the Netherlands. The electorate has expressed a clear preference for a right-wing cabinet. But because both the VVD and D66 have stated that they exclude the PVV and Forum for Democracy, there is little chance of a coalition doing justice to that election result. I wonder if the informant agrees with me. Moreover, the PVV, FVD, JA21, BBB, the SGP and my own party together have 32 seats. And together with the VVD, which has 34 seats, and the CDA with 15 seats, there are 81 right-wing seats in this parliament. The Dutch have therefore opted by a large majority for a right-wing policy, for a good economy, for security, for less immigration and for common sense. I read in the report a number of great ambitions of the informer, namely equality of opportunity, sustainability and digitisation. How the hell is this consistent with the election results? I think that's contrary to what those 81 seats want. Two thirds of voters believe that parties should put aside their own problems and form a cabinet as soon as possible. And we agree with that. As far as we are concerned, this is a minority cabinet in which the 81 seats mentioned can serve the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u221	Thank you for your flexibility. I did have to leave the Chamber at the very moment I was supposed to speak for private reasons, but I am glad that we could do so. Mr. Chairman. Famous is Noam Chomsky's statement that the easiest way to keep people sweet is to set very strict, very narrow margins of what is acceptable in advance and then to organise a very busy and lively debate at minuscule detail points. Big questions, big issues, you explain them out of order in advance. You call them "extremely" or "radical" or "unattainable" or "competence with international conventions" or whatever other umbrella concept you make up for it. Then you're going to do extreme pressure about percentage points, dolls, about Jantje not with Pietje, Klaasje does with Basje and you're going to catch flies, puzzles, keep Catshuis over and so on. The hope then is that people will be carried away by all these superficial and absurd details and by all this messing and shit, that they will find it normal, over time, that the margins of the debate have already been fixed so narrowly at an earlier stage and that they will finally go even further in the direction they want, without any further major questions being asked. That is exactly what is happening in the Netherlands. First of all, the debate has been framed with hermetic walls. On all major issues, ideological opposition has been declared out of order: from corona, mouthcap duty, lockdowns and semi-mandatory vaccinations to immigration, Islamisation and open borders; from climate policy to peasant bullying to the placement of windmills and modern architecture; from the maintenance of the euro coin and the unlimited repressing of money to the continuation of the European unification project and the expansion of Brussels power; from the vision of Russia and Turkey to the vision of China and regime change in the Middle East. There is simply agreement on all major issues here! VVD, CDA, Labour Party, D66, GroenLinks and ChristenUnion: they all share the same conviction on these major ideological issues. So they're actually part of the same party. Of course you have different wings and flanks in there, different accents and different personalities and characters. One wants to go faster than the other. You know, there's a lot of fitness or stuff that makes people collide with each other. Furthermore, I really do not know what great ideological differences the formation could stumble upon. That makes this whole spectacle, this whole formation game, of the past few weeks and months one big theatre. Rutte says he's having trouble with Kaag. Kaag says she's holding her leg up. Hoekstra says he wants to resource. Ploumen and Klaver argue that they want to stand up for whatever it is that they have made up a word or a name for. In the meantime, there is no time pressure either. They simply govern in about the same composition as they will rule after this formation, just as they ruled in about the same composition before the previous elections, with about the same policy and probably after the next elections. "La plus belle des rushes du diable est de vous persuader qu'il n'existe pas," said Baudelaire: it's the devil's greatest trick to make us believe he doesn't exist. That's the way it is with the cartel. All this nonsense of bickering is intended to conceal the fact that you are a cartel. You're a cartel! You play that there are differences of opinion to bind different groups of voters to you. Then you guys just go back together. So the outcome of this whole circus is already established in advance. The policy we're about to get has been established for a long time. Well, if only the people understood this, too. If only the media would show this. I wish I could see how this is ever gonna change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the sitting until 2:30 p.m., including lunch break. Then we'll go on to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u223	I give the floor to the informant, Mrs Hamer, to give the Chamber information. A number of questions have been asked to the informant. There is also some room for factual questions. I give the floor to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking those who have addressed me with kind words. I would like to say a few words about the task you have given me, otherwise there may be a misunderstanding as to how the path of the past period has been achieved. I heard a few times: the contents of Hammer. But it was the contents of the Chamber on the basis of a motion that you adopted with 102 Members, I have just checked it out two thirds of the Chamber. So you asked me to set it up that way. As you know, I have been a Member of Parliament myself in a previous life. I've always had the adage that when there's a motion from the Chamber, you have to take it very seriously. So you have to be serious about that, too. Since it was such a special motion, I've tried to do it quite meticulously. Let's get this over with. So it was also your wish, I say, to do this: this content. I will say something very briefly about the various parts, but you have asked me to do so on the basis of knowledge available, as stated in the motion, but also with the involvement of third parties. That was also the case at your request. I can imagine that all kinds of comments will be made on this, but I can at least tell you that the motions as they were in the Chamber to involve young people and later the elderly, which was at Mrs Den Haan's request, were in any case greatly appreciated by them. I'd like to convey that appreciation to you. That's the part about that part. Of course, I have also begun to involve your Chamber in the drafting of the motion, especially the substantive part, because it was quite complex. I've been asked a lot of different things. I was asked to draw up short-term and long-term recovery and transition policies, I was asked to draw up an agenda for the democratic rule of law, and I was also asked to identify the other issues of interest in the establishment of a government agreement and also to provide an analysis. I believe that in the context of what you have discussed with Mr Herman Tjeenk Willink and what was behind the motion, I should like to do as follows. That was also in the first talks with your group chairmen......................................................................................................................................................................................................... I felt that this should be done as follows: by starting with the formulation of common goals and ambitions, and by going back from there to concrete measures. In the course of this process, we have developed this further with the parties who had expressed the wish to do so. I understand it's become a very thick package. That's because you also asked for all the attachments. But if you consider the notes separately, you will see that they have all become notes that separately contain no more than eight pages. So that seems to me, to be honest, to be acceptable notes again. And that's what finally became three about the content. First of all, I would like to mention the policy of transition and the other major issues. In the end, I took it together in connection with the conversations with you. They have indeed been drawn up, also in connection with the discussions I had with all the group chairmen, in such a way that we have written down the problem analysis, the task and the purpose. To be honest, that seems a little more than cups. We then looked at what points should be worked out in a coalition agreement. That's what's in there now. This is something that informers can take advantage of. But I would also like to say to your Chamber that you too can take advantage of that. And perhaps you could have done that today by holding a debate on it. But, of course, that's up to you. The second part deals with short-term recovery and post-care policies. There, of course, we have seen something happen, because during the process something very nice happened: the economy has started to recover. As a result, recovery and transition policies have become more focused on aftercare, on those groups that have suffered a lot from the crisis, but also on things that have remained behind during the crisis. So we have also made this a more short-term note in consultation with you, which can actually be used directly. Then I would just like to say that the short-term post-care policy is about children in poverty, for example. This concerns, for example, the mental well-being of young people, but also of the elderly. This is about vulnerable people, but that is of course also about all those companies and businesses that are not yet out of the woods. This is also about the late maintenance that has occurred in municipalities, because they have had to put their priority in the corona crisis. You can read all that. In any case, what I would like to give you now is that this can of course be included in the 2022 budget, so that we can work on it quickly. But I have also noticed that there is still a lot of money on the table, and I would just like to say that it is unparliamentary that can actually be used from tomorrow when your Chamber starts working on it. So I would also like to recommend to the Chamber those notes. Finally, in the discussions with the group chairmen and, of course, the externals, we have looked at a number of complex urgent challenges. I gave you a third note of that. That is not so long, but it is with six points of which I would recommend that you do not forget. In my view, these are points that can be taken up by your Chamber in any way. I mentioned the implementation of the nitrogen condemnation, as well as the implementation of Urgenda and the Climate Act, the short-term build-up impulse, the enhancement of viability in sustainable cities, neighbourhoods and villages, and the continued approach to the pandemic. As we read in the newspapers today, it is still necessary to pay attention to this. And, of course, the simplification or abolition of the payment system. That didn't go unseen, I'm just saying. The Chamber can play its part in that. Finally, last but not least, at the end of my substantive tasks, I gave you an agenda to strengthen the democratic rule of law. You have indicated with your Chamber that it is important, and I think it is quite possible to pick up that agenda. I think it was a question from Mr Hoekstra how this could be done. I have proposed that a working group be set up to monitor and work out what the Chamber should do, but also what others should do, and then have the presidency guide it exactly how to do it. I can't quite see what your estimate was already going on or that fits in with the work done by the Van der Staaij working group. I think that's up to you, and you've all made that document, and I wrote it down for you. But don't leave that, would actually be my only call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u225	I'll see if you're at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u226	Yeah, well, the content part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u227	Maybe it's okay if the informant answers the questions first. Then we'll see at the end what questions there are left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u228	That's good. I have, of course, also had to answer a political question, and for that I would refer to the final report. I have written down as precisely as possible what has happened and it seems to me that it will only cause more confusion if I summarise it now. You can follow all this very precisely in that report. Then I had a few more questions. I have just answered Mr Hoekstra. Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Haga asked me how it came to the final six parties, I say just for convenience. I also wrote that quite precisely in the final report. I would therefore like to refer to that. Then there is Mrs Marijnissen's question about what I said at the press conference. Thank you for the question, because then I can explain it. I did not say in any way that the discussion about the premium affair is over. In fact, I have just indicated to you that I still want to bring it to your attention as an urgent matter. I was asked whether Mr Rutte's position was discussed at the tables. I have said that it seems to me to have been more about relations between the parties and not so much about Mr Rutte. I can say that about those talks, but that has no relationship for me to say anything about the urgency of the supplementing affair. Finally, Mr Dassen asked a question about European policy on migration and refugees. You can see in the documents accompanying my report that this subject is included, particularly under the heading of international affairs and general principles. That is how it has been discussed in the discussions: not in more detail than I have written down. Then Mr Van der Staaij asked me about the role of Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag in the follow-up mission. You're in charge of that assignment, so I'm just gonna take it up with my advice. I indicated in that statement that I think it is important to lay down the responsibility for drawing up the document on the main lines and for joining the parties to it with Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag. However, I am prepared to accompany that process. That's how I see it. Whether or not there is a financial framework, I really find something about both group chairmen. Finally, the last question, Mr President. That is Mrs Den Haan's question why the elderly are not an integral part. I thought that in many parts of the various notes the position of older people has emerged, in the housing market, in the health and labour market component. This also applies to young people, I would add, so that there can be no discussion about it. Concrete examples have also been mentioned, such as the mental well-being of older people, lifelong learning, informal care and the composition of housing stocks which must be adapted to demographic developments. Finally, I have included a general comment in the document on the democratic rule of law, in which I have stated that parties have indicated the importance of looking at generations in the future as well. I think it is quite integral, but of course it is up to you to give this to Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag. I believe that I have passed through all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u229	Thank you. There is still a need to ask a number of factual questions. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Hoekstra, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Azarkan and Mr Eerdmans. First of all, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u230	Thank you, Mr President. I realize I forgot to thank the informant for her work. Although the Animal Party had not supported the motion for this step in the formation process, it simply took up its task, as the majority of the Chamber asked it. Thank you for your commitment. My question concerns the identification of the major issues to be addressed, such as the climate crisis and the nitrogen crisis. I wonder if there has been any reflection in the process. The Urgendavonnis should of course have been carried out by the incumbent, outgoing, cabinet. For nitrogen the same story. A law has been presented and, in principle, it should be resolved. None of that's going on. The next steps, in which Rutte and Kaag start writing a piece and then negotiate again, seem rather pointless if no reflection has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u231	Your question is whether there has been a reflection on these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u232	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u233	Mrs. Hammer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u234	I think so. As you can see, the themes have been identified in the document on the seven ambitions. You'll see parts coming back in. You will also see it appointed on the urgent issues that I recommend to you. That reflection certainly took place. It seems logical to me, but in the end that is also up to the Chamber. Let me just say it again, otherwise I will have a political debate with you. I would find that extremely interesting, but that is not my role as an informant. I must therefore refer to Mrs Kaag and Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u235	Do you have another factual question, Mrs Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u236	I understand. I'm trying to figure it out through the informant. It would have decorated the others just to say it, but I'm asking the informant because she was in those conversations. The fact that there is a crisis is not yet reflection. I wonder if a reflection has taken place: what have we done fundamentally wrong? Do we recognize that there is a crisis now? I wonder if that reflection has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u237	The informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u238	I always think: in the fact that you want to solve it, there's some kind of reflection that it hasn't worked out yet and that it still needs to be picked up. I'm just gonna say it diplomatically. You may see that it is in the urgent matters that has been discussed with the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u239	Mr. Hoekstra, CDA, for his actual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u240	I would like to thank Mrs Hamer for her answer on the issue of the democratic rule of law. My suggestion is that I make the suggestion to the Van der Staaij committee, through the Minutes and through you, to take Mrs Hammer's comment and the document. If I have understood Mrs Hammer correctly, that is actually the most elegant route to implement this part of her report. That's the suggestion I wanted to make this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u241	Thank you. That's noted. The Van der Staaij committee has yet to be installed. So it doesn't have a formal status yet. We're gonna do that, because there's support for that. The Bureau, the Executive Board of the Chamber, has also agreed to this. Mrs Marijnissen, SP, for her actual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u242	Thank you to Mrs Hammer, certainly for your work, but also for answering the questions I have asked. I did ask about the ebbing, because you mentioned it in the press conference. You have clarified it, or whatever it is called here in the Chamber today. As far as I'm concerned, it's called "cleared out." You've cleared that up. I think it is important to highlight this, because it is quite something that has happened here: the actual political situation in which the complete opposition renounces confidence in the current outgoing Prime Minister and the current leader of the VVD. If you say that this discussion has been experienced by you as "eliminate," I think I'll explain it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u243	I'm just gonna get it out of my head. It was a question at a press conference where many questions were asked. I don't have the exact words at hand. It is a question of whether there has been much discussion about Mr Rutte's position. I said: no, the discussion between the parties was about their views and about who would join with whom. That's how I've experienced it, but it could be because of me. I have, of course, spoken to a number of parties at the end. I can imagine that if you speak to eighteen parties... about that discussion you will. I've experienced it so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u244	I think it's very valuable to be able to take note of your observation of that. The parliamentary debates we have had here have been very different. I think it's good to know what your experience of the conversation about it was the moment the door closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u245	And your actual question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u246	I have another question about the supplemental scandal. You are referring to the fact that this has certainly been the case. Happy, I'd like to say. Of course, an entire cabinet has fallen over that for a reason. My question to you is that you, with important large parties, have probably thoroughly analysed what was at the heart of that scandal. How would you explain that? As far as you are concerned, what is at the heart of that surcharge scandal, in your analysis and on the basis of all the conversations you have had with the various parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u247	Oh, now I have to be careful. This is a question to an informant. I don't know if I should and can answer it that way. In any case, I think it is important to inform your Chamber that there is still a great deal of work to be done in the complexity of the implementation. That is at least one of the reasons. You will also find this in the document on the democratic rule of law. I have noticed that, by the way. I also spoke to implementing organisations at your request. As a chamber, I believe you have had a committee for that, if I may say so, under the leadership of Mr Bosman. I have written in that agenda that I strongly recommend to you to discuss that report here in the Chamber. In any case, I have observed that there is a relationship with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u248	Thank you. Another actual follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u249	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, This was a bit of our concern: that, as far as we are concerned, it is too easily dismissed as "complexity in execution." You indicate that you have also spoken to implementing organisations. I think that's very good. You've spoken to a lot of people, right up to the director of the Efteling. He's been visiting. But you didn't talk to the victims of the supplement scandal, for example, with the affected parents. While that scandal has not only caused the cabinet to fall, it has also shaken our whole rule of law. What did you consider it to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u250	My consideration has been that you have asked to talk to parties in the context of recovery and aftercare policies. I can assure you that I have even had to disappoint organisations that are very dear to me in everyday life because, of course, everyone wants to come by. But I have looked carefully and done exactly what you asked me to do in the motion. It was about the recovery and aftercare policy. It became clear to me in the discussion that, if you are going to pursue recovery and aftercare policies, it is very important that steps are taken in their implementation. That is why the invitation policy has been as it has been. There is no other order in that for me, except that I have carried out your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u251	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u252	Finally, Mr President. That is what I say to Mrs Hammer, who fully realizes that she is, of course, only a procedural counsellor between quotes. However, I would like to say here in the Chamber that the mandate is certainly... we did not support that motion, by the way, but the majority of the Chamber did. So you were right to do so. And yes, that motion was about recovery policy, but then it is a lot about corona and the economy. If you see what injustice has been done to those people, but also to our rule of law, then I would have hoped and actually expected to read back more in the report on recovery policy for our rule of law, on correcting the surcharge scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u253	I would like to point out that, in my view, I have spoken with all your group chairmen in this Chamber about the agenda for the democratic rule of law. There is, in my view, a rather complete agenda, which is also part of it, and I can only recommend that you take it up. That's up to your room. I have re-appointed it as an urgent matter. That's up to your room, too. That's what I can do from my role as an informant, based on your input, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u254	Thank you. Mr Azarkan for his factual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u255	Can Mrs Hamer state as specifically as possible what is still missing, so that a majority of the parties do not come together, and how does that relate to the opinion to say to Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag: go ahead and write and I will coach you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u256	Well, "coaching" isn't the right word. Then you do me far too much credit. I can guide the process. Look, what I have noticed is that once again, you can really read it back; I think I have written it very precisely that there are six parties willing to join each other in a cabinet. Only the combination of this has led to an impasse, as I said last Friday. That impasse is over for me, because we have finally found with those six parties that the only way to do so is to say that the two largest parties, the winners of the elections, are now going to write together and that it will be their responsibility to join the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u257	This means that the blockades are based on further action on the issues on which there is agreement. That's where the blockade is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u258	It's hard to say. The blockades are now on the compound. But since we have not come up with any real exploration on the content of this document, you cannot do that as an informant without parties. Then you have a document on the main lines and then you can see more precisely where the differences are, I think. That's why I advised you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u259	But that's a risky operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u260	And your actual question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u261	Well, actual question... Mr President, we are at an important crossroads here. After a hundred days, we can't see a cabinet that has a majority. An opinion is given by the informant who has been instructed to do so. It is therefore important that we look together to see whether the road that is being used can lead to a successful outcome to some extent. I have expressed doubts about this in my contribution because I do not think that the problem is there. I do realize that time heals all wounds. That's what we saw with Rutte a few months ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u262	But your question to the informant is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u263	My question to the informant is that the advice given must therefore lead to some degree... Again, that's something other than time-saving. I understand. Then I can look at that, too. So it's really in the elaboration of a number of themes, so maybe parties will say to each other "yes, now they do"? Because that must be the expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u264	Let me put it this way: I have not been able to find out where the major differences are based on the content. What you would simply normally do with parties is that you're going to talk to each other deeply about that. We didn't get that far. That's what we're finding out. Then you have to look at a way you can come up with that. I have also indicated to you that on the basis of what I have now been able to explore as an informant, in small compositions, I have good hope that there will be a solution to that content. That is also a new way, in which we have, of course, tried this time to do so on the basis of the content. That was your wish. I still have good hope that if you're really looking for the floor right now, parties can come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u265	Mr Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u266	And if I didn't, I would have... Can I add one more sentence to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u267	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u268	If I didn't believe in the advice that this could happen... I can't give a guarantee, but anyone who knows me a little knows that I'm not gonna give advice that I don't believe in myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u269	I myself had asked Mrs Hammer how it could be that on the one hand she receives all 37 of the clubs I mentioned here, while 25 seats on the right are simply blocked from a conversation. That is the harrowing feeling, at least with me, when you look at our democratic values. So they're not even gonna have a conversation. They're not even invited, but that's basically being sabotaged. They're being pushed aside. I find that very undemocratic. I wasn't the only one; others spoke out about it. How does Mrs Hammer see that in the light of progress, so that we in the Netherlands are still able to boycott 1.6 million voters? Even for the record, those are not my constituents, perhaps in the future, because we are independent of them. But it is a lot of voters, so they are simply totally ignored. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u270	I find it annoying to do so, but I must always remind you of the role that I have as an informant, as a counsellor of a situation which, incidentally, arose after a reconnaissance by Mr Herman Tjeenk Willink. He has spoken with all the parties and has already gone off the list of who excludes who and so on. For the sake of completeness, I have had those same conversations again. We had that conversation together, too. So I didn't just go for a report. Then I have to find out where majorities lie to talk to each other further. As an informant, I do not think it is appropriate to give a further opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u271	Well, yet, how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u272	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u273	Yes, I do. I feel very uncomfortable about this. It shows a lot of people in the Netherlands who are watching, following this debate and seeing the outcome, the feeling of survival: "Aha, there is still no talk with a certain group. And why? Because others say we don't." You're a trial counselor, aren't you? Then let me ask you this. Did you attempt to at least make sure that door opens?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u274	What I have done is to try to talk to you every eighteen people and to see if what Mr Herman Tjeenk Willink's conclusions were still in line with the moment I started. I also spoke with all the parties on the substantive part of the motion so that you could make your contribution. For the continuation of the process, an informant ultimately depends on the views of the parties. The mission was to achieve a majority coalition with each other. Then you should look at "together." I can find all kinds of things as a person, but it doesn't suit me as an informant to give you an opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u275	Mrs Van der Plas van BBB, again for a factual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u276	My question is: how long does Mrs Hammer think it's gonna take or normal to form any longer? And when is the point reached that is said: now we stop, now we are going to write new elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u277	Quite simply, that point is reached when a majority of the Chamber finds that that point has been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u279	Then I'd like to thank the informant for providing the information. I can imagine that sometimes it's quite difficult, looking at the questions, but I think she answered the questions as well as possible. I'm just gonna take a quick look at the members. To be honest, it is common practice not to have a second deadline, not even because the motion has already been tabled in the first term. But I'm still checking to see if there's any need for a second term. At least that is the case with Mr Wilders. Not with the other members, I see. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Some consistency is not strange to me, but I think we are only getting out of this by disbanding the Chamber and issuing elections, because this is absolutely not going to be it. Hence one motion, and I'll be ready as soon as I can. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to dissolve the Chamber and to hold new elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u281	I would like to have a formal opinion of the cabinet before the vote in box K, or else in writing. So I don't mean through the place of cabinet members here, but through the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u282	We'll redirect this section to the cabinet. Then I will also give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas? No? No. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u283	I would like to thank our informant, Mrs Hamer, for providing the information. I would like to thank the MPs and the people in the public gallery. I'm suspending the sitting, I think for half an hour, but there's also got to be a response to a motion. We shall then proceed to a brief settlement of the work and then we shall also vote on the motions tabled, including those relating to the European summit. I'm suspending the meeting for at least half an hour.
