ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u1	I ask the Members to take their place again. The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care, as well as the members of the Chamber and the viewers at home. We have 18 speakers today. I would like to agree with you on four questions or observations in the first term, Chamber, and then six questions or observations from the Chamber in the direction of the directors. If it's short and concise, everyone comes to their senses. That will be brief and concise in the future also applies to the rulers. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD for her first term. Everyone's got four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, the summer has broken through, not only literally but figuratively. The sun is shining and we have some more room to enjoy it. It's like a drink like that on the terrace now tastes extra tasty. Mr. Chairman. We said it if we didn't think it was going well or fast enough, so I'd like to do it if it did. It is very good to see that the cabinet is so flexible to respond to the rapid improvement of the figures we see now, that we are not sticking to a schedule of relaxation dates but doing what can be done and take two steps at the end of June or possibly even two steps at the same time. Is that gonna be okay? No, just as we are rapidly relaxing, this leads to uncertainty here and there, or disappointment in sectors where the measures cannot yet be abandoned. I'm gonna walk by a couple of points. Many Dutch people are currently looking forward to their summer holidays, after having been unable to travel for a long time. Much remains to be done about this. What are the conditions with regard to vaccinated or tested? How are we gonna prove that? Can the Minister, for the people who are following this debate, outline the latest state of affairs and give more clarity? Does he want to say something specifically about the duty of testing children when travelling? Because they don't have a chance of being vaccinated yet. What about travelling outside the European Union? How's that gonna work? Mr. Chairman. At the end of this summer we all hope to be fully vaccinated. Who could have predicted that last year around this time? That's great. Even the people who had problems with the AstraZeneca vaccine get an alternative. But which group will have to wait longer? Can other people now also be given a choice for the Janssen vaccine? It is a pity that now that things are going so well an opinion from the Health Council again creates so much uncertainty and uncertainty. How is that possible? With this advice from the Health Council, can the Minister guarantee that mid-July and September 1st still stand as a house? We all see actions for special groups. That is of course good, but we have also been delayed. We don't actually see any action to speed things up. What is the Minister doing in that respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u3	There is an interruption by Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yes, when Mrs De Vries finishes her speech on vaccinations, because I have a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u6	Together with my colleague from the Christian Union, if everyone wants to be vaccinated, I want to make a proposal that will ensure that groups of people who so far did not want to do so, because they did not have enough information or did not understand the information, will also have the opportunity to be vaccinated. In other countries they do the same, for example with mobile puncture locations. Just in Dutch: vans going to neighborhoods. General practitioners do that now and then. Could Mrs De Vries support that proposal? Because that means we can increase the vaccination rate. Then we make it easier for people to get that vaccination. It is also quite complicated to follow it all precisely now, especially since the questions Mrs De Vries had just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u7	I am in favour of looking creatively at how we can get that vaccination rate as high as possible, because that is simply crucial. I do not think it should delay the overall process too much, but we should certainly look at it. I'm from the province of Fryslan. There's a G.D.D. bus out there already. He's been to Harlingen, among other places. I think you are referring to such examples. I think you should see if those kind of best practices, good examples, can contribute to increasing vaccination rates in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you for that. What a nice start to the debate: that we are all going to put our hands on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u9	Very good. You will continue your speech, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr Wilders does not agree yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u11	Before you do that, there is another interruption by Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u12	Here's what I was wondering. Measures have been taken in the past, because the pressure on hospital care and ICUs has been enormous. The PVV may not agree with all the measures, but we supported the idea that you should do something if code is threatening to be black. We've always supported that. But now the situation is completely different. We see a huge increase in the number of vaccinees, and thus the number of elderly people and the number of vulnerable people who have been pricked once or twice and are no longer on the ic's. The ICUs are empty, too. Yesterday I saw the picture of Mr Van Dissel, who showed that at the beginning of August there are still zero to twenty people on the ic's. So I was wondering: why do you not plead on behalf of the VVD that all the measures should be lifted immediately today? Why should we continue to do this until, as Minister De Jonge I believe, September 1st? Why then should we only lift all the measures, including the basic rules such as the 1.5 meter distance and the masking obligation? Why not now? The hospitals can handle it and we have vaccines in the Netherlands that are available for every variant and are also effective as people who want to take it voluntarily. So there is no reason to stop freedom now. Why, as a liberal, do you not advocate opening up the Netherlands now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u13	I think I just indicated in my story that I would like to do the same if I could. But I think we will need a few more measures, because they are precisely ensuring that this hospital occupation is low and that this ic-capacity is going to increase, so that we also find ourselves there, in my opinion, completely able to start that regular care completely again. I think that's important. So if it is possible and if it is justified in terms of epidemiological situation, we are going to accelerate as far as I am concerned. But it must be possible to do so responsibly, so that the care can be kept up to date and recovery care and catching-up care can start again in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u14	Two things. First of all, don't change the rules during the game. The cabinet has told us that freedom-limiting measures are needed for citizens and businesses because of the pressure on care and because of the threat of code black. We have supported this; not all measures, but that idea. It's not like that anymore. You can't say that there are other reasons now, or what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health said at the press conference, that there might be other variants or that people from abroad might come back from vacation taking it. None of that has been said. We've taken measures because of the pressure on care and code black on the ICUs. That is out of the question! Is that what's gonna happen in the next few days? No, it's not. Because people are massive... Today's one millionth shot! One millionth shot! People don't come on the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u15	The ten millionth shot, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u16	The ten millionth shot. See, there's a lot more than I thought. The ten millionth shot. So that ten millionth shot means that people don't end up in intensive care with corona. Not after two shots, and I've also seen three tests that show that even after one shot you won't be in intensive care. If you hold on to it, be consistent and say: we have done so to prevent code black and the pressure on hospitals and the ic's... there is no question of that anymore. Then why do we have to stop people from looking at the European Championships on a terrace on a screen? Then why do we have to say: you can only exercise with so many men and sit on so many square meters on the terrace? That's all crazy. It's all not necessary anymore. Corona's not over, but the corona crisis is over. So we need to get our freedom back. Why don't you choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u17	I hope that we can get that freedom back as soon as possible and get things back to normal. I also see that the cabinet has announced that it wants to take steps 3 and 4 at the same time. I would like to pass on a question directly, because I understood from the media that it might even be considered to bring it forward. If all that can be justified: fine as far as I'm concerned. But I also want to prevent us from regretting it later and we say: now the contamination numbers are going to rise again, the pressure on the ic is going to rise again and we won't be able to catch up on regular care in a good way. I think the PVV too is concerned about this, because that is very important, also for the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u18	Finally. None of that is true, as you say. That fear is gone. No one, including Mr Van Dissel, expects us to get code black again. No one, not an epidemiologist and not even the cabinet, thinks that in August we will get full hospitals again with people with corona. In fact, 10 million voluntary shots have been made in just under 10 million people. Especially the elderly and the vulnerable have been given them. So the ic's aren't filling up anymore. Maybe I can ask you differently. And then give you arguments, please, so not just of: if we can, we have to do it. Why wouldn't it be possible? Will you give three substantive arguments as to why you think it could not be done and I am wrong that the ic's are no longer going to fulfil the criterion? Almost 10 million people have been voluntarily pricked. Corona will unfortunately stay with us for a while, and maybe always, but the corona crisis is over now. So we have to give freedom back to the people. Why can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u19	Let me give you one example. A lot of people have had a first shot, but not a second shot. We're really still working on that until August. I think it's important that we have the vaccination rate at a high level. If you can do it responsibly sooner, you'll really find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u20	How many interruptions did I have? 40?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u21	Four questions, so this is going to be the fourth. And later on with the rulers six, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u22	By ruler, then, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u23	Would Mr Wilders like more rulers to join us later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u24	Not that, either. Then this is my last interruption. My question to you is this. You just said "people were only pricked once and not twice." Recently, the Health Council, the main advisory body of the cabinet, sent a letter to the House of Representatives. The Health Council says they've got an investigation on the letter is a note of two or three investigations, I can show them to you that even people with one shot don't get hospitalization. That's what the Health Council says. There are a lot of foreign investigations, British investigations, which have been saying the same thing for a long time, but the letter from the Health Council states that people who have been pricked once at least for the duration of six to eight weeks should not end up in hospital. So that's not an argument. Those people aren't getting into the hospital. They might still be able to get it, but they won't be in the hospital anymore. And that is why we have declared those measures. So it's not true what you're saying. Can you say again why you think we can't and that we can't get our freedom back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u25	I don't want to stand here a little bit like I would think I wouldn't want to. We fully agree that we want to see these relaxations as soon as possible and that we are going to normal as soon as possible. Then I don't look at the second shot, but then I look at the first shot. Not everyone could've gotten it. I think we should do this step-by-step. We need to look at what's possible. If you can do it faster, you will really find me by your side, because I also think it is important that we get back to normal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u26	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yes, thank you. Then the Dutch who live abroad. Frankly, I found the answer of the cabinet disappointing. We all see nice actions to help other countries, but for this group we do nothing. Why not opt for a number of actions such as those in France or perhaps other countries? This group should not fall between the shore and the ship, so what will the Minister do about it? I'd like a little more action for this group. The same applies to the Dutch vaccination certificates which are not accepted in Germany because they are in the wrong language. If Germany does not want to cooperate, look at practical solutions. For example, make a translation available. Then there's the motion on the standard of the fast-test locations. The VVD would like to know for which part of the country that is 20 minutes travel distance, for which part of the 30 minutes and where one has to travel longer, and also whether these locations are all ready in time; see for example Zeeland. As I said before, a sector which unfortunately cannot yet be opened is that of the fairs. Have we really done everything we can to see if that can't be safe after all? If they can't open by now, are all the necessary permits going to be in the docks so there won't be a day's delay if it can be done by the end of June? I'm not getting away from the Van Lienden file. An entrepreneur may, of course, make a normal profit, but you should not make a profit from a crisis. As far as we're concerned, it's reprehensible that you say you're not working for profit when you are. My question is: what is the status of the covenant that was attached to the documents that went to the House of Representatives? It states that the participating parties are non-profit-making. Finally, Mr President, perhaps the most important point. The fact that the country is closing down means not only that we are allowed to do more fun things again, it means that people in care can take a little breath again; that we see covid departments closing down, that we see crisis care being reduced and regular care is being taken back. We hear the first hospitals say that they can display all the treatments, but we must now get to work hard to make up for the damage. Will we make it to the end of 2021 - early 2021? The anesthesians say we've been at it for two years. We will, of course, discuss this in more detail later, but can the Minister tell us something about it and reassure us that the pressure on the care staff is also being closely monitored during this period? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u28	There is an interruption by Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u29	About the same care staff. Of the week there was an interview with several ICU nurses in the newspaper. You can discuss who has had the hardest time in health care, but I think that the ic nurses, who have seen people die, who have seen colleagues die, are in the front line of the people who have had it the hardest in the past year. They're gonna get 0% pay increases now, nothing at all. While mask traders and directors of companies that receive state aid run away with millions laughing, ic nurses get nothing. For the fourth time, the cabinet refuses to carry out an approved motion on increases in healthcare salaries. Are you going to join the rest of the Chamber today who wants to do something for these ICU nurses?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u30	I think steps have been taken with the health bonus and in the regular course there is also money for salaries. I think we should do justice to the ESC's report, because there are a lot of points in it. I think there's more to it than, for example, the salary. I believe that the cabinet has indicated that it will come up with a comprehensive plan of what is needed and what is possible. I think that's a good thing, because there are things in it for control and control of the nurses. Those are things you really need to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u31	Now it's gonna be beautiful. We've been discussing care pay for almost a year. The VVD has always stood in the way of doing something about it, whether it was running to the parking garage or voting against all kinds of motions. Now there's a report behind which was first hidden. First that report was said: if there is, then we are really going to do something. Now the argument is not to do something now that you want to do more later. Nobody's gonna believe that, right? You can raise salaries now and then say: there are other good things in the SER report; we are going to do that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u32	I want to go check out the whole package. I believe that the Minister has indicated the same thing. I think it's important to look at the whole thing. Of course, there's something in it about salary. That's right. But you also need to see where you might do that in a targeted way. I think it is the right way to look at it in an overall package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u33	Well, in conclusion, then. I wanted the VVD to have been as careful when it came to aid to multinationals, or when it came to profit margins for mouth caps importers. We'd have had some extra money left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u34	I think it's kind of a weird equation. I think our entrepreneurs have had a very hard time. That's what we need to look at. And we need to look closely at what we do for care. That's more than just looking at what it takes at some point for pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u35	An entrepreneur who hasn't had a hard time has also touched Mrs De Vries for a while. That went very quickly in her text. I was wondering what the position of the VVD is in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think I have indicated this in my text. The time is limited, unfortunately, and I think we will come back to the whole package of the annual reports in detail in the debate on this issue. An entrepreneur may make normal profits. It's part of being an entrepreneur. But don't preach to the world that you're going to work for no profit, when it doesn't turn out to be. I said I find that objectionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u37	This doesn't go beyond a moral apple. I understand that too, because according to the entrepreneur it all went by the book. I am curious to hear the answers of the cabinet to the questions. Would the VVD be in favour of ordering the government to do everything in its power to prevent this type of practice in the future and to bring back existing practice where possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u38	I always find it a little complicated to talk about a specific case. I believe that the cabinet has clearly indicated on what basis has been assessed. In the very large group of suppliers that has been there, we looked at price, quality and whether the mouth caps could indeed be delivered. I think that's eventually the way to judge it. From the image that has now emerged, I do not get the impression that rules have been broken. I don't think you can just say you're gonna recover it. I think that's a really weird move, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u39	Speaking of which, of course, it is not just the 30 million that Mr Van Lienden put in his pocket. It may well have been completely legitimate. I don't doubt that for a second. Of course, it's total stupidity of the U.S. Department, but that's another matter. But there's a lot more going on. 1.1 billion is spent on the testing society, 100 million on sickening mouth caps, 5.1 billion on which there are no receipts, and 5 tonnes on tests that are not used because we lack test capacity. How do you weigh that whole palette of incompetence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u40	As I said, I think we will come back to that in detail in next week's debate on accountability. I'd like to say something about it here. I think we should also realise that we were in the middle of a crisis. I think a lot of people have been shouting in this room too: buy mouth caps, buy breathing equipment, buy this and buy it. That is without prejudice to the fact that I think it should simply be properly arranged. The information position of the Chamber must be good and there must be a proper deviation in the case of, for example, the Compatibility Act. I'd like to keep in mind that we were in the middle of the storm at the time. Yeah, that's actually my reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u41	I don't think I've ever asked you to go shopping for masks. That decision was made by the Ministry, because everyone thinks that those mouth caps are working now, while at that time they were still being reported...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u42	I know your opinion about mouth caps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u43	That was at that time the same opinion as the Minister of Health's opinion. He said they weren't working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u44	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u45	My question is: you may be in the middle of a crisis, but you have to be prepared. If that's how the Department of Defense handles our weapons, we have a very big problem. When an average entrepreneur deals with his business in this way, he goes bankrupt. If you work somewhere, in a normal organization, you'll probably be fired if you do this. You can't insist that, because we were in a crisis, we could throw billions of dollars over the beam without having receipts and without that being justified? And, forget it, we're shrugging our shoulders, because we were in a crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u46	I think Mr Van Haga is now making a caricature of what I am saying. I have also said a number of other things. I said that we were in the middle of a crisis, but of course you have to make sure that this is in order and that it is done as well as possible. I would like to make another comment to Mr Van Haga. Mr. Van Haga, we've agreed rules here, and we're also wearing masks. I don't think you're gonna stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u47	That is another subject, but I will give you a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u48	No, those masks aren't working. That has been said so many times by the Cabinet that it is inconceivable that you still wear them yourself. It was about money being spent here in a very strange way, and without there being receipts of it. You seem to be okay with that. You say we'll talk about that next week. No, I want to hear from you now whether you think people should be fired at some point when they are in a crisis situation, but I don't care if they go with a non-preferred supplier, spend 5.1 billion without having receipts or buying test capacity for €500,000 a day and just don't know what they're doing. This is so cross-border that anyone who would do so in a normal situation would be set off. And you're okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u49	I didn't say I'm okay with it. I said that I understand the situation we were in, but of course you always have to look at how you account for it as well as possible and how you apply the rules as best you can. We also have exceptions within our own Compatibility Act. There is not good enough use of that either. That really needs to be better in the future. Absolutely, I totally agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66. The other microphone, if you'd like. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u51	Since last week, Europe has authorised the Pfizer vaccine for children under 12 years of age. I would like to ask a question about this as a liberal. There are about 150,000 chronically ill young people in the Netherlands who also get the flu shot. Yesterday, there was a 13-year-old report on Ramona who has asthma and has been quarantined for months as a precaution. They say: give us the chance to participate in the vaccination programme and to get that Pfizer prick too, because then at least we will be protected. Does Mrs De Vries think it would be a good idea if we made that possible and opened up as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u52	Yes. I agree with Mr Paternotte. I would like to know first of all from the cabinet what that means for the vaccination strategy and the pace at all. I would like to pass that question on to the Minister. Now we're going to give the 60- and 64-year-olds another opportunity. That is also a very vulnerable group. It must therefore be justified and we must not delay too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is starting to shine more and more. It's not just the bright sun. Anyone who walks past a terrace sees people shining. Whoever walks out of a GGD location sees people who have just been vaccinated. I'm sure we'll shine when we walk out of the museum, the cinema or the theater again. It is therefore right that the Prime Minister began immediately with the cultural sector at the press conference. Despite the fact that many are now shining and we are looking from a pink cloud, I would like to emphasise that we are not there yet. Yesterday Jaap van Dissel warned: the Indian variant is more contagious; vaccines are less effective; in England the British variant is replaced; Germany and other countries have therefore made travel restrictions stricter. The Netherlands didn't. In fact, all flight bans have been lifted for two days now. Germany, the United Kingdom, Belgium, all neighbouring countries do have a travel ban for India, plus strict quarantine rules. The Netherlands only has a light quarantine law, of which we do not yet know whether it works at all. The Chamber asked, and the OMT states: now move together with the neighbouring countries. Why doesn't the Cabinet do that? It is precisely because of this Indian variant that OMT, virologists and epidemiologists speak of an uncertain autumn with possibly the basic measures. However, the Minister believes that on 1 September the mouth caps and the one-and-a-half meter rule can finally be removed. So I ask the Minister: on what basis did he make this statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u55	All support for Mr Paternotte with regard to his question on the flight bans. Why do we say goodbye so quickly in the Netherlands? The letter we received says that the OMT advises that for people who come from a high-risk area but have not had a covid and have not received a full one, there is an urgent indication of quarantine. Does Mr Paternotte agree with the CDA that this should simply become a quarantine obligation? He is right to point out that enforcement is still a question. If we become very vague in the terms we use... We need to be very clear: a quarantine obligation for people from a high-risk area who have not been fully vaccinated or who have not had the disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u56	I think it's a very fair question. We first had a quarantine recommendation and we knew that about one in three complied with it. Mrs van den Berg now refers to the term 'urgent indication', but that too is in fact an opinion. I wonder why the cabinet thinks that more than one in three are going to stick to that. If almost no one adheres to that, what is the added value? Wouldn't it be better not to impose it at all, or indeed to make it a duty to release vaccinees or people who have already had the virus? I think Mrs van den Berg's question is quite right. I am not yet sure how I am finally in it, but I do think there should be a very good answer to that. Everyone agrees that there will be a moment when the virus is among us, just like the flu actually is. But for the flu, we don't wear masks and we don't do contact tests. People are wondering: when is it still proportionate to have all kinds of measures? How does the cabinet view the establishment of ethical frameworks for this? We have the luxury of asking these questions because things are going well with vaccination. I read the compliments the G.D.D. gets all the time. Years after year are invited. Since last week, the minister has been doing ankeilers, some kind of pre-announcements on Twitter. My compliments on that. I expect a detailed photo report of the Minister's first shot tomorrow morning. However, there are also groups that are not yet on the invitation list, namely the children from 12 years of age. During June, the Health Council will issue an opinion on the role of children in getting the vaccination rate as high as possible. We certainly have to wait for that advice. We hope for a positive opinion. But there are already children who do not want a shot for a social reason, but because it means a lot to them, for example because they have asthma and or a muscle disease. These kids usually get flu shots, too. Because of corona they have been missing school or daily spending for a year and a half. I ask the Minister whether we cannot offer this group the chance of voluntary vaccination already. Parents ask about it. Other countries - the US, Germany, France - have already started or are about to do so. I ask the Minister to make this freedom of choice possible for this group as soon as possible. I also ask for this freedom of choice for the Janssen vaccine. Since yesterday, only Pfizer and Moderna are in the vaccination strategy for young people, but I hear a lot of people say that they want the Janssen vaccine, because they are ready with one shot, which is useful. Can they choose to do so from now on? After these invitations, there will still be people who have not yet been vaccinated. Only a very small part of them are opposed to vaccination in principle. Most of it simply has not yet been achieved, or is running at thresholds, which we can remove. The prick bus that is coming and which is already driving around is a great idea, but shouldn't we also have vaccination sites in summer where people can walk in, without an appointment, and get a shot right away? General practitioners or pharmacists should have a stash so they can vaccinate people quickly. We would like to see this opportunity this summer. I'd like a response. In the summer, Dutch people want to be as protected as possible in the wider world, with a vaccination certificate. Other countries have already started to do so, but we are still stuck in the discussion about the yellow booklet. What about that yellow book and when will the vaccination certificate be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you. I see there is another interruption by Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u58	I waited for Mr Paternotte to finish. I heard Mr Paternotte speak about the luxury of choosing the Janssen vaccines. It seems we have a lot of Janssen vaccines left. It is very nice for people to be able to choose, but many of these vaccines would, of course, come to their senses even better in countries that are now crying out for help. Suriname is one of those countries. I would like to hear from Mr Paternotte whether he, like Bij1, thinks it would be very wise to send as many of those extra Janssen vaccines as possible to Suriname as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u59	We, and Mrs Simons, have already asked questions about this. Your heart breaks when you look at Suriname now. What we have always wanted to avoid is now: code black. They have to choose who is still caring for and who isn't. Only 85,000 shots were made in Suriname, on a population of more than 400,000. So what we can do to help Suriname, as far as we are concerned. It's not just foreign. It's a country that has incredibly strong family ties with us. Many people in the care I have spoken to in recent times also say: "I have done part of my education there. My heart breaks when I see what's going on there." If I read that there are 100,000 vaccines on the shelf, I would say: can some of them go that way as soon as possible? For example, can a plane go that way tomorrow, because that can make an incredibly big difference for the elderly and people in care. So I think you are making a very valid point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands wants to return to the old normal, as soon as possible. We literally crave freedom, to a restaurant, to vacation, to normal shopping, to a birthday party with family and friends, to a life without a mouth cap and the one-and-a-half meter rule and so on. We crave a normal life, where our Prime Minister Rutte no longer decides what to do, but yourself. Freedom, then. Minister De Jonge announced last Sunday that he expects all the corona measures to be cancelled on 1 September. My question is: why then? Why not on September 1st? Why not now? The number of corona infections is falling significantly, as is the number of hospitalisations and the number of corona patients on the ic's. It is expected that at the beginning of August there will no longer be people with corona on the ic. In addition, the number of vaccinees increases significantly. The vaccination readiness is unprecedented, which has resulted in an enormous increase in vaccination rates and immunity. In addition, most elderly people and those at medical risk have already had a first shot and often a second shot. We know that people who have been pricked don't end up in the hospital anymore. Research also shows that after one shot, people are no longer in hospital. The corona virus hasn't disappeared yet, but the corona crisis is over. So why a complicated step-by-step plan with rules on group sizes, the number of people at home, in the catering industry, at sports or anywhere else? I thought the restrictions on freedom were based on the pressure on care and on the number of people on the ICUs. We've always been told that by the Cabinet, haven't we? Now, those numbers are heading for zero. Then why don't we get our freedom back right away? Then why do we have to wait until September 1st? Mr. Chairman. It is also up to the bullying to forbid people from watching football games on the outdoor terrace during the European Championships. Don't do that to us, I'll tell the Prime Minister and the Minister. Just let those outdoor screens in and leave the terraces open. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the CDA's Sywert van Lienden, member of the CDA programme committee. He's the guy who could put 9 million euros in his pocket with a lying talk trick. He acted as if he had only altruistic intentions and wouldn't make a penny out of it. Afterwards, his offer to supply Chinese mouth caps came through Mr Omtzigt to Prime Minister Rutte. Afterwards, the VWS Ministry transferred 100 million euros for mouth caps that were never used because they were not good. Mr. Chairman. Agreements on protective equipment worth more than EUR 100 million have been concluded with suppliers throughout the corona crisis. One of them was a match to that CDA liar Sywert van Lienden, who also provided some nasty shit. This CDA guy made 9 million profits. This stinks worse than rotten fish. It's pure neighborhood politics and scam. My question to the cabinet is: can the agreement with that CDA con man be annulled and can the money be recovered? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then catching up with the regular care, the biggest task that still exists today. The Minister for Medical Care has now sent a plan six months after the PVV's motion, full of abstract policy language, but what should be in it is still not in it. When exactly do people get their delayed help, their delayed back or knee surgery? There is not even a view yet on the extent of deferred care, let alone on when people can get it. And for the National Care Reserve, the Minister is still in the process of reconnaissance. So I say, with all due respect, to the Minister, you have the speed of a snail and we need a whirlwind. Mr President, I should like to end with a positive conclusion: I do not often compliment Minister De Jonge. Fortunately, he has found a solution for the group of 60- to 65-year-olds who do want to be vaccinated, but not with the AstraZeneca vaccine. They are now being offered an alternative vaccine, Pfizer or Moderna, and that is very good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u63	I don't think he's handling the compliment properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u64	I too would like to congratulate the Minister: the yellow booklet is now going to be stamped everywhere. So I can withdraw my whole question. It's done! That's great. But question to Mr Wilders is about the following. He always demands attention for more space in the outdoors, now also with the screens in the outdoors. Quite rightly, but I don't understand why he doesn't ask why the terraces can't double. The terrace border is now 50, but if you have a restaurant and a terrace, you can also put 50 people inside. But if you can put 100 people on that terrace, you have 100 people in the outdoors. Of course, that's way better than 50 people inside and 50 people outside. Does Mr Wilders agree with me that you are much better off keeping the limit at 100.........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u65	My whole text today reflects the view that we can now lift the measures because the corona crisis is over. As far as I'm concerned, it's all right. But at least your proposal is better than the cabinet's proposal now: make sure there are more terraces! For the second time, therefore, I would like to think about this, but my proposal is, I say to my colleague from D66, to lift the rules now, to just open the terraces, and to make sure that people can do it as much as possible without all the rules. And please let people enjoy playing football without the Cabinet telling you to go home at 11:00, not to be on the terrace and not to be on that screen. It's too childish for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u66	I would like to compliment Mr Wilders, because we will not always agree politically, but in the Sywert issue Volt is fully on your side. Thank you for pointing it out so openly and honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u67	You're welcome. I hope that we will be able to make a joint motion on this in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u68	Well, well, well. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone is pleased that there are further relaxations and looks forward to the next step, but I do have my first question. The CDA doesn't understand why amusement parks can even open indoor sites, but fairs that are not outdoors. Apparently that's only because they need a permit. Can the Prime Minister explain that further? And can the Minister confirm that there will be accessible access testing sites in all provinces? Last weekend there were confusing reports about this in the Provinciale Zeeuwse Courant. Mr. Chairman. It is good to go into the neighbourhoods to persuade people to be vaccinated, but what specific measures does the Minister for the Caribbean take? In his letter he states that on Saint Martin the vaccination rate is 32% and on Statia 45%. Worryingly low, especially because the economy of these islands is very dependent on tourism. Mr. Chairman. Older people who didn't want a vaccine at first may choose now, but what does this mean for the waiting time of young people? We need to keep the virus contained. Is the Minister prepared to impose a quarantine obligation on persons from a high-risk country without proof of full vaccination or proof of infection? According to the CDA, the term "urgent indication" in the letter is not enforceable. Next weekend in Germany is Fronleichnam, Sacramentsdag. German tourists are now canceling their booking, because the Netherlands still has Germany on orange code despite the low figures there. So they cancel, because otherwise they can only come in here with an expensive PCR test. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The CDA has most of the concerns in catching up care and the organisation of the care in the autumn. On the timetable of catching up, the CDA finds the Minister rather optimistic. The recovery plan has yet to be made and employees are exhausted. Mrs Kaljou, chairman of the NZa, also believes that more time is needed. Why does the Minister not take advantage of this crisis to take a real step towards reducing administrative burdens? This immediately provides space for recovery, for less workload and for extra hands on the bed. How will the Minister monitor the development of catch-up care? Mr. Chairman. COVID-19 stays with us. At the end of the summer, it must be clear how care is organised, that cooperation is no longer voluntary, how coordination is carried out, how flexible it can be scaled up, etc., but also how behavioural influence is on the agenda. For example, it turns out that only one in five people stay home or do a test after a trip abroad. We need to be prepared for the worst scenario. That is why I have a few more questions. How is it further worked to disprove disinformation? Does the system of sewer water measurements now function in such a way that we can predict new outbreaks? Can GMD test locations which are now being completed be scaled up quickly and robustly as soon as necessary? Is ventilation in all schools in order on time? We have also asked Parliament questions about this. And is there any insight into the care needed for patients who have had chronic symptoms due to corona? In her letter of 26 May, Minister Van Ark made a good analysis of what needs to be done, but she did not move forward and pointed to a next cabinet for decision-making. The CDA doesn't think that's possible. It is not for nothing that we made a proposal in the previous debate that was adopted, that there should be scenarios at the end of the summer, including a solution. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you. Mr Kwint's last question from the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u71	My third question was a conclusion. I thought we agreed to let me ask four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u72	No, it's four questions or comments. What you do in those four moments is up to you. We are trying to keep the debates a little more compact, so this is unfortunately your last remark or question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u73	Or conclusion, but that would be a crazy time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u74	Or conclusion, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u75	I have a question for Mrs Van den Berg, since she attaches such great importance to the execution of chamber motions that the cabinet has commissioned before the end of the summer. One of those Chamber moves that has been adopted and which the Cabinet orders before the end of the summer is about care salaries. I was talking to the VVD about that. Ic nurses are now getting zero euros. Their salary doesn't go up. It's zero. Nothing comes of it, and while mouth cap importers run away with millions, Booking's top guys run away with 30 million and we're now setting up a committee to see if politicians make enough money. What would you say if you met an ICU nurse who said, "Where is my appreciation? Has it really been nothing but applause?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u76	Quite rightly, Mr. Kwint says we should look at the salaries for care. The CDA has supported that every time. That is why we have also supported that ESC report. But the ESC report also shows that there are many elements that need to be addressed, such as more control and more autonomy. We as CDA have reserved hundreds of millions for care. You can see that in the wire transfer from the Central Planning Office. However, we do believe that this dossier should be looked at in its entirety and that it should therefore also be taken up by a new cabinet. But from the fact that we have earmarked money for this, it may also be clear that we, as CDA, consider it very important that something should be done about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u77	Of course, you always have to make choices when you draw up a text. I did miss an important issue that should be dealt with by the CDA in particular, and that is the Van Lienden issue. How does Mrs Van den Berg feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u78	I have already responded in various media that we have always understood that it was non-profit what Mr Van Lienden would do. So now it's up to Mr. Van Lienden to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u79	He did. He says: it's all by the book, it's all by the rules, it's all legal; it all has to be possible. While he said at the front: this is non-profit; I'm not going to make a dime of it; charity et cetera. It is of course also true that Mr Van Lienden had a prominent role before the elections and was a member of your programme committee. I do not know what he has written about bonuses, about grabbing and about making money on the backs of others, but I still think it is a very weak attitude of the CDA to point out that the ball is now with Mr Van Lienden himself. What does the CDA think? Does the money need to be recovered? Does the CDA consider it ethical that millions are being made over taxpayers' backs in crisis times? Do you want that money recovered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u80	That's two things. On the one hand, we're talking about Mr. Van Lienden saying "I'm doing it non-profit" and now it turns out he's made nine million dollars on it. We really think that lies with Mr Van Lienden. That's also his responsibility. The other thing Mr Kuzu is putting forward is: what about the contracts and the entire pricing of the Ministry? The Minister said that we looked at quality, security of supply and price. The price of the mouth caps was within the framework agreed at that time. If the Minister now says: we see the agreement with Mr Van Lienden as well as perhaps with other suppliers, because there are of course several suppliers who will have made a profit that they have not complied with the agreement, yes, then all the support to the Minister to take action there. If a contract has stated that profits were Maximised or not allowed at all, then the Minister has all the legal basis to intervene, with the full support of the CDA. But we consider the Van Lienden question to be separate, because Mr Van Lienden said: I am not doing it. So you can't have $9 million at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u82	We know that a healthier life contributes to a less bad illness when you get corona. Last week we saw that healthy food in the Netherlands is only becoming more expensive and unhealthy food is only cheaper. Once again, the plea was made to go for a reduction in VAT on fruit and vegetables. I know that your party spoke in favour of this during the election campaign not so long ago. We are therefore now in a position to vote on our motion for a resolution, because we think it was a long time ago, but it is now a long time ago. I wonder if the CDA can join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u83	I think we have a technical point there, not an ideological point. The CDA also believes that prevention is absolutely better than cure. It was, of course, shocking last week that we saw that candy and ice had become cheaper in all these years and the healthy things, such as vegetables, have become more expensive. We, too, want to do something about this, but we have always understood that I would like the Minister to explain to me that the whole VAT system falls within a European system and that we, the Netherlands, cannot simply change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u84	The last cabinet increased VAT. The reduction of that VAT is without any problem. The increase introduced in the Netherlands in recent years could be reduced immediately. I wonder how the CDA looks at that. Let's at least take that step. As far as we are concerned, there have been a lot of studies and we need to go much further into this reduction. We can take steps now, but at least the increase in the last cabinet will be reversed as quickly as possible, not by the European Union but by the Dutch Parliament. We can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u85	I would like to hear the Minister's response and what we could and could not do in the short term. But, once again, Mrs Van Esch, we are totally in agreement on the purpose, especially since we have also seen in corona that prevention, such as obesity, is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mrs Simons van Bij1 first and then Mrs Ploumen van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u87	I would like to come back to the Van Lienden question. Because I think it's a little too easy for a CDA-kamer member to ignore the fact that a CDA-minister makes such a deal with a prominent CDA-man and we have to settle for: yes, that's weird, it's not neat that he suddenly gets 9 million. But he didn't accidentally get stuck with the $9 million. I would therefore very much like to hear how the CDA, how the CDA's parliamentary group points this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u88	Quite clearly: first of all, this was not a CDA minister. Because it was Minister Van Rijn who was then responsible for all medical devices. That contacts have been made? Yes, I became myself, and I think every corona spokesperson, flooded with emails from companies that said: I can help, I have material, I have mouth caps, I have machines. I've also received e-mails from unknown companies. I didn't know him, but they made a serious impression. Then I called them and said, "We have the National Consortium Tools." Yes, but Mrs van den Berg, who get thousands of requests of this kind, we just don't get any response. Then sometimes I have also referred things to the Minister's PA: it is up to you. I think that has happened in many areas, that companies have been brought to the attention of the Ministry, and that they were all companies that said: we can help to deliver those medical devices here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u89	It's been noted. It is a CDA minister who asked on television last weekend if we can all, for God's sake, understand that this is how things turned out. I personally, no, I don't understand. So again, how do you suggest that this minister says: yes, it was crisis, too bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u90	I also understand that in crisis A. sometimes you have to be very creative, out-of-the-box and do things outside the standard procedure. That, for example, things have not been tendered: all the support of the CDA that in the middle of a crisis you are not going to follow a weeks-long procedure for a tender. That you may have bought too much from a particular drug: all understanding. For we have only said here for weeks in debates as a Chamber: we have to have those mouth caps, it has to be available to everyone now and it doesn't matter what you have to do, you just have to get them there. So we have every sympathy for that. The fact, as Mrs De Vries said, that is something that we will certainly come back to in the annual report. But that perhaps a price has been paid that is a little too high or that there has been some stock: if you know how we stood here a year ago and have just told Minister Van Rijn that we want to have it now, then I do understand that the Ministry has sometimes sought other ways than the standard roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u91	I am very happy to see this empathic side of the CDA and will certainly remember that in the future, should one forget it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u92	I would like to return to Mrs Van Esch's question. She and I have often drawn together when it comes to the fact that the government also has a duty to ensure that people can eat healthy food. Too often it was said: it is people's own fault, but it is not. And that is proven once again: healthy eating becomes more expensive, unhealthy eating becomes cheaper. There are a number of measures that we can take together that are very quickly effective, that are proven to work, but the CDA has always refused to do so. But I actually hear Mrs Van den Berg coming more and more towards us, so I'm gonna try again. Importing a sugar tax. That can be done, so: France and England do all that, which has a lot of results. The only reason it doesn't happen in the Netherlands is because the soft drinks industry was just sitting at the table. My question to Mrs Van den Berg is: is she willing to join us in this debate? I assume that Mrs Van Esch also wants to table a motion to introduce the sugar tax immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u93	I understand Mrs Ploumen's question. We also want steps to be taken in this respect, but I think it is right that this should be done in an integrated package. We've made the Prevention Agreement with different topics. It is good to take a next step in this now, where all these elements also come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u94	It's getting better! Mrs Van den Berg wants an integrated package. I've just got that ready. That includes the sugar tax, further measures against smoking and further measures against alcohol abuse. I have a very good plan for this, so if that plan is simply supported by Mrs Van den Berg in my election programme, then today I really have made a great deal of progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u95	I would, of course, like to keep Mrs Ploumen optimistic, but I do not want her to draw any conclusions that we may have to discuss afterwards. We believe that prevention must certainly be included in a new coalition agreement, whoever is going to be in the government. Attention to prevention is high on the agenda and you need to look at this in its entirety. But I would find it too easy to put forward a motion on this at a short time, because there are always budgetary consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u96	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u97	Thank you. While the Netherlands is slowly getting hope for something nice in the coming months, our caregivers are still on the front line. They stay that way, because suppose after the summer we're largely out of corona, which I sincerely hope, then the care still toils. Delayed operations and treatments, a screaming shortage of staff make one thing crystal clear: the coming year will not be a year of recovery but of buffing. Whatever we do here, caregivers will continue to do so to a large extent, not because of The Hague, because they don't believe in it anymore and they don't expect anything from it for a long time. No, they do that because they care about their patients. Meanwhile, a whole stack of motions for a decent care salary has been passed. When the cabinet hadn't fallen, they didn't want to implement it because there was a mistake in the votes, and after the cabinet had fallen, they didn't want to carry out the motion because it wouldn't be up to a outgoing cabinet. When the old Chamber was still there, the cabinet didn't want to do it because there was another SER report to come. Now there's a new Chamber, the report is ready and the cabinet doesn't want to do it again, because it's up to a new cabinet. The cabinet still looks most like a drivin' teenager: there's always a reason not to clean up your room. Why do you find it so complicated to pay the care staff a decent salary? I was just telling CDA and VVD, did you hear the ICU nurses? They're quitting this important work. They're stopping! They're quitting. Why? Work pressure. Sure. And a hell of a year. But also because a lot of people finally snapped when they saw that after a year of hard work their wage increase was exactly right now. As far as we're concerned, that's nothing less than contempt. If you import mouth caps and you join the CDA program, all the doors open for you and the millions fly your way. If you fight on the ice for other people's lives, you'll have a moment of applause and then the door of the Tower will go shut. If you're a director of Booking.com, you fill your pockets with taxpayers' money, and if you save lives, you can bite on a stick. Fucking idiot. It is not these people's fault that there is no new cabinet yet. Nor is it the fault of these people that this cabinet has fallen. We can't go into a Prince's Day without extra money for care staff because everyone still walks the door to Mrs. Hamer and there's still no new cabinet. We are not going to table a new motion, because that is why trade-K wipes off his proverbial derriere. Just go do this! Otherwise, we'll write an amendment ourselves. We're gonna get another spring note. The cabinet knows that there is a majority in the meantime, but spare yourself that failure and choose, now, for those staff. Finally, a few other loose points. Long covid patients are currently suffering from a conflict, a joust, between private clinics and insurers. Insurance companies say that the treatment is not yet sufficiently proven. Clinics claim the opposite. Whoever's finally right, the patient's getting hurt right now and sitting with the fried pears. What is this cabinet going to do to achieve good care for those long covid patients in the end and to come up with a solution to this conflict? The secondary schools are largely open again. I wish teachers and students all the strength to do so. But now I hear that even in primary schools, which have been much more open for a long time, self-tests are still not delivered everywhere. Last Monday, teachers were already working in high school. Do you remember the terms? Everyone has to get tested twice a week. Last Monday, the schools opened up and the tests weren't there. How is that possible every time? Why wasn't this settled before it was relaxed? Here's what I'm gonna do. The Minister has told us that his project Testing for Access really couldn't be done through the GGDs. They were too busy. Yesterday we read that the first GGD's close their test streets because there is not enough enthusiasm for them, while new locations for the project Testing for Access are still being opened throughout the Netherlands. How does the Minister explain this? How does he explain that 1 billion will go to private parties via a foundation to enable a few events, while the GGDs close their test streets? Finally. Should the Court of Auditors not even investigate the procurement policy of tests, protective devices and more in this crisis, deeper than has been done today? Don't get me wrong: not because every dime has to be watched in the middle of crisis and all the rules have to be followed, but to learn from it. We were at the forefront of this when the care staff had no protective means, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u98	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is so nice that the coronapandemic in the Netherlands is decreasing in intensity. It's nice to be able to visit again more carefree and with more people. The fuss of people sitting on the terrace, even here on the Square, is doing well. It reminds me of last June, when there was also relaxation. Most of us had a nice summer, but then things went very wrong very quickly because nothing was prepared. We've seen where that led. This summer, fortunately, the situation is different due to the availability of vaccines and because the pace of injection has increased enormously. But the corona virus is still among us. To keep the virus under control this time, there are fundamentally different choices to be made. Until now, the cabinet was willing to accept that a lot of people were getting sick. The care capacity, the number of beds on the ICU and in the hospitals, was leading. We have always questioned this. With the declining contamination rates and the rising vaccination rate, we now have to make really different choices. The virus must be contained to the maximum extent possible. Minister De Jonge said it himself last year: the fires must be kicked out. That was the plan last year, but unfortunately that never became the practice. It has to be now. That's why we want to know from the Minister how he's going to guarantee that. Is the source and contact research all right now? How are people helped when they have to be quarantined? What agreements are there in Europe on dealing jointly with possible new changes? Is the government prepared to learn, perhaps before the summer, lessons from the approach to the pandemic so far in an in-action review, as the World Health Organisation also recommends? We also need to learn what we want. Mr. Chairman. Vaccination works, but we see that there are not the same number of people vaccinated everywhere. People are having second thoughts. How is there really going to be an increase in vaccination readiness? Is there any plan to offer low-threshold shots, for example with vans or mobile units, when everyone who wants to get the vaccination has reached the stage? Is there a thoughtful strategy for that? Is the plan ready for that? Because of course it is more complicated than just driving a van through the province of Friesland, as fortunately happens. It is also more complicated than relying on general practitioners who load the remaining vaccines in the evening and drive past patients. The cabinet itself must take the lead. When's that plan coming up? Mr. Chairman. We are also safe here in the Netherlands only when everyone in the world is safe. But the global vaccination rate is... doesn't scare you.. 5%. As a result, many people are still at risk of becoming very sick. The EU must therefore follow President Biden's example, stop being held hostage by the pharmaceutical industry, and ensure that those patents are released. Why is the Netherlands not taking this step yet? It's high time. It was already discussed: what is the situation with the help of Suriname, where the situation is so terrible? The virus is out there and people are getting terribly sick. The people in care can't take it anymore. There are vaccines here that are unused; Mrs Simons spoke about them as well. When will the first vaccines be sent? Finally, Mr President. The corona crisis leads to great inequality. Booking.com rakes money in, billionaires have become richer and people who present themselves as benefactor of the homeland became millionaires of our taxpayers' money. And more than 5 billion euros of care money cannot be accounted for. More than 5 billion euros. That is more than the budget of some ministries. I know that this will be discussed next week, but I would also like to talk about it today. We are responsible here for monitoring the VWS budget. Meanwhile, there is no money for a structural wage increase for people in care. There is no money for the €500 from the budget that was promised. Vulnerable neighborhoods need it very much. That's where the money has to go. The Netherlands deserves a cabinet that tackles this inequality. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mrs Ploumen also drew attention to the "Don't forget us, Hugo!"-group. The Minister is very much aware of that. There's the "Don't forget our kids, Hugo" group now. These are the parents of a total of 150,000 children who are chronically ill. They either have asthma or muscle disease, or they get cancer treatment and they're in isolation. They're dying to be vaccinated. It is also possible, because the European Medicines Agency has authorised a vaccine. The Commission has approved this. Germany, France and Italy are going to do it. The Netherlands is still waiting for an opinion from the Health Council. Does Mrs Ploumen agree with D66 that we should make sure that these children from the flu puncture group are added to the vaccination programme as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u101	It must be terrible for parents but also for the children themselves to see that some of the Netherlands get their freedom back, but that still does not apply to them. We've been saying... look, I'm not an expert. I can't judge it. That is why we are always waiting for the advice of the Health Council. I totally agree with you. I really hope that advice comes very soon. But I think it would be a good thing if the Minister were to make all the preparations in anticipation of that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u102	I'm sorry about that. That advice is, of course, about whether we are going to vaccinate teenagers. For most healthy teenagers, the virus is not extremely threatening. Some of them are getting very sick, but most of them aren't. But this is about children in the flu puncture group, 17- and 16-year-olds and younger, who obviously benefit if they can get that vaccine. It is allowed on the European market. Germany, France and Italy are going to do it. Do you really think we should wait any longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr Paternotte is right. I was under the assumption that there would be another separate opinion from the Health Council on this group. If he's not, then he's absolutely right. Then I think it is important to ensure that they are vaccinated as soon as possible, if the EMA and others have actually approved that vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're all glad there's more to be done. I have rarely seen such a happy whatsapp group as the one with my soccer team mates, who are glad that we will be able to really play against each other again soon. Minister De Jonge shows himself to be a great optimist by saying that we may be able to get rid of all measures from 1 September. Now I am not disgusted by a healthy portion of optimism, but sometimes optimism can also pass into wishful thinking. More than once, of course, it was also apparent that the Minister said things that did not come out later: look at the source and contact research, the test capacity or the vaccination campaign. We also hope that as many people as possible will be vaccinated, so that we are protected with each other in the Netherlands. But as long as the virus continues to spread in large numbers worldwide and as long as mutations continue to occur in other countries, surely the Minister can never make such hard predictions? That's why I have the following questions. What is the government doing to optimally prepare for an endemic scenario, even after the summer? How different would the fight against virus be in a new mutation compared to current policy? Will the Netherlands then step away from steering on ic-capacity and will the own signal value actually be respected? I'd like a concrete response. How do we keep an eye on the virus and possible mutations? Is there enough sequencing? Is there a structural investment in the GGDs? How are we actually going to ensure that the delayed care can be overtaken, with the heroes in care being taxed as little as possible? Mr. Chairman. Over the past 15 months, there has been enormous work in the ministries. But I find it difficult to imagine that a large number of motions, from me, but also from other colleagues, Mr Kwint, have just said that they have not been carried out or have been carried out badly. This also undermines confidence in Parliament and in the government. I have found a whole stack of motions, including the Renkema motion of March 2021, which called for an external investigation into the capacity of the GGDs. Afterwards, with the knowledge of today, it would have been nice if it had been carried out. When will the D66 motion, which we are also under, be implemented, which calls for PCR tests to be made free of charge for EU travel? What has been done about the motion I tabled with Mrs Simons? In this we asked about a small proportion of the total number of homeless people. We have 40,000 in the Netherlands; that is something to be ashamed of us, namely the so-called non-righteous, to make agreements with municipalities, so that they can also be heard after 1 June. Last week, I spoke to an alderman who said, "Nothing's happened yet." We just know that some of these people have ended up on the street. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. What I was also wondering in preparation for this debate is what we are going to do to help the people most affected by the lockdown. This morning I read that the Red Cross indicated that it will continue to provide emergency aid to people in the form of food stamps and food packages. Of course, that is something to be ashamed of; that we need food packages and food vouchers in a country like the Netherlands. But what is the government going to do to help this particular group? What are we gonna do so that kids don't pay the proverbial bill? This morning KidsRights found that the Netherlands had far too little regard for the interests of children. We also know that the problems in youth care have already been very serious. We know that many children also face psychological violence and violence behind the front door during the lockdown. I know the VWS Minister is in talks with the municipalities, but I would also like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister: is this a cabinet priority? What's gonna happen in the next few days to help those kids, too? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a not insignificant question about the vaccination campaign. Yesterday the Health Council came up with a new advice not to use the Janssen vaccine for 40-minners. What does this mean for all the people who already had an appointment and will result in this new delay? My final point, Mr President. We live in a free and open society, in which it is very important that journalists and scientists can do their work properly and freely. They're keeping us sharp. They control the power. But we know that there is more and more threat and intimidation. I ask the Cabinet: what is happening to ensure that our journalists and our scientists are free to do their important work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party. Oh, for an interruption! Go ahead, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u107	It could be either; I can imagine it. I also asked the CDA and was just curious: I assume that GroenLinks is still behind a tax reduction on fruit and vegetables. I see nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u108	We support that, yes. It's in our election program. We have also filed motions together with the Animal Party before. We still think that, because health is incredibly important. Several health scientists also point to this. So let's do everything we can to ensure that healthy food is also affordable for people with a small wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch, you can pick up your speech text and then keep your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you, Mr President. We also see that it looks beautiful and that is, of course, good news. The coronavirus is reduced further and the terraces are full again. That is why, of course, the cabinet has decided to allow the planned relaxations to take place a few days earlier. That seems to us to be a good idea too. Only the students we missed in the list of recent days, also the list of the last few days. We wonder if anything specific is being done for them. We miss them in all eases. I would also like to know from the Minister what the plan is to keep mutations out of the door, which we are seeing more and more intensely. Now that the flight bans have been lifted, we see the worrying developments there. We are also curious how we are further trying to help other countries to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Suriname was mentioned, and I think it is good to see to what extent we can help Suriname, for example. I wonder what the cabinet plan is for that. Mr President, the Corona Act runs until 1 September. The Minister calls it a real perspective to let go of the basic rules by then. Does this mean that we can drop the Corona Act, the Test Act, and the mouth cap light by 1 September? As far as we are concerned, that would be a good idea and I wonder if that will be the case. We really need to start looking at the cause of this pandemic. I assume that the analysis of the zoonoses expert group following the Old Hand motion adopted will be there within two weeks, so that the follow-up to the formation can be discussed. Can the Minister confirm this? Almost all political parties have said in the formation talks that we do not want to see another pandemic. Mr. Chairman. When dealing with zoonoses, the Minister says that public health is paramount and has always been at the forefront. But this is simply not true. While RIVM speaks of a possible new zoonosis from goat farming, causing 1.7 million people to be at high risk of pneumonia, the cabinet has allowed the sector to grow explosively. While the GGD warns that lifting goat stops is medically unacceptable, this minister does nothing to prevent it. Another example, Chairman: bird flu. So far, we have been forced to store for more than seven months, and it has not led to an end to that bird flu epidemic. The gassing of 812,000 animals has not helped either. Two weeks ago, even sick foxes were found infected with avian flu. So the virus jumps from one species to another. What does this mean for the dangers of virus mutations? In the meantime, everyone agrees that a different approach is needed. Is the Minister going to make sure that all the possibilities are now on the table? So also the shrinkage of the number of animals in poultry farming. We have talked about it many times, and I have even talked about it many times today: the poignant inequality between rich and poor, between healthy and unhealthy. COVID-19 hit poor much harder than rich. That is a complex problem and not just to solve it, but this cabinet does make a very thorough attempt by saying in a commercial to this group of people "do you want to have a salad?" In the meantime, this cabinet has increased the VAT on fruit and vegetables very nicely over the past period. Last week CBS announced that the price of fruit and vegetables has risen over the last ten years, while the price of snacks and candy has fallen. I would like the increase in VAT on fruit and vegetables to be reversed, because that can no longer be the case. I will put a motion to the vote next week. I see my bell is ticking slowly and I will finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thank you, Mr President. 1982. That's how fast it's going. You can just imagine that I'm happy with that. The number of vaccinations is rising, the infections are dropping, and that's good news. My compliments to all those who make a big contribution to this. At the same time: covid's deadliest phase may be here soon, headlined the New York Times this week. While we in the Netherlands are making every effort to get the vaccination rate as high as possible and are moving in the right direction in the Netherlands and in Europe, we still see a worrying picture worldwide. This way variants can continue to rage around and the poorest are still unprotected. This requires the commitment of rich countries. Does the Netherlands have a leading role in this and what does that show? More than 5 million have now been raised at Giro555, and it is very nice that so many people show solidarity. But at the same time: how well-known is this action now, how much do you see? Mr President, you cannot answer that, of course, but you understand my question. And if we compare the proceeds to other years, it's low. That is why I call for an impulse. Make a national action day. Let the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS also express their warm support at a good time, but also indicate the urgency of this. Is the cabinet prepared to translate this support into a financial donation to the action of Giro555, similar to previous actions and Serious Request? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the vaccination campaign is really on steam in the Netherlands. So today is the year of birth 1982, unfortunately with the hiccup of the Janssen vaccine. In the meantime, we can see that vaccination rates are quite different in the Netherlands, sometimes even within the same city. I think that in The Hague we can point out one area where vaccination rates go up well and the other area, the Schilderswijk, where we see that people are not being reached. While we know that people in the vulnerable neighbourhoods are most affected by the corona virus. Fortunately, yesterday we heard some ideas from VWS to make that vaccination more accessible and more accessible. At the same time, we and the general practitioners already called weeks ago to provide customized services in certain neighbourhoods. We also see how these steps are taken abroad: with prick boxes and nearby prick locations, such as a temple, a church or whatever. Yeah, encouraging people to get that shot, just when they're lagging behind. Of course, we see a good example in Friesland, then I always look at Mrs De Vries of the VVD, you understand, but in many places I still do not taste the urgency. That is why I urge the Minister to speed up this approach in vulnerable neighbourhoods. Offer customization in areas that are left behind, make sure the information does arrive, see what it takes and make sure that making an appointment is not cumbersome. The GGD, the municipality, local key figures: they know very well what is needed and what can work in a certain neighborhood. I do not want the Minister to think large-scale, planned again in all cases and do more pilots. No, sail and trust in the local professionals, practical and agile work. I would ask that with the PvdA, as you have just heard. I would particularly ask the Minister to work with this freedom for them and to ensure workable plans within two weeks. Meanwhile, we still get a lot of messages from people waiting at home. I would ask the Minister to speed that up. In the previous debate, I discussed the endemic phase. I would like to ask the Minister what is the position on the implementation of the motion for a resolution to discuss with the mayors in the regions. A few weeks ago, I gave my written input to the temporary bill on the closure of buildings in the event of an outbreak. With the present picture, I honestly no longer see the need to give our energy to this. Given the lack of proportionality, I would like to ask and encourage the cabinet to stop putting energy into this bill. I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. In 2010, the Rockefeller Foundation, one of the most influential NGOs in the world, developed a number of scenarios for the future of technology and international development. Here's the report. In this report, the Rockefeller Foundation describes the so-called "Lockstep" scenario, about the advent of a global pandemic and its aftermath. So in 2010 already. According to this scenario, I have it here with me, therefore, the Chinese would be the first to start with "mandatory quarantine for all citizens and immediate and almost hermetic closure of all borders." National leaders around the world would strengthen their authority with laws, rules and restrictions from mandatory wearing of mouth caps to body temperature controls at entrances to train stations, aircraft and buildings. It's all in here. But it doesn't stop there, because according to scenario Lockstep we still have a lot to wait for. Even after the pandemic was over, the researchers write, authoritarian control and supervision of citizens and their activities continued and even intensified. This 2010 report even refers to climate-lockdowns, exactly what they are already talking about in our time. I quote: 'In order to protect itself from increasingly global problems from pandemics and transnational terrorism to environmental crises and increasing poverty, leaders around the world took power more firmly'. The report also provided good guidance on how citizens would respond to all measures. Unfortunately, I would add. Just like now, people are cheering when they're vaccinated. They're putting pictures of their pricked arm on social media. That's what this report says and they're begging for a corona passport. That's what the writers of the Lockstep scenario foretold, like I said. The more controlled world thus finds a lot of acceptance among the population, as they predicted already in 2010. Citizens voluntarily gave up part of their sovereignty and privacy, in exchange for greater security and stability. Citizens were more tolerant and even eager to get more topdown control and supervision. National leaders had more freedom to impose order, in ways they themselves considered appropriate. The authors of the Rockefeller Foundation report had already foreseen that this would lead to a digital passport. In 2010, of course, the Rockefeller Foundation was unable to literally predict the current technological state of affairs, but at that time they thought that enhanced supervision would lead to a biometric ID for all citizens. That's in our paper passports by now. The digital vaccination passport is only an addition to that. Only thirteen years after the pandemic, the Rockefeller Foundation said that the public would learn that they had been cheated, and get fed up with the control and absurd power fantasies of the rulers. Mr. Chairman. I hope the Rockefeller Foundation is wrong on that point. All their predictions have come true, but I hope that they are really wrong in this, and that there will be a point where we wake up, where we see that this is a collective psychosis, that closing the whole country and half the world for a year and a half because of flu variation is insane. I can't believe we're walking around with those prickly, non-working mouth-tops. That we are sticking to those totally absurd distance rules and our companies have seen our social levels break. That we stop fine first-line drugs, such as ivermectin, just to give experimental injections accelerated the status of authorised vaccine. That we're talking about "o, the infections are falling back" while of course that happened last year, as happens every year. Soon, with autumn, of course, new infections will come, as they always do. We pretend that's because of corona, when what we used to call the flu would seem to have disappeared completely. But the most important thing, and these are my final words, is that we understand that on the pretext of some kind of hysteria about this Chinese flu, an infrastructure has been established that can be re-used at any time due to any occurrence. Lockdowns, mouth caps, distance, no more traveling, no more shaking hands, ridiculous experimental injections: this corona time was an obedience training. The House of Representatives and the Rutte government have passed that training brilliantly. Congratulations. Klaus Schwab can be proud of you. Globalist plans can take place and the next step towards mass surveillance and total control can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The end seems to be in sight. Despite the fact that this leads to relief and happiness in society, we should not prematurely count ourselves rich. 'Cause we're not here yet. The schools are opening up irresponsiblely. Not everyone wants to be vaccinated and vaccinations in large parts of the world are left behind. This applies in particular to a country such as India. Mr Van Dissel said yesterday that there is a real risk that new mutants will emerge there that the current vaccines will not be able to cope with. Then the history of this deadly, debilitating and tiring pandemic will repeat itself. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the willingness to be vaccinated and the degree of vaccination among certain groups in our country. Organising the local approach, such as the vaccination bus and mobile units, we warmly welcome at Volt. Has the Minister clearly defined which groups are not reached with the current vaccination strategy? Examples include homeless people, asylum seekers and migrant workers. Can the Minister explain the situation regarding the vaccinations of these groups? Unfortunately, it is not enough to make the provision without a good commitment to communication. Communication consists of only a small part of transmission and received for the most part. I am concerned about the low vaccination readiness of some groups of people, such as in vulnerable neighbourhoods. Does the Minister recognise the risk that the most vulnerable people will not be sufficiently reached and can he explain what he is doing to inform this group properly and to increase the willingness to vaccination? Does the Minister have any idea how other countries deal with this? The world is crying out for vaccination. I would therefore like to quote what Mr Knot of DNB said yesterday in the round table: A new global revival of the pandemic still cannot be ruled out; it is therefore clear that the global economy and therefore the Dutch economy can only really recover sustainably when the virus is under global control. Here I offer the Minister with the quote of Mr Knot, the President of the Netherlands Bank, an economic argument to strengthen the line of US President Biden in the WTO: it ain't over till the fat ladysings. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he wants to join Mr Biden more loudly, fed by Mr Knot's words. How does the Netherlands work within Europe to release patents and increase the EU's impact, to vaccinate as quickly as possible around the world and to prevent further mutations? What about the COVAX programme, for example? Is the current funding sufficient to achieve the necessary vaccination rate? And how do we ensure, when patents are released, that there can actually be vaccinated? Then I have another argument, fueled from the geopolitical context. The Chinese are vaccinating the world. As one Chinese expert told me, China's win-win strategy consists of winning twice for the Chinese and nothing for the other, from Serbia to Africa. This, too, is an argument that inspired Mr Biden. My question is therefore whether the Minister will take this with him. Soon to come out of the pandemic and see that the geopolitical cards have been shaken to our disadvantage is not a matter of bad luck, but comes from naivety or laxity. You snooze, you lose, just to throw an English expression at it. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he wants to take this argument with him to his European colleagues and towards the WTO. Having said that, the Netherlands can help Suriname without the WTO. We have 100,000 AstraZeneca vaccines on the shelf, which we could donate directly to Suriname. Can the Minister explain the choice not to donate unused vaccine to Suriname, while the situation there is poor in terms of hospitalization and mortality? Can the Minister review his decision and donate these vaccines as a matter of urgency? This saves lives there and contributes to the global approach to the pandemic. Vaccinate the world is protecting ourselves. Mr. Chairman. Actually, I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna go real quick...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u117	You're over your time now. The final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u118	The last piece. Everyone wants to go on vacation. Can the Minister state the state of play regarding the preparation of the travel pass? Is the date of 21 June correct and does the Minister see any problems? This is about the vaccination data. The border regions in particular want to be clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by complimenting my amount. Because once again the cabinet surprises the country by walking out of step with the open plan. It looks like we are accelerating our return to truly normal relations, and that is exactly what our country is looking for. Proceed to start, turn in your mouth cap and don't hold a distance of 1.5 meters. Both the current figures and the summer projections are positive. In view of this, can the Minister indicate a target date on which the basic measures can also be definitively abolished? I'd like a sunny perspective as an answer to this question. In addition to compliments, I also have some critical questions and comments. An important point of attention is the catching-up care. On the basis of declaration data, the Dutch Association for Anesthesiology has calculated that there is a delay of about 350,000 hours operating time. Even if hospitals can provide 10% more operating time, in normal circumstances it will take more than two years to eliminate the backlog. That is contrary to the optimism of the Minister for Medical Care. What is the real prospect of catching up with delayed care and how can the cabinet support hospitals in it? Then we focus on education. Former Children's Ombudsman Marc Dullaert does not have a good word left for keeping children at home at the expense of their mental health. A few weeks of physical education can make a big difference. My group attaches great importance to the fact that schools are opening their doors now, so before the summer holidays. We are therefore pleased that the cabinet has taken steps in this direction. I would like to know how the EUR 8.5 billion intended to catch up on educational disadvantages is being used. How is it ensured that this shot hail, as NRC Handelsblad calls it, actually hits purpose? Or is the cashing consultants' ball already in full swing? When it comes to cashing, I have another one: coronacasen. Our language is impoverished in 2021 by the term "coronacasen." The purchase of protective equipment from the company Relief Goods Alliance has become the visible symbol of the structural weaknesses identified by the General Court of Auditors at the Department of VWS. About this sample of coronacases, I've asked Chamber questions. I thank the Minister for Medical Care for her answers. There are still questions, some of which I'd like to present to her. The Minister in her answer to the questions of my group that LCH sent on the basis of purchase price, quality and security of supply. According to the Minister, given the circumstances and the desire to buy too much rather than too little, the offer involved a reasonable value for money. The reconstruction of the tugs around the buying-in creates a different image. Why, despite the hesitations that existed at the time at the LCH, was signed at the cross and why not earlier, cheaper proposals? About the quality the following. Following research, RIVM rejected the masks because of an "unacceptable health risk." It was not just a risk, but one in the category unacceptable. RIVM's advice was ignored. Due to the absence of hard technical requirements for the certificate, the presence of graphene did not constitute an obstacle. During the entire crisis, RIVM has been designated as a leading body on a continuous basis. Why were the RIVM's advice so dismissed? Finally. Was the Minister aware of RGA's commercial income model or not? In the media, it has been emphasized that it is not. The answer to the parliamentary questions now states that the earning model was not relevant. There are two possibilities: either the businessman with whom RGA made the two deals of 100 million euros together, the VWS Ministry has a wheel in mind, or the VWS Ministry was certainly aware that this supposed benefactor wanted to fill his pockets quickly. Both possibilities are not very attractive. What's true? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I'll finish. It is clear that we are critical. You can expect that from this Chamber. But we're happy to close positive. Society can finally open up again. In this debate on developments around the corona virus, we can observe with caution that the end of the corona crisis is in sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u122	Madam President. There's a lot of reason for gratitude. The Netherlands was locked for over five months. Due to the decreasing pressure on health care, it is now possible to seriously relax the corona measures. That's good news. Each phase also raises questions, sometimes practical ones. What exactly is it about? I will start with something that my group has a lot of questions about: weddings. Apparently, that's what it's for. The uncertainty about exactly how much space there is to make it a festive day is great. Can the Minister clarify exactly what rules apply? Can he also actively communicate these rules to the security regions and the sectors concerned? A lot of people would be grateful to him. Mr. Chairman. We are now entering another phase of the crisis. It's a phase of recovery, reconstruction, reconstruction. It's a phase in which we learn to live with the presence of the coronavirus. The virus is endemic, that's what it's called. The key question of the SGP for this debate is therefore: what vision does the Cabinet have for this next phase? I heard Minister De Jonge say that it is real that we can release most of the corona measures from 1 September. That is a hopeful thought, but the necessary questions do arise. The summer of 2020 was used by the government as a period of reflection on the policies pursued. Does the cabinet intend to do that again this summer? Will the cabinet, for example, take a critical look at the usefulness and necessity of the current basic measures? Take the mask. How proportional is such a duty when the epidemic is really on its way? I also share Mrs Bikker's plea regarding the new legislation on building closure powers. It's not appropriate to come up with that now, is it? Mr. Chairman. Over the past period, a number of hospitals and ic-recordings have been important indicators for making choices regarding measures. Is it going to stay that way for the next few days? Or are other indicators leading and, if so, which ones? Suppose, in autumn or winter, a revival of the number of corona infections occurs again. Do we accept it, or does the government retake the blunt axe of the lockdown? Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind the government of the recent opinion of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. That says: gradually shift control and responsibility over life towards society in the further opening up of society, bringing back the balance in the division of roles between government, businesses and citizens; many citizens and businesses have shown that they are willing and determined to devise and organise solutions to societal problems. I must say that this is at the heart of what the SGP has also argued in the past Corona debates, namely: normalise social relations as much as possible. How does the government implement this advice? I would also like to include the recovery plan for care. A lot of compliments have been distributed today. Let me compliment you on the clear letter we received from the Minister for Medical Care. At the same time, the SGP raises the following question: is there any work here to standardise responsibilities and tasks in healthcare? Can the Minister reflect on that? Over the past year, the VWS Ministry has done a lot of good work for this, which is very much appreciated, but in the coming years you would also expect more commitment from other actors, such as health insurance companies. Their role in ensuring access to catching-up care is only mentioned in a sentence. I wonder how the Secretary of State for Medical Care sees that. In her letter, she also briefly addressed the question: how is care better to emerge from this crisis and what lessons should we learn in the long term? I read that she is collecting building blocks for a new cabinet. My final question is: is there sufficient ammunition of information available for this or is there still a need for a targeted investigation through, for example, the inspection or the NZa? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, things are moving in the right direction. Step by step, we go back to normal life. Everyone's gonna be craving that. The number of infections is falling and the hospital occupation is showing a decreasing trend. However, it is important that we continue to insist on complying with the basic rules, such as keeping away, keeping hygiene and staying at home with complaints. For my group, masks are not one of them. The OMT warned me last year about the risks of wearing mouth caps. It can lead to a sense of false security and ensure that we do not comply properly with the real basic rules. Moreover, there is still no solid evidence that the use of mouth caps in public places reduces the number of corona infections. With the Netherlands slowly falling off the grid, it is more important than ever to encourage measures that do have proven effects. Remember: open a window, keep a little distance from each other, wash your hands and wear mouth caps only if you cannot guarantee the one-and-a-half meter rule. Van Dissel said it once before: the effect of mouth caps is extremely low. So for mouth caps too, as far as DENK is concerned, it is possible to relax. Is the Minister prepared to do so in another step? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a second point for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Last year my group criticized the creation of colour codes. For example, South Cyprus got code yellow, while Northern Cyprus colored dark red. Travel advice was found to be politically motivated. At the time, the motivation of the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State was completely unclear. I would like to ask the government if it can pay particular attention to top holiday destinations such as France, Italy, Morocco and Turkey. These countries are on orange for the time being, which means that these are only destination spots for necessary travel. The question is on the basis of which criteria travel advice will be issued in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of questions about the evidence needed to travel. When are you actually exempted from the PCR test? By when does that happen? Can vaccinated Dutch people who wish to travel with the Digital Green Pass also travel outside the European Union? Are there any discussions at European level with countries outside the EU where the Green Pass will apply? Mr. Chairman. Last week it became clear that Booking.com wants to give its top drivers around 28 million euros in bonuses about the corona year 2020. This is special because they have fired people and received EUR 65 million in state aid. The reaction of Minister Koolmees yesterday was: not a fine image, but legally it is allowed. That's ridiculous. Speaking of the pennies, I'll give you a list. No less than EUR 2 billion in corona expenditure cannot be accounted for. The financial rules have been breached in the purchase of test material and protective equipment and the payment of health bonuses. It is completely unclear whether the numbers of corona tests taken on invoices paid by the minister were correct. In total panic, 40 million mouth caps have been ordered that are now quarantined in some warehouse, unfit for use because they pose an unacceptable health risk. The big winner of this panic buy is a Mr. Van Lienden. The handigert managed to find millions over the taxpayers' back with a trick while pretending he wouldn't make a dime of this. Mr President, all in all. The Chamber is structurally informed too late, concludes Arno Visser, Director of the General Court of Auditors. As has been shown on many occasions, the cornerstone of our democratic system for this outgoing cabinet is something that you must leave in the corner. That's very bad. It is undemocratic and unworthy of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last week was a relief for a lot of people. The first relaxations coincided with finally nicer weather and from 5 June there is more possible again. I am particularly pleased for all those people who have been solitary and socially isolated for a year, including hundreds of thousands of elderly people living alone. They too will be pleased that four more people are allowed to visit each day and that for them too, the activities will start again now that associations and community centers are allowed to open again. In the previous Corona debate, I asked for information on vaccinations in an understandable language and the motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously in this Chamber. I am pleased that the invitation letter that people have received to make an appointment for their vaccination has been modified in consultation with Pharos. I would like to thank the Minister for that. I very much hope that this will help us find more people willing to be vaccinated. This brings me to another concern that I have, namely that research shows that one in 12 people aged 80 and over will not show up for his second corona prick. I'd like to ask the Minister if there's any record of what's causing this. Is that because people think they're already adequately protected from corona after the first shot? Or do people not know how important the second shot is to be maximum protection? What can the Minister do to ensure that as many people as possible get that second shot? I would also like to call today for more information on the importance of that second shot and to remind people of their appointment for that second shot. This is to get the vaccination rate as high as possible. We also see that many general practitioners indicate that some of the people who do not know the Dutch language well do not want to be vaccinated. It has been mentioned before: in Germany, success is achieved with the mobile prick teams, who literally and figuratively come to people. I would like to ask the Minister to do the same in all neighbourhoods in the Netherlands where vaccination is low and there are relatively many low-age people living there. "We're coming to you this summer" could literally be your slogan. The next point I would like to raise is that the Health Council has indicated that there is less time between the two AstraZeneca pricks. With that, many people waiting for the second shot have the hope that they can get that second shot before the scheduled date. I understand that logistics is very difficult, but I would like to ask the Minister, for example, to facilitate general practitioners. What can be done to ensure that people can get their second AstraZenecaprik sooner? Mr. Chairman. The Minister's letter shows that the picture shows in the longer term that, despite the vaccination programme, a new epidemic may be possible in winter. There may be loss of immunity and new infectious variants of the coronavirus may occur. This means that, in addition to the current vaccination programme, additional basic measures are needed. Are we already working on a roadmap to anticipate the above scenario in good time? The Minister nods. I would like to conclude my contribution to this debate with a request to the Minister. We see that the corona crisis has created an extra-large burden for carers. For those carers it is very important that the respite care is properly arranged. In this context, I would like to know from the Minister what is going on with the so-called accommodation services. There's been a pilot, very successful. Can the Minister tell me if there will be a plan, so that accommodation is possible in all municipalities in the Netherlands? Because mantelzorg is not what you choose; it happens to you. Some of the carers have a day job to care for a loved one and sometimes even a day job and a night job. Of course they do so with love and attention, but for them this corona year was extra heavy. It would therefore be nice if we could, like the healthcare professionals, give them a token of appreciation, for example a family allowance bonus. I would like to propose that this bonus be paid to carers who have been taking very intensive care of someone for a long time. According to the SCP, it's about 830,000 people. Mantelzorg.nl has come up with a very nice plan for this. I assume the Minister knows that and I wonder what the Minister thinks about this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u128	Thank you. Mr President, dear citizens of the Netherlands. Although BBB voted against the Test Act, BBB has tried to ensure by means of a motion that if people want to be tested, they have faster access to test sites. The Minister and I have perhaps had a small fit in this Chamber. I don't know if you can remember that, but I'm not the worst. That is why I would like to start by thanking Minister Hugo de Jonge for his commitment to setting up test sites in rural areas and specifically in Zeeland-Flanders so that ruralers do not have to travel for hours or expensive journeys in order to be tested. Honor to all who deserve credit. Then here's the thing about testing for access. For the development of an access testing infrastructure, the Minister expects to spend EUR 500 million to EUR 700 million, but is there any demand for this infrastructure? The theatre in Oss, for example, only wants to test for exceptional access, the cinema in Tilburg already reports that no tests will be required and also the local wok in Loon op Zand prefers to use less capacity than they test. Who are these millions spent on? Aren't we here putting the horse behind the cart? Then there's the freak who's called vaccination passport. COVID-19 seems to be on its way everywhere, yet we have to travel with a vaccination passport under the arm. Why is this still necessary? Can't we just stop this bullshit? The Minister has always said that there will be no vaccination and no vaccination urge. The Minister also says: you don't have to go abroad; you can just stay in the Netherlands. Well of course there is nothing wrong with staying in the Netherlands. We have a beautiful countryside, beautiful farm campsites, country shops where you can buy delicious food grown in the Netherlands: your regional steak that you can grill on the campsite on the barbecue. We have beautiful villages and rural cities where hospitality and post-mortemism is rule rather than exception. But the vaccination passport does limit your freedom of movement. Without this monstrosity, you can't go and stand wherever you want. You are limited in your constitutional rights, so there is indeed vaccination coercion or at least urge. No, you're not being dragged by your hair to the doctor or to the GGD, but entering the vaccination passport is and remains just a disguised compulsion. My question to the Minister is: from what point do we think that the damage to privacy, fundamental rights and the cost of the corona passport no longer outweighs that? And why not use the internationally recognized yellow book instead of a complicated expensive app that doesn't even work on older smartphones? Many elderly people and digibetes are thus made impossible to go on holiday. Finally, the border region. Would the Minister consider urgently, given the much lower covid figures and our own positive trend, that with immediate effect the status of Germany, where the covid figures are much lower than in the Netherlands, should be yellow? This will make it easier for the Germans to visit our beautiful country in their next long weekend and thus give the border regions economic support. That wasn't final. I'm gonna end up with soccer. I can tell a whole story about that, but Mr Wilders has already put it perfectly. So I want to leave it at that: please, don't be so cramped and just allow those screens on the terrace. I'd like to stick with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is important that we continue to see the broad lines in all the debates on the delusions of the day. Not because details are insignificant, but because symptoms can tell us a lot about the underlying problem. Because we talk a lot about the symptoms of this government policy, but there is, of course, only one key question here: who does and does not work for? It works for Pfizer's bosses, who evade tax on millions of profits through the Netherlands. For private rehabilitation clinics that can drag in long covid patients without expertise due to the marketing of the care. It works for Sywert van Lienden, it works for the shareholders of Booking.com and for the private test companies that make a lot of money from the unscientific field lab projects. Then there's the $5 billion the minister can't find back. Where'd it go anyway? I can tell you where it didn't go anyway. Not to the supermarket employee, the welfare mom, the entire care staff. They get a big middle finger, just like young people, carers, chronically ill and sex workers. It didn't go to the parents, not to the non-righteous homeless who are now being driven out of the shelter, not to the people from at-risk groups who have been inside for more than a year. Not to the creative makers or all those people on the waiting lists of the ggz. They have had to go on their own, with minimal support, over the finish line. But, above all, let us debate again how trust in the rule of law can be undermined. I see a parallel. A parallel between the economic strategy of this missionary, and previous, cabinet, and the corona strategy. Because all this time it was about the interests of a few over the interests of all of us. Not contain the virus, but let it rage out under control as long as there's still an ic-bed available. Keep the economy as open as possible. The neoliberal dream above the harsh reality of the crisis. KLM had to and would make it to the finish line. The Song Festival was supposed to be there. But 17,632 didn't make it to the finish line. The KidsRights Index 2021 indicates that children have been hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide. The full extent of the impact of the policies pursued still needs to be revealed. And, according to the report, Dutch children have been abused under this policy to keep their parents at home. Once again, economic interests for this outgoing cabinet outweigh public health. But that choice for the economic interests of some does not pay off at all. Because is the economy saved? Well, far from it. Is there any policy ready to prevent another zoonoses? No, you don't. According to the new Demissionary Secretary of State of EZK, climate drones have to stop pushing. Is the Netherlands in any case international solidarity, so that the virus can be stopped worldwide? No again! The Netherlands still refuses to release patents and to send surpluses of vaccines in large numbers and in time to Suriname, for example. These are all questions that amount to: which lives count and which do not? Let us concentrate on that and let us not forget it while we stare blindly at the delusion of the day. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has paid a very high price for the corona policy of this cabinet. The damage caused by the corona measures is enormous and the account is an integral part of Dutch business. Many tens of billions of euro's turnover have been missed by wrong decisions, by mop policy and by flaws. While it has long been clear that many measures only cause damage, the cabinet perseveres in a senseless lockdown, mouth caps, visit restrictions, school closure, a expensive test society and an indirect vaccination obligation. Money doesn't matter, because it's someone else's money. Taxpayer's money, entrepreneur's money, which is no longer allowed to take action. What does this cabinet do? 1.1 billion is spent on the test society, which Minister De Jonge himself says has no idea what the costs and benefits are. A billion sickening mouth caps are ordered, of which just as much as 30 million hangs on the bow of a handy broker, while it was not a preferred supplier. Of 5.1 billion, Minister De Jonge cannot explain where the money has gone. And to an extent of disaster, test capacity was bought for €500,000 per day, without any use being made of it. I would like to hear from the Minister how all this has happened and what consequences he has drawn from this. Mr. Chairman. Then some questions about vaccination gate. Why do people who have already been vaccinated still get multiple invitations? Is that registration database finally in order? Why would you vaccinate children at all if they don't get sick from COVID-19? How does the Minister weigh up the report just mentioned by Mrs Simons, where it was stated that the Netherlands has used children as a means of combating corona? I'd get another letter about the 80% reliability of the rapid tests. I didn't see anything, so where is this evidence that I was recently promised? As a result of the good results in India, I would also like to hear from the Minister whether he intends to consider the off-label use of ivermectin. Finally. In crisis time you need competent people with the right background, the right education and the right experience. It is now clear that the VWS Ministry is a major risk to both the finances and health of the Netherlands. It would adorn the Chamber if this risk disappeared today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u133	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-7.u134	I'm suspending the meeting until 2:20 p.m. Then we vote first, and then we get the follow-up to this debate, starting with the first term of the cabinet.
