ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the follow-up to the budgetary treatment of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to the Minister to deal with two issues, corona and varia, and then he appreciates the amendments. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr President, thank you. Yes, I will continue with the theme of corona. I think we should say first of all that we will come back to it in greater detail next week. The Cabinet will announce its measures on Tuesday, given the current situation. We had, I thought, a debate scheduled next Wednesday. I just want to say a few things about it. In actuality, we can see that the numbers are rising. We cannot ignore this, especially when the budget debate is on the subject of VWS, because it brings us into a new wave, not so much a wave of contagion only because we had said: let us focus on hospitals, but also really a new wave in hospitals. It will be lower than in the past winter, but nevertheless too high to pass by. Just look at today's figures: 154 recordings in the clinic and 14 recordings on the ic. This brings the number of people in the clinic to 741 and the number of people on the ic at 203. That's not close to the waves or the occupations we've had, but the number of new recordings is way too high. We can't ignore that. The second thing we really cannot ignore is the fact that four out of five patients on the ic have not been vaccinated and three out of four patients in the clinic. Why do I call that? Because last Tuesday's budget debate also referred to the MUMC, where it was said that the figures are obviously very different; how about that? We checked that out, of course. Turns out that's the figure in one week. So it's actually a picture instead of being a movie all month. In addition, it is of course a UMC. So it's a university medical center. That always gives a little distortion of who's lying there. But also in this UMC, during the whole month of October, 64% of patients are unvaccinated. That's been reported to RIVM. It is important not only to realize that there is a photo in relation to the film from all of October, but also to realize that it is really a distortion compared to the picture as a whole in hospitals, because it is a UMC. In the picture as a whole of hospitals, three out of four patients in the clinic is not vaccinated and four out of five on the ic. Why do I call that? Because it brings me to the reflection that Mr Van der Staaij asks of me, namely: could it not be that if you state that there are many unvaccinated patients in hospitals and thus state that you have to relate to this and that you may also have to take measures that are intended in particular to protect unvaccinated people, because, if they come to hospitals, the accessibility of care to all patients will come under pressure, if you do that observation, will you not, Mr Van der Staaij, ask to ensure that people who have not been vaccinated become a bit of the scapegoat? That is how Mr Van der Staaij formulated it. That's a sharp question. I therefore believe that this question needs to be answered. I don't think so. I think it's our job to make sure that care is accessible to all patients. If we ignore the fact that the vast majority of patients in hospitals have not been vaccinated, while the vast majority of society has been vaccinated, if you ignore that fact, you are on your way to making that care overload again for all patients, if you are not prepared to take measures. That is not what I heard Mr Van der Staaij say. But these measures must be proportionate and effective. The group that is most protective against hospitalization are precisely the unvaccinated people. I don't think I can ignore that fact. Because we also have the task of taking as targeted, effective and proportionate measures as possible, I also believe that we cannot ignore that fact in hospitals when taking measures. What measures are to be taken are all extremely complex and the dilemmas are, of course, enormous. So let's get back to that next week. Then we can better articulate what we do and what we should not be prepared to do. However, I would like at least to take away from Mr Van der Staaij the idea that my contribution would be deliberately polarizing or whatever. The opposite is true. Precisely because you want to prevent this polarization, you will have to take measures that do justice to the situation we are seeing in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u4	There are some interruptions. First, Mr Hijink of the SP, then Mrs Van der Plas of BBB, Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u5	I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to acknowledge that he has made some stupid statements over the past week. I am referring in particular to the statement that someone who has not been vaccinated and is lying on the ice is actually holding a bed intended for someone else. I thought that was a very unwise, very stupid statement, because we should not want to look at the care in our country in that way. Because people who didn't get a flu shot and who might end up on the ic with the flu will be told by the minister: you should have vaccinated; now you have a bed occupied by someone else? There are people who smoke. We know that 86% of cases of lung cancer come from smoking, but we do not say to the smokers: you all suck up care money that is meant for someone else. I am fine with the Minister saying that people should be vaccinated, that this is important and that it is good for their own protection and for the protection of other people. I'm very much in favour of that, but organizing contradictions within groups of patients is wrong. We should not do that in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u6	It is a good thing that Mr Hijink puts it so sharply, because I consciously made the statement I made, no matter how uncomfortable that reality is. But you cannot walk around that uncomfortable reality, namely that the vast majority of society has been vaccinated and the vast majority of patients in hospitals are not. The fact is that, if they had been vaccinated, there would have been quite a chance that they would never have ended up on that hospital bed at all. That fact must be mentioned, because you see something different at the same time, namely that the care must brace itself for the umpteenth wave in those hospitals. We know that if you really have to scale up the hospitals, it's no different than the other care being scaled down. The delay of the other care, of the regular care, is of course not without consequences, even without health damage. The point is that if we do not face this uncomfortable fact and we do not relate to that uncomfortable fact in the measures we take, then you will end up with another type of polarisation. That is the polarization that there is no place for the people who are trying their best to stay healthy and are going to get that shot, because there is someone on that bed who wouldn't have had to lie there if he had just taken that shot. That may be hard, that may be uncomfortable, but it is also inevitable to face that reality. What I do not want to do, if Mr Hijink is afraid of it, is to strongly deny that we will ever find ourselves in the situation that we should choose. That's very un-Dutch. I have heard and read this suggestion in opinion articles etc. and also seen it in interviews, namely: shouldn't you say that part of the care is available to covid patients, so that regular care can continue as much as possible? If you think about that, that means selection at the gate. The Chamber is not prepared to do so, I would not be prepared to do so, the cabinet is not prepared to do so, and I do not think the people in the care are prepared to do so either, because we do not want to choose that. Indeed, it is absolutely true: there are a lot of people in the hospitals partly because of their behaviour. The behavioral component can never be completely disabled. Lifestyle is very often a cause for concern. That's not the point. Just because you don't want to choose, just because you don't want polarization and don't want to determine who still has a place in the hospital and who doesn't, you have to prevent people from getting into that hospital. Then you have to be honest and face the facts. That's just that vaccination works, because vaccination protects 95% against hospitalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u7	But if we consider this to be so important, then the Minister must convince instead of threatening and causing a division. That's what the SP says. Then you go to the neighborhoods. Then you go into the neighborhood, to the people. Then you convince them to be vaccinated. I think it is very unwise for the Minister to make statements like: if you lie in this ICU bed because you have not been vaccinated, it will be at the expense of someone else who should have been there. Because he doesn't tell a drunk driver who's blown into a tree: you're in this Ic bed and now someone else can't be there. He doesn't say that to people who have been otherwise unwise. He doesn't think it's wise that people shouldn't be vaccinated. I think that's unwise; you should. But then you're not gonna organize a dichotomy on the ic. You do not, and certainly not as Minister of Health, because you have to radiate solidarity and you also have to radiate it to the caregivers: it does not matter who comes in here; everyone in this country deserves equal and good care. No one confiscates another's bed, especially when this cabinet is largely responsible for the scarcity of care. Then you're not gonna organize the competition between patients. Then you solve those problems and the scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u8	I think this is way too easy. I just don't think the observations are right either. This polarisation will naturally occur when the operation of people who have been vaccinated, who have done what they were expected to do, has to be postponed again. I think we all know people in our own environment who have been told: I don't know if you'll be able to come back in a while. When you see that, it's not illogical to assume that polarization only grows when we pretend we don't know why. Of course, this has to do with the fact that most of the corona patients in hospitals have not been vaccinated. Mr Hijink may find this an uncomfortable fact, but I find it my job as Minister of Health not only to encourage people to be vaccinated, but also to demonstrate the implications of it if people do not. It is much harder to pretend that it does not exist than to face those facts and that reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u9	First Mrs van der Plas van BBB, then Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Agema and Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u10	First of all, I have the following question. I heard the minister say, "Tuesday we're going to announce the measures." Can the Minister promise the House of Representatives that the House of Representatives will be informed about the measures before the press conference, and that we should not read them in the newspaper as we have seen this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u11	No measures have been announced by this cabinet, so you haven't read that in the newspaper. We do it the usual way, so we announce in a press conference what the measures are. We have done so to date, for a year and a half, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u12	The minister shouldn't wear me out for stupidity, because the last few months after Catshuis's presentations, there has been a regular leak to the press. We have talked very often here in the House of Representatives about the fact that the press is being leaked from the cabinet to the press about what the next measures are, and that they are looking at how society reacts and what the reactions are. Then the House of Representatives should simply read in the media what is said on Tuesday night. So you can say here "we've always done that very well; you never had to read in the press what happened," but that's pertinently not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u13	I'm not saying that. In fact, the Prime Minister has stated once again here that it is bloody irritating when things are published in the newspapers, leaking things and lying on the streets that you do not want to do, because that is not courteous towards the Chamber but certainly because it is not good in the context of the public campaign, the public information you have to provide. It's incredibly complicated and very annoying, but it's leaking. But what we have to do next Tuesday is to publish at once the measures we are taking; I will do the same. We will then send a letter to the Chamber on the same evening and the next day we will have the debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u14	The House of Representatives is really put away a bit as a dummy, while the Minister knows very well that the cabinet is leaking to the press. The Minister says: yes, I find it annoying and I find it annoying, but that happens. That's just what happens from the cabinet. We all know that. I wish the Minister would just admit that: indeed, that happens, that is a strategy. Well, at least we know what we're talking about. Anyway, I have a second question. The Minister spoke of the "pandemic of non-vaccines." We have heard Mr Osterhaus say that we could put unvaccinated people on an island. Last week, the newspaper said that the vaccinees are tired of the unvaccinated. But do we really know of all the unvaccinated people who are in the hospital on the ic why they have not been vaccinated? I heard the chairman of the board of the Gelderse Vallei Hospital on Radio 1 last week say that in her case there are people with serious underlying suffering or serious medical conditions who cannot be vaccinated. I think that is a very important difference in the whole discussion. So can we get a current overview of the people on the ice? How many of these people are unvaccinated, and how many of them are seriously suffering from underlying or medical conditions? And what's the reason these people haven't been vaccinated? Apparently there are many more reasons, for example because people cannot be vaccinated. It's not just people who think "I don't trust it" or "it's gonna suck, I'm just doing what I want." Because that's how it's put down in society, and that's how unvaccinated people are looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u15	To come back to the leaks: I understand that you are bothered by them. That bothers me, too. I have often been disturbed by this, because I have often experienced the most of it myself. I am responding to all sorts of half leaked messages, where I would like to tell the story properly in one go. Does that ever come from the cabinet? Yes, that has indeed come from the cabinet. That's my impression, too, although of course the unsub never comes forward. I've learned that every time you try to find out who did it, it fails. That is also because information in preparation for decision-making ends up on many tables. There's no other way. It does indeed end up with colleagues from the cabinet. The ship of state often leaks from the top. But that ship of state also has all kinds of consultations with all kinds of parties before you can actually come to any decisions. There too, leakage could come from. Sometimes that is strategy; much more often it is clumsyness or interestingness or whatever. But it's annoying. It is not chic towards the Chamber and it is not good in the context of public communication. That's one. Two is the very important question of why. We try to ask this question in all kinds of research: why people do not allow themselves to be vaccinated. I agree with Mrs van der Plas that these reasons are really very diverse. I'm not gonna judge hard why people won't be vaccinated. I only know that not all of these are refusers, but that they are very much doubters too. That doubt has been sown by all kinds of fake information that has been acquired everywhere. This means that we have to go into the neighborhood almost door-to-door in order to ensure that we remove that doubt. We are. I can explain to you in detail, but let us do it next week: what we are doing in the meantime in the fine-meshed vaccination, really in every neighborhood where the vaccination rate is below the mark. The story that this would have to do with people who can't be vaccinated is really not true. The RIVM's assessment is that it could be up to a few tens of thousands of people who cannot actually be vaccinated. These are very vulnerable people with, for example, a really strong allergy to vaccination. Moreover, the number of people who are unable to be vaccinated is considerably higher, but that is not the case. In fact, you hear a lot of stories from people who say: I just had an oncological treatment; I don't know if I can actually get vaccinated. Yeah, right. You're not sure if it works well enough, if it works well enough; that's true. Because you have a vulnerable immune system. But it's very important that you protect yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u16	That's only a half answer to my question. The minister says RIVM estimates there are only tens of thousands. I'm not asking for judgements; I'm asking for figures. In the interview, the chairman of the board of the Gelderse Vallei Hospital simply said: they are often people who suffer from serious underlying or serious medical conditions that prevent them from being vaccinated. That's just a fact in that hospital. Nursing knows what kind of illness that person has. It'll just be registered. So we can just get those numbers from all the hospitals. Then we know how many people we're talking about. I'm not saying it's because all these people aren't vaccinated because they're sick. No, I want those figures because then we can have the discussion purely. Then we know exactly what we're talking about. Then we can also separate those percentages and say: "This percentage really can't. And when I say something in the media as Minister Hugo de Jonge, I'm going to say that it's not just people who don't want it, have no time for it or for whatever reason, but that's also a group." Then we're going to try to get out of that polarization where people who haven't had vaccination now are all being put down as the causes of all the suffering that's going on in the care sector. I'm just asking for actual figures, and there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u17	What we know when registering vaccination status in the hospital is whether or not people have been vaccinated. By the way, we do not know about a certain percentage and we do not know about it at all. But you don't know if that's because people can't, because then you should have people's allergies perfectly in the picture. That's just not an automated process. It is not currently known as the vaccination status of people being asked out in hospitals. If Mrs Van der Plas thinks that that is a large group, the answer is really negative. It's not a big group. Nor is it the majority of the people who are in the hospitals. That's not true. The vast majority of people can be vaccinated, except for a very small group. There is a larger group that says that it cannot be vaccinated, but it is not. Or it has been cast into doubt and therefore does not want to be vaccinated. That is by far the largest group: the group that has been questioned and for that reason has not yet chosen to be vaccinated. I'm deliberately saying "most of all." Another reaction to the apparent idea that these are hard qualifications. On the contrary, I share the starting point of keeping care accessible to everyone, because it is much harder for us to tell people that their operation is being postponed once again. That's very harsh. I think we all know people around us who do. That's a very hard message. If we want to avoid that hard message, we must, precisely in order to keep care accessible to everyone, see how it is that a large part of the care is needed at the moment to ensure that we can properly serve our corona patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u18	The minister just wanders off all the time and sends me into the woods, but I'm not gonna let him send me into the woods. I am simply asking if we can get up-to-date figures on the current state of affairs. How many people are in the hospitals on the ICUs? How many of them haven't been vaccinated? And what is the reason why they haven't been vaccinated? Again, those medical conditions... I heard the minister say "allergies," but it's not about allergies. They are people with cardiovascular disease or with neurological disorders, people who are so seriously ill that they just can't handle such vaccination. That's what I'm talking about. Those numbers are just there in the hospital, because it's just registered. If someone's in the hospital, they'll just record what condition they have. So I don't understand how that's so hard. The Minister also says that is not the majority. If you are so sure about that, you obviously have figures, because you are quite sure that that is not the majority. That's what I'm asking for. I just want those numbers and I don't want to stand here dimming a little bit about whether it's an allergy or whatever. That is my question: can we get those figures? And that it is a hard message is a very different discussion, because that is not what I am asking the question about. Of course that is a hard message and of course I am worried about it, but that is not what this question is about. It's about those current figures, which I just want to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u19	You also have all the figures to give at the moment, because I report on them and RIVM reports on them twice a week; I think even weekly. So you know the vaccination status of the people in the hospitals and you also know the vaccination status of the people on the ic's. To provide more information about it in the sense of what the reason is... There is not always known what the reason is. That is also not recorded in a way that allows you to automatically ask out. So you'd have to interview all the people in the hospitals every day. And yet you won't always be able to rely on the answer. So that's a type of registration that I can't and can't provide either. But the fact is that the vast majority of people in hospitals have not been vaccinated. It is also a fact that the number of people who could not actually be vaccinated for a medical reason is very, very, very small.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u20	I think I'm speaking Swahili, because the Minister obviously doesn't understand what I'm asking for. I didn't ask for vaccination status and whether or not they were vaccinated. Why can the chairman of the board of the Gelderse Valley Hospital say on the radio that they were people suffering from medical conditions or seriously underlying suffering and why can't the minister say so, while the minister says in the same breath that there are not many at all and that this is not the most? If the Minister says so, he obviously has information. So the question is very simple. I have already lost all my interruptions to a very simple question: can the Chamber get those figures? That question is very simple to answer with "yes, you can" or with "no, you can't." In the latter case, I could ask why that is not possible. But I've just been sent into the woods six times. I just want to hear yes or no, and if not, why not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u21	No, you can't, because you already have all the numbers out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u22	I think it's really shameless, really serious. Those numbers are just there. So if I went to Deventer Hospital right now, they wouldn't be able to tell me how many patients they have, for example, pneumonia and how many with a broken foot? That's just registered, right? A hospital knows all the patients why they're in the hospital, doesn't it? Don't they know about all the people on ICU who have diseases at the time? They just know that, don't they? The Minister isn't going to tell me that those figures aren't available or aren't available? It's just a drop-off: you already have all the numbers. No, I don't have those numbers. If I had those numbers, I wouldn't be asking for those numbers here. I don't have those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u23	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u24	Maybe I can just try to explain it one more time. The figures you have are about the people who are in the hospitals, whether or not they are vaccinated. In order to prevent you from getting all kinds of fluctuations, you always have to look at them over a certain period of time. That's why RIVM provides an update on them every two weeks. We have seen in the example of Maastricht that if you take a picture instead of watching the whole movie over the month, you can publish very different numbers. So you have to look at it over a longer period of time, and then look at how many of the newly admitted patients have been vaccinated and how many have not. Why do you want to know? Because you want to know if the immunity that was built up after vaccination, the protection against hospitalization, is decreasing. This is relevant information for the vaccination campaign. That is why RIVM investigates this and also digitizes it in hospitals. That is the data flow that goes from the hospitals to the RIVM, and that is why we have an insight into that. Of course, what you have no insight into at a central level is what per patient, every day, is the reason why one has not been vaccinated and whether there could have been a medical reason for that. Whether this medical reason would rightly be provided by the patient in question or by the family in question is still very much the question. That is one point of complexity. The second point of complexity is that it is not registered at all centrally. And the third point of complexity is that it is not centrally identified. Because that's just not possible. That would be a bureaucratic burden of having you there, with an image that changes every day. In short, the answer is: no, it is not easy to ask out; that is not possible. Does an individual doctor or nurse know when someone is in bed whether or not they have been vaccinated? Yes. Does that matter in the quality of care? No. And does anyone know for sure that the medical reason that might be given for not being vaccinated is true? No, you just don't always know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u25	The Minister is now bringing up the UMC again, but I did not mention the eight out of ten that was photographed. Let me give you an example of the Gelderse Valley Hospital. It's in Ede. I mentioned that example. But if we take on the academic hospital in Maastricht: apparently they can say it there too. Apparently they can say it there too, even if it's a photo moment. And then I still can't figure it out with my hat. The minister says we can't just do that for a second. But I'm not just asking for a minute. I'm not saying, can we have that in ten minutes? I'm asking if that can be figured out and if we can get those numbers. And when the minister says, "Yes, it may be, but it's gonna take a while, because it's a lot of research," well, okay, then that's figuring it out. But to get rid of me with "that's not easy to figure out, we don't do that," I just don't accept that. Unless the minister says he doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u26	First of all, on the Maastricht communication and the communication from the Gelderland Valley. They are quite different, and yet they also resemble each other. The Gelderse Vallei apparently says 'I haven't heard that statement, by the way, that most of its patients suffer from underlying suffering. Of course it is. That makes sense, too. Many patients who end up in hospital suffer from underlying suffering. So that "underlying suffering" is not one-on-one the same as "for the reason of that underlying suffering, people could not have been vaccinated, because that underlying suffering was a condition that was a contra-indication for vaccination." Why do I know that's a very small group? Well, because that's just a very small group across the country as a whole. The second is that which is actually recorded. You ask for a data that is not included in the automated registration. If I demanded hospitals to let me know in real time every day, that would be incredibly much administrative burden on the hospitals themselves. And for what purpose? Because it's just not good to do it. The reason people haven't been vaccinated can be incredibly diverse. How the hell would you turn that into a centralized register? I just don't see it in front of me that I can make a central report on that. That's what I'm saying. What is relevant to our approach is the fact that most people in hospitals are not vaccinated. We do know that. You even filed a motion earlier stating that you wanted to know. You wanted to know how many people were vaccinated in the hospitals or not. You said we need to know. That's when I said I think we should know. I also honestly said that I would not be able to do that next week and not even in two or three weeks, because that really takes time. Well, it took even more time than I hoped then, but we did it. There is simply no way of doing more and more detailed registration per patient. There's really no way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u28	I'm sorry, but that's just too easy. The Minister could also simply say: Mrs van der Plas, you are asking a lot of us; I do not know if we can do that, but I will do my best to see if we can do it in an easy way with the hospitals in the Netherlands. First of all, I really am not trying to trivialize the whole problem or to say that it's fine if you haven't been vaccinated. I am also in favour of people protecting themselves from disease, from corona or the flu. I'm sure that's what I'm here for. That's not my point at all. I am concerned that we have seen over the last week that the discussion is polarising very seriously. Mr Francisco van Jole says on Radio 1 just out loud that Christians who do not allow themselves to be vaccinated should just die. That's what we're in right now, and that polarization is gonna get a lot worse, I predict the Minister. In connection with this polarization, we need to be able to let people know exactly what we are talking about. Because we just don't know that. We don't know exactly what we're talking about. So let me ask you again: can we get these figures and is the Minister prepared to at least consult with the hospitals to see if that is registered or not? Because I think it is far too easy for the Minister to say that it is not happening and that it cannot be, because we have not even discussed it further. I think we can do it. We can go to Mars, so we can do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u29	That's hopeful. Let me respond to two elements, first of all the element of polarisation. I very much agree with Mrs van der Plas that we are concerned about this. The point is only: if we do not face that reality and if we do not see that precisely the people who are not vaccinated need the most protection for any reason they have not been vaccinated, then we will not keep care accessible to both vaccinees and unvaccinated patients, as well as corona patients and non-corona patients. That's the point. That is what you think; we are not opposed to each other in this respect, but on the same side of the line. The accessibility of care to all patients must be our goal. That's one. The second is the registration. I am not going to repeat what I said about that. I'm going to make a commitment in two ways that doesn't go far enough. I'm gonna say that as a warning, too. At least it does not go far enough in Mrs van der Plas' eyes, but it is something I can do. Firstly, this is about the assessment of the group that cannot actually be vaccinated. I think you have a right to have as precise a number as possible of the size of that group as possible based on international literature. I'm gonna have to see if I can do that through RIVM or the Health Council, but I'm gonna estimate that size. That's one. The second point is: can there be enrichment in the registration that we are now getting centralised from the hospitals? I am not yet saying how it is not a question of why, because it is not asked to do so, but whether it would be to register a medical counter-indication for vaccination. That will probably be different in all hospitals again. Anyway, I'd like to go after that, see if we could enrich that central registration and therefore central reporting to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u30	I give Mrs Van der Plas the opportunity to respond very briefly and then we will go to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u31	We could have had this answer half an hour ago. This commitment is already a start, let me put it this way. I ask the Minister to do so before. It started with: it's not and it can't be. In the end it can, at least an attempt, that is my conclusion. Anyway, thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u32	No misunderstandings, anyway. I think I'm right to say that I can't. You say, "Go talk to those hospitals and see if you can't do it." So I say, after a lot of talking back and forth: okay, I'll talk to the hospitals, see what I could do to enrich the centrally reported information. That is quite different from the question put by Mrs Van der Plas. That is why I announced myself: I do not know whether you will be madly enthusiastic about my promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u33	I am now going to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then to Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Agema, Mrs Gündoğan and Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u34	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering many of my questions in writing, because that saves a lot of time. It saves me a lot of interruptions and it also saves a lot of questions that are normally not answered. And it's a lot faster to read it than when the Minister answers it, so thank you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u35	Often less flowery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u36	Yeah, less flowery, that's very nice. Anyway, 80% of the hospital hasn't been vaccinated according to the Minister. Well, I'm constantly intruding on the way those percentages are called. They are always round numbers and therefore often estimates. Then you will see that the President of the Maastricht UMC says that 80% has been vaccinated. And then we get another story about the picture and the movie. It does not apply to me that the photo shows 80% vaccinated and that if you look at it in a month, because that means that the Minister would be 60% unvaccinated on average; another round number. Those are all estimates, I think. I would like to know how it is possible for such a chairman to say so and that the Minister, when he looks at the film, comes to a completely different number. I think registration's the problem. That's what we saw at the coronados. There were a lot of deaths that would have died of corona, but in the end it turned out that a lot of people had died with corona, whether it was a car accident, cancer or whatever. We saw that there was a massive under-registration in the vaccination side effects. For example, we see in Belgium that it is well registered, if you look at Flanders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u37	You ask a lot of questions, but maybe it's okay if...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u38	Let's look at my first question. How is it possible that this picture and this film are so far apart and that the President of the Maastricht UMC says 80% vaccinated and that the Minister suddenly comes up with 60% unvaccinated when we watch the film?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u39	That was indeed my question. How is it that the President of Maastricht calls this number? When asked, Maastricht says that in that particular week a lot of older people with comorbidity or multimorbidity were included and it was that number. I think she meant to say that as a warning that even if you're vaccinated, you're still at risk of getting into the hospital. Of course it is. There you can see that it is different in one umc from the average, but in Maastricht it is also different from the average one has in hospitals. Over the whole month of October, it's about 64% of what I said was 60%, but that was indeed a round number of patients who weren't vaccinated. That is the figure that Maastricht itself reported to RIVM in that month. So these are different numbers. If you would like to communicate about it, you should not look at a week or a day or what is at any time in any department anywhere in the country, because it may contain all kinds of selection bias effects. You have to look at the whole thing. What RIVM does, therefore, is review the report a few weeks back. The group has to be big enough not to get outliers. So the group with large enough are in terms of the number of patients. So they'll be looking at it in a couple of weeks. At this time every two weeks it is possible that they go to every week they report to us about that. It may well be that the larger the group of people who have been vaccinated and the group of people who have not been vaccinated or who have not built up immunity, the smaller the proportion will be. So it is not that four out of five or three out of four is given one standing. That might be a little different. Only, at the moment, I wanted to mention the fact, because I think it is a relevant fact. Because then you know who you have the most to protect from hospitalization. And it confirms that vaccines work, that they work 95% against hospitalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u40	It is at least a little more specific and 60% is suddenly 64%, for which I am grateful. So it turns out to be really a calculated number. But of course it's weird that if you take the average of a week, you reach 80% and if you take the average in four weeks or a month, then suddenly it falls back to 36%. That is statistically almost impossible, because then you must have almost no vaccinees in the other three weeks. I just don't understand that. Anyway, I was just working on a state in Belgium where they administer everything very accurately. In Flanders, for example, you will see 70.9% completely vaccinated in the hospital and a total of 54.4% vaccinated in the hospital in Belgium. Could it not be because the protection of the vaccine simply decreases and people who have been vaccinated a long time ago no longer have protection but are still registered as vaccinated? Or could it not be because, for example, we here do not register people who have been vaccinated as vaccinated if they have only had a first shot? And maybe we'll start registering people as unvaccinated if they haven't had their third, fourth or fifth shot. Could those two things have something to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u41	The reason we asked for RIVM is because Mrs Van der Plas said months ago that she wanted to know, is that we want to know what the effectiveness of those vaccines is. The primary reason why we want to vaccinate at all is, of course, to protect people from serious diseases and preferably hospitalisations. Now we know that the vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation is 95%, but we also know about all the vaccines, especially in people with a weaker immune system, that there is decreasing immunity. The reason we asked RIVM to put this in the picture for us once every two weeks is that we know when and where to start the booster campaign. Internationally, a lot of research is being done. The protection of vaccines decreases slightly, but in fact every immunologist says: it is very special how long these vaccines will actually continue to be well protected. However, what we do see among the oldest elderly is that the protection against infection is actually reduced and the protection against hospitalization is still very little. To get ahead of that moment you want to keep an eye on it and give it that booster on time. With regard to partially vaccinated persons, this is kept up to date. So as far as the people who have or have not been vaccinated are concerned, how much is classified, how much is classified in part and how much is covered, partly of course not so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u42	I do make it difficult for myself to ask two different questions and then I get talked into the woods; I get that very well. Okay, again. In Flanders, 70.9% have been fully vaccinated in hospital, 80% unvaccinated in the Netherlands. How do you explain that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u43	I don't know, but I don't know the Belgian figures either. I'm so glad I memorized all these Dutch figures. So I really don't know. I really should check that out. But let us not pretend that the Netherlands and Belgium are so different. The vaccine effectiveness studies are all international studies. The Health Council and also the RIVM always have all the connections, including internationally, with all the other health councils and also the RIVM's to co-ordinate vaccine effectiveness studies. Between these studies there are all kinds of differences, all kinds of selection bias differences; that is also logical, but the effectiveness of all over the place is very high, precisely against hospitalization. That really is the image that is seen everywhere. And there is still very little evidence of a reduction in immunity. This is particularly the case with infection, and certainly not with serious infection or hospitalization. That's where the vaccine protects pretty well all the time. We can only see that the older elderly are taking a little bit away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u44	Would you mind if I gave Mr Van Houwelingen the floor, Mr Van der Staaij? For Mr Van Houwelingen wants to continue on this same point. Is that correct? Yeah? Thank you. Mr. Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u45	Yes, exactly at this very point, because I think we have a really big problem. My colleagues, Mr Van Haga just and Mrs Van der Plas, come up with all these examples: the Maastricht hospital and the Gelderse Valley, where it is clear that the picture does not match the film, in your words. That's the problem, the movie RIVM presents us. You just said: I can't have all those Belgian figures ready, but all the pictures we have are not consistent with the film. I'm going to give one more picture; I can give more, but for the time being: this is from Bert Mulder, a doctor at the CWZ Hospital in Nijmegen. He states exactly what Mr Van Haga just said. He says: we see the effectiveness of a vaccine dramatically decrease and then he comes up with figures from that hospital. They show that in August I was fully vaccinated for the covid shots at about 30%, in September it was 40%, in October it was 80%. So this is another picture that doesn't match the film. Now do you understand why we want to get the photos? So we want the photos per hospital in the Netherlands, whether or not vaccinated. I don't want that total RIVM figure. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u46	No, I don't understand that. Because the picture doesn't make sense, the movie makes sense. Because why are we investigating the numbers? That's to know if vaccine effectiveness is falling. We see that there is something of a decrease in immunity among the people who have been vaccinated when it comes to infection. So also vaccinees..................................................................................................................................................... That is true, because it is not sterile immunity in the transfer and there is no 100% immunity, also against infection. It's about why we vaccinated. That's because you want to protect people from serious illness and hospitalization. There we see the immunity barely falling, somewhat, but among the oldest elderly. That's one. Two is, why do you want the abstracted grade and not the photo per day per hospital? Because there's all kinds of selection biases in it. Let me give you the example of an umc. The patients transported to an umc, i.e. to a university medical center, are often more complicated patients, because there is a lot of comorbidity, because there are many immunosuppressants that are swallowed because of complex treatments and so on. In short, you want all patients to receive the best possible care and therefore it can be very different to what extent people have been vaccinated or not, per day and also per hospital. So those photos aren't really interesting. What's interesting? That's the movie. Watched the movie for example in a month, and that's why I call it. Maastricht itself reported that 64% of the enrolled patients had not been vaccinated. In addition, it is also said that they were very old patients with a lot of comorbidity. That seems to be in line with the image of the Gelderse Valley, which I do not know very well myself, but which I do understand. Because where there are old patients with a lot of comorbidity, you do see more often that they have been vaccinated and still end up in hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u47	Thank you. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that next week we will have a corona debate. So, of course, I would like to give you your interruption, but I would like to draw attention to that, because there are quite a few other issues and we also have the Secretary of State. So if you could briefly ask the question. Mr. Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u48	I think this is really unbelievable, it's a goddess. I'm gonna say it again: the pictures we have don't match the movie, don't add up to the movie. If we want to be able to do our work seriously here as a Lower House, then we need the photos. You always refer to the total, that's all you do: "Believe us." The RIVM...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u49	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u50	So my question is: in order to be able to do our job properly as a chamber, we need the photos. I'm perfectly capable of adding those photos to the movie myself. We are in a major crisis of confidence; that is the problem. We don't trust RIVM anymore. And why is that the case? Let me give you an example. Van Dissel said during the technical briefing you can look at it all; it is all recorded and I quote it almost literally to us very nicely that the vaccines are at least as good as natural immunity, that they offer just as good protection. The whole world knows that's not true. Pfizer says so himself. So we're just not being properly informed by the RIVM. I don't trust that institute anymore; I trust the Ministry even more, frankly. So, in order to do our job properly, we want to have the underlying photos. That's all. Do you understand that? It's a simple question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u51	What you're saying here is very bad. That's pretty bad. For we must take political decisions here on the basis of the information provided to us. RIVM is an independent institute and a scientific institute. The RIVM indeed abstracts the individual photos into a film that should also require us to act. We want to know when we should proceed to a booster. Then the RIVM must know: that's what we're going to do the moment we see immunity decline. And so that immunity, the protection against hospitalization, is monitored periodically. If you say "that institution does that for us, I don't trust it at all," because you trust an individual story you hear somewhere, or a piece of an interview taken out of context, which is far more relevant than a scientifically justified figure that is abstracted from the individual situation, then we have quite a big problem with each other. Because then we don't trust institutions anymore, and then we spread distrust. And if we undermine trust in institutions, then I think we're doing very badly and the price for that is much higher than ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u52	You can simply restore that violated trust by giving us the underlying primary data, by giving us those photos. That should be very simple, because RIVM itself must base its figures on that. So you can fix it like this. We are going to table a motion on that. I hope that you will take over and then we will have the figures. If it is true then, I will be the first to stand here and say: if I add up the figures of the hospitals, then it is true what the Minister said. So it's that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u53	What kind of an expression of distrust is this? I find it really weird, really weird to deal with your institutions like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u54	Thank you for the answer to my question, because that's what it started with. We do indeed have a separate corona debate, but I did find this a point where you noticed that it created a lot of loosening in relation to the questions: does the government, does this minister not unintentionally participate in polarisation that we should not have? Shouldn't we look at what sensible measures we can take and what call for everyone's responsibility in this situation? Should we not be careful to get into the atmosphere of: you have a bed that is actually intended for others? Then we're gonna point out more culprits than we're gonna see what to do with each other. That is the concern that I had and which I actually still have after the Minister's reply. For he actually says: I have chosen to do so very consciously and I would do it again tomorrow, so to speak, because that is the way it is, and the truth must be told. I understand his sincere concern for the inflaming virus that's behind it. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. But the point is, is this the right way? Are there not more people strongly stimulated instead of pricked as a result of this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u55	That's a nice pun. I hope that they are excited to think: we can't afford that either, because solidarity demands everyone's contribution. So I hope people are excited. I probably hope so in a different way than you mean it. But I hope that people are excited to think again and say: yes, indeed, maybe I should just make my contribution as well. What matters in the end is that we keep care accessible to everyone. If we don't, polarization will only increase more. Because then we have to explain that there is a need to adjust operations again, because it is not possible to keep a bed free for those who at that time simply need a bed. It is not true that only corona patients are entitled to a bed or have priority over a bed. The fact is that all patients are entitled to a bed. We all want to make sure of that. And if we want to keep doing that, then we really will have to increase the vaccination rate further and for that it is good to start with those facts that speak for themselves incredibly irrefutable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u56	The Minister thinks that the facts speak for themselves, but at the same time you see discussion again: it's not a snapshot, it's a movie. But what's it like there and what about it? What's behind those numbers? Whether that brings clarity and makes people think, I honestly wonder. You can also think: there is a whole number struggle, while the pretty obvious starting point is that vaccination makes a positive contribution to the fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u57	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u58	It's fine to name all of that, and we can find each other in it, but instead, we're going to have a whole discussion about who his fault is if you do end up in the hospital. I regret that and I think that is counterproductive. Couldn't the Minister have much more respect for people who make informed choices? Isn't that part of the fundamental right of physical integrity? Isn't it a much better message to say "I call on everyone in these circumstances to make a very informed and very informed choice"? Is it not the job of a minister not to put the people who do that away, but to respect them in their choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u59	That depends. Yes, of course I respect the freedom we have. We don't opt for vaccination in the Netherlands, do we? If you look at what obligations there are, then the Netherlands is also the mildest of all Western European countries towards conscientious objectors, doubters and so on. I think that fits our culture as well. You could say that, because we don't really like all kinds of state control. Well, I think your party's about set up for it! I think we can find each other there, too. So there is no compulsory form of vaccination. We're not gonna do that. Everyone has the freedom to say: I do not want to be vaccinated. But that freedom must be taken into account. So that freedom can never be non-committal. And the Minister of Health is the Minister of Public Health who must point out the implications of your free choice not to do it. He must point out that it is very unwise to use that freedom in such a way that you say: I will not do it. That's obvious, and I think that proves the facts from the hospital. Four out of five on the ic and three out of four in the hospitals: that's the situation, because they haven't been vaccinated. I believe that I should convey these facts as Minister of Health in order to stimulate people and make them think. "Shouldn't I, because I can't think of maybe it'll pass me by?" Surely everyone has a responsibility in a society to contribute to accessible care, to protecting yourself, to protecting others? That is a task that we have with each other as a member of that society. It is also up to politics to make that appeal to society, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u60	An appeal to everyone's responsibility, for which I sign, but also with the space to make their own choices. In the end, you will also have to respect them, because what is freedom ultimately worth when we say "you have freedom, but you have to do what we want"? Then it's not freedom anymore. There's got to be room in the end. It is also part of living together that we say at the end of the discussion: "People have thought about it. We have stimulated them to think carefully about it, but we also accept and respect that the outcome may be different from what we had in mind." Then it is time to live up to that solidarity. I think that it will quickly sink if we get into the atmosphere of: who is the fault of the fact that people end up in the hospital?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u61	I think we are somewhat different on this point, although perhaps we are closer to each other than you would suspect. Yeah, that freedom that stands. And I don't care about that freedom either. Only you have a sensible and responsible way of implementing that freedom and you have, given the facts that we now see in hospitals also an unwise and less responsible way of implementing that freedom. I believe that as Minister of Health, I have the task of reporting the facts and of appealing to the responsibility of people. That's one. Two is that I also have the task of protecting freedom. I think that is what I would like to give you, and frankly it is less difficult to respect a choice when it comes to conscientious objection, no matter how much I do not experience it and no matter how much I do not follow it. I find it less difficult to respect that than that there are people in those hospitals for the sake of disinformation or for denying the seriousness of the virus. Let's not pretend that all the people in the hospitals would be conscientious objectors. Then the Biblebelt should be much bigger than it is at the moment. Nor is it the case that if only conscientious objectors would not be vaccinated, care alone could become overloaded. It's not. I therefore appeal to everyone's responsibility to complete that freedom with understanding and responsibility. I would like to draw people's attention to what is clearly the sensible choice, but in the end I will always agree on the freedom of people to make a different choice. People also have the freedom to make unwise choices sometimes. That's true. Only it's my job to point that out to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u62	I'm very critical in another way. That Volt is for vaccination and that Volt embraces science, I think in the short time that we are here in the Chamber, has become known. Volt therefore finds it difficult. Vaccination alone is not a panacea. We have tried to make that clear from the outset. The basic measures should not have been abandoned. I said it in the previous debate, in which I referred to the Swiss cheese model. The basic measures have been abandoned. It was clear that there is a delusional immunity, that vaccination is decreasing and that at the moment, in general terms, everyone over 55 years of age needs a booster shot. I would ask the Minister, instead of going along with the other side of the Chamber, which I do not agree with, to take over even more of the WHO's opinions and to steer over the coming period to keep the infections low rather than on hospital capacity. I ask him to follow all the WHO's advice, including the Swiss cheese model, to keep his distance and to test. Denmark, for example, tests five times as much and therefore they have far fewer infections. It's time. We're not out of this pandemic. We won't be for a while. It's a different phase, but we can't let go of the basic measures. It just can't be. That is my question: does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you. I would like to say that next week we are having a debate on corona, precisely on the measures. I understand you wanted to say this, but I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u64	There has been a great deal of talk that I will respond to very briefly. First of all, it's not like everything's been released. That's one. And yes, it is true that additional measures need to be taken. That's two. Three: it is not the case that infections have not played a role in the degree of control. Of course, if you keep the infections low, you keep the resulting hospitalizations low. This has been the case throughout the crisis. There has been endless debate about this, even here in this house, and I am disturbed by all the semantics surrounding it, including in some reports. That's just wrong. It is really wrong that contamination should not have played a role in the measures we have taken. That's just not true. Then four: vaccination is the way out of this crisis. If everyone were to be vaccinated, we would have almost no covid patients in hospitals and care would not have become overloaded anyway and we could indeed let go of the measures altogether. Then Denmark. It's not like that's where the infections don't increase. Denmark has really abandoned all the measures. All of them. There the infections are increasing at the moment, where Denmark has a much higher vaccination rate than the Netherlands, especially among 50-plussers. That is of course very relevant, because they have a better chance of getting into the hospital. In short, we will have to increase the vaccination rate very much. Do we also need to take measures? Yes, but the main reason for wanting to take measures next week is because the vaccination rate is not high enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u65	Then, I think, the situation in Germany shows where fewer people have been vaccinated and 110 infections occur on 100,000 people, and in the Netherlands about double that, while we have a higher vaccination rate, there is a very clear contrast with the Netherlands as regards the release of the basic measures in basic places. I'm just gonna call them that. I have been in Italy and Germany this summer. You don't come into a grocery store without wearing a mouth cap and Italy doesn't come in without letting you temperature up. These are all recommendations from the WHO to ensure that those basic measures are respected in places where people are difficult to distance from each other. I haven't seen anyone in the Albert Heijn with a mouth cap in the last few days. In my opinion, we have really let go of the basic measures in many places in this country. If we now point the finger at the unvaccinated, then Germany should have more people infected, because they have a lower vaccination rate there. I applaud vaccines. I'd like to ask everyone to be vaccinated, but vaccinating is not a panacea. We need to keep doing more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u66	So vaccination is a panacea, I say for starters. Two. We will have to do more, precisely because people have not been vaccinated enough. Indeed, Germany has a much lower vaccination rate and the number of measures to be maintained in Germany is higher. This is becoming increasingly difficult at the moment. That is why you can see that the rate of infection in Germany is rising very rapidly at the moment. If we're gonna make international comparisons, we're gonna have to make them right. By the way, I very much agree with Mrs Gündoğan. We must once again face the fact that precisely because the vaccination rate is not high enough, we will indeed have to take a number of measures. Only what measures will be taken is the real dilemma. Just pulling what we've ever had out of the closet is getting harder. The question is whether this is proportionate and justified towards those people for whom measures would not necessarily be necessary. The question is also: how do you take measures that are effective and proportionate? That's the art. We are breaking our heads on this at the moment. We are advised by the Outbreak Management Team. We will have to come to a decision next week. I am, of course, counting on Volt's support, which we will need to carry out. The degree of acceptance of measures is becoming increasingly difficult in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u67	I'm gonna try to keep it short. As far as these basic measures are concerned, we are looking at European countries as a European party. We believe that these measures should never have been abandoned. With this high degree of vaccination, we could have been better placed. There's something else I want to say. There's something else that worries me, especially since the infections are increasing. It concerns the potential capacity in the border regions. I would ask you to come up with a plan for the deferred care, which is likely to increase even further, so that we quickly find a place for the estimated 200,000 operations that the NZa believe are overdue. I really think we should be much more careful in this pandemic. In part, we're just not gonna agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u68	I think about this part, because I want this deferred care to continue as much as possible. That is why we must take action again next week. We need to keep that regular care going as much as possible, much more than in the first, second or third wave. If we accept that the scaling up of the ic would actually have to go back to 1,700, then you will have to scale down much more regular care. We don't want that. Because we don't want to, you'll have to take additional measures sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u69	I have two urgent appeals to the Minister, whom I would like to give him before he makes any decisions, because then he might be able to take them with him. I notice that the Minister is very much looking at vaccination and sometimes less attentive to other things, which also work, in terms of the possibilities he has to control the number of infections. For example, we can see that at the moment two out of three infections occur in the home situation. My question to the Minister is whether he can have radio and television commercials broadcast as a matter of urgency, calling for proper ventilation, opening a window, in the home situation. If two of the three infections take place there, then I think we should do something with them to contain those infections. We have to do that in the short term, because we had 7,700 positive tests today. My other proposal is about the QR code. In addition, the vaccinee keeps his coronapas when he gets infected. Now we had the idiotic example of a gentleman who had only gone out and even taken the plane. It seems to me that we should remind you that if you're tested positive, you'll stay home and go into quarantine. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to emphasise that in his press conference. Of course, that QR code gives you false security. For that QR code, when the government says it's safe, while twenty vaccinated corp members are infected in Groesbeek, the government needs to be clearer in the communication that there is false security. If the catering industry increases from 1.6% to 4.3%, it would be better to require proper ventilation in the catering industry instead of a QR code. I have one brief comment to make. I notice that the Minister very often talks about 20% of the people on the ICIs being fully vaccinated. That's what he uses as motivation for the things he wants to propose. I would like to inform him that Professor Van Dissel explained the following to us during the last technical briefing. If you do not have a vaccine at any time, 0% is fully vaccinated in intensive care. But there will then be a shift to a moment when the large majority is fully vaccinated. That's what we see in Belgium. There is 55% on the ic fully vaccinated. In the United Kingdom, that is two thirds. So it's a matter of weeks before the Netherlands gets there. My request to the Minister is to take account of the fact that, according to Professor Van Dissel, the situation will change in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you. Of note, for they are messages that have been given and which I believe are also...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u71	I'm gonna have to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u72	I would ask the Minister to be really brief, because there are still a few questions about corona. After that, I really want to move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u73	I can imagine. It's my favorite, so I like the theme. But I can imagine, because next week we get to go again. You're right about the last point. It will shift over time. Only these are the facts now and so I share them. But you're just right. It will shift over time. I do not know enough about the international comparisons, but it can only be that in the Netherlands these figures are going to shift. Two: ventilation and the need to communicate about ventilation on a campaign basis. Consider it done. It's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. Then the QR and the home situation. I agree with your qualification about this gentleman, who was rather proud to say he'd been screwing around. I thought that was really weird. I thought it was a very strange way to be proud of yourself. But I don't understand the surprise about the system very well either. Of course, it's not like your QR code goes down when you're tested positive. If that were the case, we would have apparently kept a central database. Of course we do not, because that would involve all kinds of privacy violations, which we do not want. So we don't do that. In addition, I also think: make the comparison with, for example, a driving licence. Although you have a driver's license, you can't drive when you've been drinking. Your driver's license won't automatically expire if you tapped a bottle of wine one night. So we are really asking for something of the responsibility of people themselves, as you put it very well. We have to keep repeating, repeating again: if you are ill, you stay at home, even if you have been vaccinated. It doesn't matter at all. If you're sick, you stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u74	There was another question about ventilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u75	Very briefly, as the last contribution to the budget debate. I had asked if the Minister would be prepared to make very short-term radio and TV commercials about the home situation, where two out of three infections are currently taking place. It would be very good if we could get good radio and television spots about how we can get the infections down there using a window open and air through. It really has to come between people's ears that there are most infections there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u76	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u77	I think the answer might be "we're already doing that," but I'm going to look into that very precisely for you. I sometimes skip a day of radio or television, so I haven't seen it come by myself. But I think we've set up a very intensive campaign. In next Tuesday's letter, I will return to what kind of communication we are doing and whether it is in the form of radio and TV commercials.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u78	There is a short question from Mr Van Haga, and I would like to conclude on the subject of corona. One more question from Mr Van Haga and then from Mrs Simons on corona, and then we move on to the next issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u79	But we agreed that we would ask ten questions... I really want to keep them short, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u80	Sure. I'm sure you'll have the opportunity. I just want to say that next week we will also have a corona debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u81	I'm gonna keep it as short as I can, but I do have a few more questions. Why is a test only valid for 24 hours? That is very brief, as far as I am concerned. It's very annoying. It is also illogical, because vaccinees can of course be contagious. Belgium operates 72 hours, France 72 hours, Great Britain 72 hours, Germany 48 hours for an antigen test and 72 hours for a PCR test. You say we can't do this for more than 24 hours, because then the chances of getting contagious are too great. What are the chances and why can't we just join the countries around us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u82	Mr President, may I make a point of order? We've been talking about corona for over an hour now. Some questions I understand; they are topical. But we also have two corona debates next week. I think these are questions that can also be asked next week. In the VWS budget, there's an incredible amount of money, almost 100 billion. I find it rather complicated that we spend so much time here on corona questions, when we have a very important task, namely that as a Chamber we can properly control the VWS budget with so much money in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u83	I agree with you. I have asked colleagues a number of times, but colleagues are also concerned about their own content. One asks a number of questions about corona, the other about zoonoses, the other about homeless people. So it's hard to steer the content from this side, but I do appeal to you to be short and powerful and not to ask a lot of questions in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u84	A brief reaction to that. I'm in charge of my own input. It's right on the department of VWS where we've dislocated the whole society on the subject of corona and spent 80 billion on support packages. So it's very good that corona here, in this budget, is returning outbursts. So I would like an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u85	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u86	The answer is that this is the content of the advice of our experts. That answer has also been given to you several times. We have had a somewhat longer period of validity. In addition, the risk of contamination was too high. We saw that in the disco peak just before the summer. That's why we're very tight on those 24 hours. In fact, if I change it, I'll make it shorter and no longer. What other countries do in this respect requires other countries to know. I want the system we use, the 3G system, to reduce the risks as much as possible. The risk for non-vaccines is much greater than for vaccinees, including with this system. That's certainly not why I'm going to extend the test duration. I'm going to shorten it rather than extend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u87	I find that a very disappointing answer, because other respectable countries seem to be able to do so. I would like the Minister to give me the following undertaking. Then I would like to see the odds of 24 hours, 48 hours and 72 hours, because apparently the Minister has seen and calculated all of this. Then I'd like to see that, too, and then I'd be able to judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u89	Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u90	Wait a minute. That's another question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u91	I will see what is available at that point, but I believe you have everything I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u92	That is the answer that Mrs van der Plas has just been sent into the forest. I guess I just get it. If it's there, I'd like to have it again, because I don't remember ever seeing that differentiation. Then I have one last question, if you don't mind. It's about my adopted motion on the 180-day period of validity of the recovery certificate. Now there's a wonderful advice that says we're going to 12 months. Well, of course I don't agree with that, because I actually want indefinite time. Because if you have natural immunity, you're seven to eight times more protected than you are when you have such a reducing vaccine. Anyway, a quick question. Will this one-year period also be available retroactively for people who, for example, already had corona seven months ago and who now have no green check mark? Do they get a green check mark again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u93	I have also written a long time ago saying that I want to do so, that I am going to amend it, but that this also requires an adaptation of the European regulation. I am in the process of agreeing to this with colleagues, because if the Netherlands applies different standards in this respect than abroad, it may be that people at the border get into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u94	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u95	There is no one, no member of this Chamber, who is more looking forward to the forthcoming Corona debates than I am. And I very much agree with Mrs Westerveld: we are discussing the VWS budget here. Yet I have a question that is related to corona, especially to long covid. I asked the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport about the status of the research into long covid in the context of and under this budgetary procedure, namely: when can the victims be recognised of their problems? He replies that he is committed to research, support and recognition, that he recognizes from conversations with patients that recognition of the picture of long covid is of great importance and that he is aware that we are closely following developments regarding long covid. My question is: what exactly do people who now live with long covid, some of whom have had this answer for almost a year? What about specific instances like the UWV? Is lung covid recognized and recognized? Is there enough knowledge to provide these people with the care they need? What can they claim? That is my specific question. I would like a concrete answer to that under this budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u96	You do not believe it, but it is unfortunate that my next sub-block under corona is exactly long covid, because Mrs Paulusma has also asked questions about this. We've been doing support for long-term covid patients for a long time. I found it striking that when Mrs Paulusma spoke yesterday, you could just see how much long covid can hold people in his grasp. That, of course, is why you are calling for attention to be paid to this. Last year, before the summer, the motion of D66, among others, was filed to set up C-support. That's for patients who have lung covid symptoms, which is a very varied range of complaints, to help them as practically as possible, namely with good access to care, but sometimes also with good conversation with either UWV or the employer. So it's about work-related concerns. It is very practical help close to home, where you will find a listening ear and also have a practical guide to how to deal with care and support. That's one, C-support: incredibly important and wonderful work. I've been to work; it's really very beautiful. Two is that there is a lot more research to be done. That was also Mrs Paulusma's question. A lot of money has been set aside for research, because we don't know a lot of things yet. At the same time, as you probably do, I say that people cannot wait for research and the results of research. But it is important that we gain more knowledge. ZonMw opened the call for this. The extra money has been made available. That's what we're gonna do. It is also necessary to adopt a multidisciplinary directive, a health-related directive on how to deal with corona patients. That's just necessary. In addition, that was the point made by Mrs Paulusma. Long covid patients will increasingly need contact with peers, mutual contact. I can do better than that, I must say. By the way, C-support is already quite possible, but at the moment I am talking to various organisations, including the Long Fund, about how we could better organise that fellow lottery contact, namely better accessible and less fragmented. From the Ministry of Social Affairs there is additional effort in the field of employment support, such as grant for the programme COVID-19 and work of the Foundation Centrum Werk en Gezondheid. A wide range of subjects, because we are not finished with long covid for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u97	It is very good to hear that so much is already being done, especially when it comes to the contact of fellow fate. I can imagine anything that's important. However, my question remains: if I report to the UWV tomorrow because I can no longer work because of lung covid, will my illness be recognized? Do I have the right to all the financial compensation and facilities that we have designed for sick people in this country? I am very much looking forward to all those developments that are going to make it even better, which are going to make it even clearer, with even more focus on what lung covid patients actually need, but there are poignant stories of people who have been fighting not only the health problems they have, but also the practical conditions they face for more than six months, if not almost a year. I would very much like to confirm that more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u98	Very specific. The UWV looks at the degree of work restriction, so that is not so much on disease labeled. It is absolutely true that lung covid symptoms are not always so easily identified as such. So we need more knowledge about this. Then how will that knowledge become available? Among other things, through C-support. Even before we have done and completed all that research, we have to get to work and by getting to work you learn a lot of new things. What C-support does, therefore, helps us to talk to the UWV with those experiences under the arm. Very practical for people: if they apply for support via C-support, they can also be supported if there is a complicated conversation with an employer or with the UWV. So we offer very practical support and we are working to build up more knowledge, so that precisely the agencies that need to know this, including the UWV, have knowledge of the disease itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u99	I'm gonna try one more time. I'll report to the UWV tomorrow or my insurance company. I've got lung covid. I've had corona and I've gotten all kinds of complaints about it. I can only come to one conclusion together with my GP: this is the result of the fact that I had corona. In other words, this is long covid. Can I then trust that my insurer and the UWV together will ensure that I have an income and have the right to benefits, as well as all kinds of other patients, so people who suffer from all kinds of other medical conditions? Can I then trust that I can address my insurer to the responsibilities he has instead of having my insurer say to me: yes, we are all not sure yet whether this is because of it? I like it all: that research, that we're monitoring it, that we're getting better and better and that you can bring someone from a foundation when there's difficult conversations to be had. That's beautiful. But quite specifically: can I trust that the UWV and my insurer recognize, recognise, and therefore act as necessary my condition, long covid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u100	First of all, the insurer. You're just entitled to care. I don't know if it really concerns you, but people with long covid are just entitled to the care they need. That's not the point. It's an important part of just insured care, so that's not the point. All care that is insured for everyone is, of course, also insured for lung covid patients. We just had a whole discussion about the causes, the why. Whether you need certain care is irrelevant at all. If you need care, it's there for you. That's how insurance works. That's one. Two. When it comes to the accessibility of all kinds of schemes, there is of course no labeling of disease. They're looking at the work restrictions you have. That's how it's looked at. So here too, the why is not necessarily necessary. However, it is necessary to understand who is on the other side of the counter and why he has the complaints with which he walks under his arm. For that, more recognition and more recognition naturally helps. That's exactly why we're doing it this way, through two ways. First, we start the practical support via C-support. That's one. Two: more research. We're getting more knowledge from that research. These two experiences lead to an improvement in the knowledge and experience that people have in all kinds of evaluating bodies. I can't rule out the fact that if you report yourself with lung covid complaints at a counter, the person on the other side of the counter doesn't have a very good understanding of the why of the report. With so many counters in this beautiful country, I cannot completely rule that out. But I do know that we'll do what we have to do about it. Practical support and experience is provided through C support. That's one. And we're doing research. That's two. It both leads to an improvement in knowledge at the point of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u101	It was about me for a moment, so I'm curious about the Minister's response. I have also tabled an amendment concerning the professionalisation of this contact. I am very pleased with Mrs Simons' involvement, so I also invite her to support the amendment. I am therefore curious about the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u102	It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u103	I have just received a huge, bulky pile of amendments. I'm gonna go through them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u104	Yeah, should we do that at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u105	I understand your commitment to more peer contact. I share that, but I will take the amendment in a moment if you will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u106	It is the amendment in part No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u107	I'll see if I can freestyle now. Yes, I can. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. As has just been said, we are already in consultation with the Long Fund and other patient organisations on additional financial support, broadening the Corona Square to the broad target group complaints of long covid and organising physical fellow contact for long covid patients. It takes into account hard-to-reach target groups such as low SES groups and people with digitalism. This amendment supports that line. In fact, it provides extra money for that. That's why I support that line and leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u108	Then we go to the next theme, namely the theme varia. But that's what you've already started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u109	No, I really need to deal with one more topic under the cube of corona. These are the questions raised by Mrs De Vries, who normally come up in a corona debate not so much, but are very much part of a budget debate. Mrs De Vries spoke about everything to do on the subject of pandemic preparedness. We're going into the stage where we're drawing all kinds of lessons. You see all kinds of research coming up and of course we also have the evaluation of the OVV, which we focus on and where we hope to learn a lot from. For all these evaluations too, I think we can all agree that we would like to be better prepared for a next pandemic than we were prepared for the last pandemic, which we are still in the middle of. This means that we need to be more ready and that we need to be more agile in order to act quickly in the event of an outbreak. This also means that we have work to do on pandemic preparedness. I would like to mention a number of issues because Mrs De Vries also mentions them. It is very necessary to keep them in order and to develop them in a pandemic preparedness agenda. The first is the strengthening of public health: just the basis on order with the GGDs. You could say that we haven't had enough of them in recent times. We have not sufficiently enabled the health services to do their important work in the field of infectious disease control. That is why I would think: strengthening public health and disease control in the health services should be part of this work. By the way, more clarity in the way in which we direct the GGDs, helps in a great way. That is what I mean, for example, in terms of the same ICT. We have seen that this is very important in the context of pandemic preparedness. The second is the whole scalability of care capacity and the way in which we allow a clear and central direction and direction in times of crisis. I would really give my successor, whether I am myself or not, at a next pandemic, which I hope he or she will not have to deal with, the fact that there is a much easier and much more direct line of direction in everything related to care capacity. When it comes to managing the health services, when it comes to controlling the care capacity within the hospital, and when it comes to controlling the capacity outside the hospital, you really want to have a form of central control in such a pandemic, especially in such a crisis that concerns us. A little less polder can't hurt in a crisis. Anyone would redecorate a little more control and central control. By the way, it's all worked out. Just, the energy it costs... Well, let me put it this way: it turned out okay despite and not thanks to the system. Three is the security of supply. I think Mrs De Vries was right to say that we are far too dependent on all kinds of foreign countries for what we need for ourselves. Take the vaccines. That is, of course, a world-wide industry, so it is also logical that such a vaccine is produced on the basis of various subcontractors and production plants that are scattered around the world. But this can be the subject of geopolitics, and other countries can have a "own people first" strategy if the need is real, which means that the whole supply chain is interrupted. We can't let that happen again. This means that we must at least be able to retain our own pants in Europe in terms of security of supply, both in the case of vaccines and in the case of medicines. I hope that this can even be done to a large extent on Dutch soil, so that the Netherlands also makes a major economic contribution to the security of supply of devices and medicines. In short, I can only agree with you very much. I'll make one more point. You also made a comment about the national healthcare reserve. Of course, this has everything to do with the scalability of care. That's the kind of element we've already started with. A whole pandemic preparedness agenda is currently being drawn up on the way to the end of the year. I hope to inform you of this just before or just after the end of the year. I hope that by then I will also have something of an evaluation which would enable us to take further steps. Now I'm really going to go to the block of varia. Mr President, the great thing is that you have already heard a number of issues about it, because Members have raised them earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u110	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u111	To reassure you, it is only a shift from the block of amendments to the subject of pandemic preparedness. In fact, I had tabled an amendment to that very subject. In the written reply, I have already seen that the Minister has discouraged that amendment. That is why I would like to come back to this because he says that at the end of the year, the first guidelines for the policy agenda are available to strengthen the pandemic preparedness of the Netherlands. My concern is that the coming year, if you're not careful, is a lost year in taking steps to strengthen pandemic preparedness. Hence the amendment. Suppose concrete steps should be taken, for example, for training places and the like. Well, then there's no finances for that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u112	This is about the amendment to item No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u113	Ah, great, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had, of course, seen the amendment. Then I thought, "What a big amount of money." And then I thought, "Oh, my God, that cover." At that time I also thought: we have already allocated a lot of money in the budget so that we can at least get a start. Before that start, people are being recruited. For example, we are already in the process of setting up the rural facilities that must be able to take over the management of the GGDs in times of an A-disease. We are already working on those types of elements. In the meantime, we're gonna work out that agenda. At the moment, it is very difficult to estimate how much money is involved. At least it's not a small beer. It really is serious money, even more serious and bigger than the amendment says, I think. So for the start we need, we have already allocated sufficient resources to the budget. For the answer to the question of how much we really need, I should first have the working agenda in order to be able to weigh that properly. I am very quick to look through my stack, but I see that the amendment in part No. Twenty-one isn't in there. Couldn't it be a different number, Mr. Chairman? Or is 21 with a colleague, maybe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u114	No, it's really 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u115	In itself, the Minister gave a good summary of what he had already indicated in his written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u116	Consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u117	Sure. That is why the magazine is not even necessary to continue our exchange of views. My point remains. It is indeed a first step in my opinion. A much larger amount has been mentioned by GGD GHOR. But I do hear that the money that is now available is precisely not for this structural strengthening and that the danger is threatening. I would like to hear a further response on that point now or later. How do we prevent a hole from falling? And isn't it necessary now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u118	I understand very well what Mr Van der Staaij has to say about this. That reaction of the GGD was in my opinion also towards the formation or the formation table. Let's just leave that there for a while. This is about being able to make a start, while we do not yet fully know what is needed for much stronger pandemic preparedness than we have now. People need to be recruited for this and you need to have money on the budget, otherwise you can't recruit people. That is why we are putting this series in the budget. We can make a start, but that's what it is. If we wanted to turn it into some kind of Delta Works, it would really require more than is currently in the budget. How much space there will be depends on the assignments we get from the formation table, which is one, and on the content that will put the pandemic preparedness agenda on the mat, that's two. I would therefore advise against this amendment by Mr Van der Staaij. We're gonna make that start with that agenda. Let us speak again when that agenda is ready and then do what is necessary. My experience is that at Corona we have never been reluctant to release the resources that are simply needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u119	Finally. I understand what the Minister is saying, but I am responding precisely to the GGD GHOR's message that it has also become more extensive in the media, that more is needed in the coming years, but also that there will be too little on the budget for the coming year to start this structural strengthening. There's still a discrepancy there. We do not need to vote on it right away, but I would like to suggest to the Minister that he consult with the GGD GHOR on this, to see whether that is true and whether it is not necessary to put more on the budget for these training places for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u120	Yes, of course I would like to consult with the GGD GHOR, if only because an important element of the work agenda for pandemic preparedness involves strengthening the basis of disease control in the GGD. People will have to be trained for that, I understand that very well. In fact, we must avoid unnecessary delays in this respect. I'm going to have that consultation, but that does mean I'm still betraying this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u121	Perhaps I have not heard it or the Minister has said it very gently, but I am assuming that pandemic preparedness is also a European matter. I'm curious about the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u122	You have indeed heard it or not, or perhaps I have said it very quietly or in an intermediate sentence. It is about the security of supply of medicines, of vaccines, to ensure that we have a European production chain, so that we as a Europe can be self-sufficient in the field of all the stuff you might need in healthcare. There is a very nice European initiative in the pipeline, which is called HERA. We've talked about this before. My commitment towards European colleagues is also always to support the full-fronted Hera initiative to ensure that it is implemented quickly. We do have questions about governance, about the exact scope of Hera's mission, but we draw it and are enthusiastic about it, because we think it should be done. Apart from HERA, I think that the Dutch activities should be linked to the various production plants that need to come somewhere and to the distribution of the assignments resulting from HERA. Then I hope that they will choose the Netherlands, as they have chosen the Netherlands for the EEA. EEA, ECDC and HERA should be the trinity of the European institutions that strengthen the European Health Union. That is the idea at the moment, and we wholeheartedly support it, with all kinds of comments and nuances. Then I'll go to the last block: varia. I've already done a number of topics, and I've only got a few left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u123	My request is that this be done in a really short and forceful manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u124	Yeah, you can. First of all, the GP consultation. I should have responded to that in an earlier block. So I'm just gonna do that now. The SP asked for this, but also the PvdA asked for it. What we want is for the general practitioners to continue with what they are doing now, because we know that the experiences are good. For general practitioners it is already possible to schedule a longer consultation for patients for whom this is necessary. Pilots have been set in motion, and partly completed, to encourage the use of the opportunity to provide longer consultations. The lessons from these pilots are currently being used and rolled out in the regions where these longer consultations were relatively rare. The pilots are there, the pilots have been used and it has been ensured that those longer consultations are actually rolled out in the regions where it is most needed. I don't think there's any reason to extend the consultations generically. You can't just do that. That is also because of the money, but not only because of that, because in general it would indeed be very much more expensive. The point is, if we were generically extending all the consults, we'd be short of general practitioners to help the same number of patients. And finally, it is again a limited group of patients for whom this actually has added value; that does not apply to everyone. In short, what we want to do is continue the evaluation and continue the roll-out of the lessons, so that in all regions the general practitioners will actually make use of the possibility of extending the consultation, which is already possible for the patients for whom this is also necessary. "For whomever" that is necessary, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u125	What we see now is the classic mistake of thinking that is made every time in the care. If we want to make the consultations longer with the general practitioners, the Minister says: yes, why should we do that; of course that costs way too much money. The general practitioners say: no, just by giving us a little more time for the patient, we save a lot of money for the care, because if we can continue talking about where complaints come from, all these people will no longer have to be referred to the hospital and not take that medicine; in this way we can make more complaints before people go to the hospital. The general practitioners simply ask for a payment title, so that the longer consultation can be applied nationally. This is precisely how they relieve hospital care and thus reduce the cost of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u126	No misunderstanding: I share that. I am merely saying that this does not require a generic extension of the consultations, but that this requires the possibility for general practitioners to write out a double consultation if they think it is necessary for the patient they have in front of them. That possibility is already there. That's one. And two: we saw that this possibility was underutilized in a number of regions. That's why pilots have been set up to see how you could expand that. Some of these pilots have already been evaluated and some of them are still being evaluated. The lessons are already being learned and the pilots are already being rolled out in the regions where they are lagging behind. One of the elements learned from these pilots is that it is sometimes difficult for the general practitioner to make that type of arrangement in a good way, for example with the insurer. That's one of the lessons from those pilots. And that's what they're working on. In short, I think we agree. It's work in progress. And yes, indeed, if you do it for the good group, then it can indeed prevent heavier care. So it can just be great help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u127	Let's make a correction. A double consultation lasts twenty minutes, but is requested for a consultation of fifteen minutes. That's one. Two. There are already results of pilots, but now only 118 general practitioners are involved, while in the Netherlands there are 5,000 practices. Is it not possible to scale up at least in certain areas of interest? I understand you're not rolling this out nationwide right away, but a scaling-up should be possible anyway. It's gonna need a lead time after all. The effects are there. There are positive results. The first evaluations are there. Now only a very limited group can participate. We really think this can be scaled up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u128	Keep me for the better; I wouldn't be against it, not at all. If you want to make that proposal, I would even like to go along with it. I believe there are seven projects in total. You say that around 100 general practitioners are involved. My only point is that at the moment I do not know what reason it is limited to these general practitioners and these projects. Is there a financial reason for this, for example? Or is the way we run that pilot not gonna get it manned or something? I just don't know. So I'd like to work on it to see if we can scale it up a little faster and firmer. I do think that we should want to learn lessons from these pilots and also to go ahead with those lessons. Of course, you are not opposed to this either, but you say: do not wait until you have had the very last evaluation to put it a little bit wider. I'd like to see how we could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u129	I like to grumbling, but I see an opening here. I cannot estimate exactly what scale, what amount, it should be, but it does not require an amendment, because I have a motion in preparation for a national roll-out. Maybe the SP has something lying around and we'll do it together. But if we can arrange for some of the scale and we can find out together what that would mean in terms of cost, I am more than willing to table the motion to that end, so that this arrangement can be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u130	Let me also think about it on the way to the second term and ask for a moment what is the obstacle at the moment to scaling it up a little faster. I just don't know. I really need to check that out. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna move on to the block of varia. A number of members referred to the financial management on VWS. I get that, because it's a big and important theme. I would also like to say a few things about this, because when that conversation is held, it is often said that 5 billion is either lost or lost or whatever, but you know that this is not the case. 5 billion is the whole amount spent on the fight against corona in 2020. That's one. Two. Yes, when we had to act very quickly in this crisis, for example, the procurement rules have sometimes not been followed. That's right. There is also sometimes a lack of proper record of why there would have been an urgent issue, for example. That's right. This, of course, leads to unlawfulness in its assessment. Another thing is that, of course, in the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber, it is very relevant that in part, at about 2 out of 5 billion, for example, we were already doing the expenses before the Chamber had mandated those expenses. Then there is formal budgetary injustice and conflict with the Compatibility Act. The Court of Auditors has made a sharp and critical report on this. I think that's right. By the way, it was just as right, I would say, that at the time we put the speed of action above the last correctness of the administration, but I do think 2021 should look better in terms of accountability than 2020. I say honestly: I think that in 2021 some of the legal errors from 2020 will continue. I say that with little joy. I'm just saying that because I see that it is. We're doing an incredible amount to improve the whole legitimacy. We also have a lot of work to do in the financial management of the corona expenditure in particular, but I think it will not go smoothly. I hope it will be better than in 2020. One example: informing Parliament on time. That's what we're trying to do very precisely. I believe that this year you have already had 12 isb's, incidental supplementary budgets. We are doing this on purpose to ensure that, at least on formal budgetary law, we comply with the Compatibility Act. We are also trying to get management in order, because there is a lot of work to be done. Completely spotless it will not appear in 2021. That is what we are going to debate again at all these moments. We will continue to inform you in accordance with the motion Sneller filed. Then I have one final question about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mrs De Vries, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u132	The fact that there is good financial management at the Ministry may not be a very sexy subject, but I think it is crucial. Last time we discussed it extensively in the annual report. I also think that we should continue to follow it critically as the House of Representatives. So I am glad that there is another report from the Audit Service, but I am a little nervous when I read that story. I think there are also a number of simple things in it, because I think something like EUR 3.5 billion was probably illegal again, because the justification for why it is urgent is not good. I think that would be relatively easy to solve. I wonder what the bottlenecks are in the Ministry, because additional officials are also attracted to settle this properly. It's community money, and we just have to spend it in a good way. It must also be clear what we are spending it on. Especially if it is urgent and there is already money being spent in anticipation of the approval of the Chamber, I think that support should be really top.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u133	That's absolutely true. I can only agree with Mrs De Vries. For the sake of urgency, you may need to act. With regard to budgetary law, i.e. the Compatibility Act, we have to ensure that the Chamber is informed in good time. By the way, no department can make it to 100%. I believe that we are now at 98%, but the sport is to get as close to 100% as possible. That's one. Two. It is also about another method of timely motivation, namely whether or not you use urgency, so you would not have to tender. I really think that is a matter of basic management. If you're right to use an emergency, you don't have to spend. Then you have to motivate yourself at least now; last year we really had an excuse, but now we don't, I think you don't do a tender for a good reason. It may still happen that you urgently have to contract something.............................................................................................................................................................................. The point with that legality is that you can't motivate afterwards why you didn't tender a month ago. That's a non-repairable mistake. The audit service found a number of errors and said that part of the management is still not good enough in 2021. I honestly say to you, Mr President, that is what I wrote to you in the letter, that I can no longer fix it if it concerns this mistake. Sometimes you can fix it. Sometimes, when it comes to putting a file in order, it can be repaired, but not all mistakes can be repaired. But it's just not good. That is why we have just adopted additional people for financial management. In the meantime, I believe that the counter is 16 fte extra ones who properly monitor the control mechanisms in the department. That's what's needed. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm actually just at the end, because I've had all the other questions from the varia block, I see. Yeah, we can have lunch!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u134	I would like to look at Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u135	I asked a question about the healthcare pay. There is 675 million available for salaries. We see that this mainly goes to higher incomes: people who earn twice as much as twice as much and work in health care receive money, and people with the lowest incomes get no money. To give you an example: if you are helping or caring and you earn €13 per hour, you have a net income of €1,800. An average rental house in Utrecht alone costs €1,300. You just see that we should meet much more in the basic needs of people who work in care, especially those on lower incomes. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u136	I have just had this debate with Mr Hijink, in any case, in an interrupting debate. We had this debate very, very, very extensive in a general discussion a few weeks ago. On the contrary, I think it is a really good idea to see if we can use the extra money we make available on top of the oval contribution, which is available anyway to conclude a good collective agreement, to close the gap with the other collective agreements in the public sector and the market sector. That's been investigated. A number of passages are also devoted to this in the ESC opinion. This opinion included a study which also showed that, particularly in the medium-sized sectors, the gap with the market and other salaries in the public sector is greatest. The additional 675 million for next year, which is structuralally above the 1.6 billion already available, therefore offers employers and workers in the care the possibility, in particular for those mid-scales, of entering that gap with the rest of the sector in order to do something extra. That's very nice. What is also true, of course, is that there is a need for a good collective agreement for everyone in the care at all. And that is exactly what the sector is trying to do at the moment, at least. It's not easy, but it has to be. So I think this has been a legitimate choice. It was the task of the General Political Reviews and we have given substance to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u137	Indeed, we see a gap between what the market offers and what the government offers. We also see a gap precisely in the lower incomes, at the lowest incomes. You can also look at another major problem, namely staff shortages and scarcity. On the contrary, we can see that the deficits in the worst paid sectors are greatest in the care sector. That's nursing care and home care. We also know that pay does play a part. It is not the only element, but it plays a part in making working in care more attractive. I shall now start again, because we do not yet have the solution to this problem. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the most important thing is that people at the bottom of the incomes that work in the care sector are indispensable and that we should take good care of it. We're understaffed. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again: if he looks through these glasses and has this amount available, should we not make another choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u138	No. On the contrary, I am very much in favour of the choice that has been made, because I think that is a very sensible choice and because that is precisely what the ESC has said we should do. Of course, we asked the ESC: what is there to do to make working in healthcare more attractive? At that time, the ESC had another agency investigate it. I've just lost the abbreviation. The other has had that research done and has also said that this research has shown that wage developments are actually very similar to wage developments in the market sector and in the public sector. That's exactly the effect of that oval-systematic as we have it. So that's actually a very good system, except for one thing. This is because we see that the medium-sized economies are lagging behind the rest of the public sector and the market sector. So if you want to offer a solution, you want to offer a solution! So what we are doing for next year is exactly what needs to be done. You offer the sector as a whole the opportunity, just the space, to conclude a good collective agreement. In particular, the social partners must make any choice which they consider important. If that means that the specialists get a little less and the lower incomes get a little more: fine, I would think. Do it! But that's really at that table. That's not up to us. And what we did next is that we enable employers and employees to tackle that problem that is actually there. We enable them to catch up with the rest of the market and the rest of the public sector. Not quite, but to be able to take a good step. I think that's fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u139	What I see, above all, is that people who do very valuable work, whether you are mentoring in disability care or helping and caring on the night shift, are struggling to pay their rent. Those people are having trouble getting by on a basic level. I believe that as a Chamber we have an expensive duty to take good care of people who work in care. If I had to make the choice, I'd rather spend money on people who struggle with everyday life while doing very valuable work for us, than give people who earn twice as much as they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u140	That is strange, because when the amendment was discussed here during the General Political Reviews, that was not the input, not even from GroenLinks. Then it was about the cover. It was then a motion, not an amendment. But it wasn't about the choice made with that motion. That's one. Secondly, it is not about high incomes. I really want to fight that. It's just about all the middle-of-the-road salaries in health care. If I had to refer to that in collective agreement terms, I think it would be fwg 35 to fwg 65. Those are the professions you call them. That's exactly the chaperone. That's just the nurturing one. That's the nurse. That is precisely the group that we should also be supporting. In short, it is a good choice, it is a right choice, it is in line with the SER report, it is in line with the investigation that has been done and it is an answer to the motion that the Chamber itself has adopted by majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u141	I would like to make a point of order, because these are factual inaccuracies. If you look at the scales, you can see that in the scales 10 to 20 there are a lot of people doing valuable work. These are caregivers, helpers, counselors in, for example, disability care; I mentioned it. All these people literally don't get anything, dude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u142	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u143	From scale 35 people get money. The point I'm trying to make is that people who do very valuable work, and we can't lose, aren't gonna get anything. It's choosing in scarcity. I ask this Minister to choose precisely for the people in the care that we, and that extra contribution, need most.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u144	I think it's good to be real precise. We must first tell each other that everyone in care is doing valuable work. Let's not put one against another when it comes to valuable work. You do not mean to do that either; I do not want to do that either. That's one. Two is that it's about very simple middle wages in care. It's not about high wages, it's about middle wages in care. Three is that we don't have nothing else at our disposal. We have pay space available for everyone, so that there can be a good wage development. We only have extra money on top of those wages that the ESC says, and on which research shows, that there is a deficit in relation to the market sector. As to how the basic space is then distributed at the collective agreement table, one can make any choice that one considers to be fair. We do not need to do that for the collective bargaining partners, but we do not need to solve their problem. If one thought it fair to allow lower incomes to benefit much more from basic space, which is 1.6 billion, than high incomes, then I would say: be my guest. Maybe that's a very sensible solution. But that's really up to collective bargaining. In any case, we have made it possible for these collective bargaining parties to make additional wage developments at the top of middle wages, where the gap with the market and with the public sector is greatest. How the basic space is used and used is really for social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party. I think that Mr Hijink wanted to say a few words on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u146	Also because it was our motion, together with the Christian Union, I think it is important how we stand as SP. We believe, like GroenLinks, that the money should reach the people who need it most. If I hear the Minister correctly, he actually says: it is ultimately up to the social partners, the unions and the employers to decide how that money is spent. This can also be done by doing exactly what Mrs Ellemeet says, namely by allowing the people who work in the care sector and who earn the least to benefit from the total pot that has now been made available for additional money. If the Minister wishes to confirm that, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u147	No, it's lightly different. The oval space available, the 1.6 billion, can be spent to your heart's content. Anything can go to low incomes; that's up to them. What we have put on top of that has been put on top for a certain reason, namely that we would like to run into something in relation to the market sector and the other public sectors. Why do we want to do that? Because the ESC has said in the opinion that it is nice that you see that wage developments have actually followed the market and the public sector very steadily in recent years. You can also see that this is the case in the past cabinet period alone. That is because it is a sort of automation that the cabinet also makes average wage developments available to care every year, so that good agreements can be made. But at one point it deviates. You can see that there is a lower reward in the middle scales than in the rest of the pay scales. The Economic and Social Committee opinion has put forward a number of options to address this issue. The motion also referred precisely to one of those possibilities. In this way, the cabinet has also taken charge of the execution. So we have put another 675 million on top of the 1.6 billion in available wage space. Why is that a good idea? The oval space may be spent to your heart's content. But this has to respond to the additional problem that had been identified. In doing so, we are really doing exactly what the sector needs and whatever the ESC opinion puts on the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u148	Then I will stress once again that, as far as the SP is concerned, it is precisely the group in the care that deserves the least that should improve. I will make a proposal later to make extra money available for this. That 675 million is just a very small first step. That is what we stressed at the time. We will also be proposing to finance this from the profit tax. There is still a lot to do and the money is there, so we will propose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u149	Thank you. Then Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few hours ago, we were talking very briefly about zoonoses. You indicated at that time that I was so steadfast in repeating that subject. So that's what I'm gonna do. In my own term Tuesday night, I talked about the dangers of the avian flu virus. I am disappointed, I say in all honesty, with the answer given in writing and with the phrase: 'I have taken note of the recent news about the avian influenza virus'. We know that this avian flu virus is already in the Netherlands and has cost more than 800,000 animals their lives, and also that a growing number of people in China are probably running around with a mutating variant of the virus. Then I can only imagine that this minister, knowing that he wants to prevent another pandemic, is doing more than just taking note of the news about this avian flu virus. I would like a response from the Minister of VWS and I do not want to be referred to LNV and to what the Minister of LNV is doing. We know that. In the past year, her contributions have not yet helped bring down the avian flu virus. I am particularly interested in his view of the situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u151	However, I am going to disappoint you on that point. You know the reaction of my colleague from LNV. It is really LNV's colleague who is first of all at the time when the avian influenza virus occurs somewhere and measures must be taken which are deemed appropriate in the situation in question. They were taken, too. In this respect I have taken note of that, but it is really the colleague of LNV who then has the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u152	I'm gonna say it again. It's about the avian flu virus. We've never had a lock-up duty this long in the Netherlands. It had just been abolished and is being re-established. The virologists often warn us about the growing problems in China surrounding the avian influenza virus, which also manifests itself in the Netherlands. They're warning you about public health. We've had the same measures from the Ministry of LNV for a year. We know they haven't helped keep this virus underneath so far. They're not working so far. They are measures to try to prevent the virus from spreading further when it is detected. So they're not helping to prevent it. Then I find it really too little when the VWS Ministry says that it is only following LNV's actions at the moment, while we know what risk this could be, also with a view to preventing a new pandemic. Then I find only knowledge from this ministry too little. I'm worried too. The Bekedam report contains specific recommendations, including with regard to poultry farms in the Netherlands. They're not being put so clearly in there for nothing. We see the consequences of the risks now before our eyes. Then I want a reaction from this ministry and not just from LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u153	I would like to say something about effectiveness. I believe that the measures will help to combat an outbreak when it is there. That's what you have to do. That is also what we can be expected to do. That is what Mr Schouten is doing. She'll tell the room about that. I think that's how it works. When I write that I have been informed about it, you should not read it as a form of: it is quite so. No, of course you will be informed, but we also note that the measures taken are adequate. Secondly, you say that the VWS Ministry should also be interested in preventing diseases and the prevention of zoonoses. I just gave you that answer. That's what I think. You might want to do more with that. If you weren't convinced of that, you can be sure of that after the last pandemic. It may not be the last zoonoses we'll experience. In fact, there is hardly any virologist who reassures us on this issue. So assume there will be more. Also assume that the Netherlands, not only the Netherlands, but also the Netherlands, will have to do more to prevent this. So we're going to have to get to work on that. You've already had the first reaction to Bekedam's report. There is a hearing in mid-November and before the end of the year, I thought, we will send you a plan of action. You've already been promised that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u154	That's right. We are, of course, waiting in great impatience for that further reaction with regard to the preparation of Bekedam's report. The measures taken in the event of an outbreak of the avian influenza virus shall be taken at the time the virus is already there. So they're not working enough. I repeat that in the Netherlands there are mutations of the avian influenza virus all year round. In China, it already jumps from animal to human. So we are already in a phase where the possibility of preventing it is almost over. I really want to make sure that there are no taboos from the VWS ministry to deal with zoonoses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u155	If I say yes to that, it means that everything is allowed. I know a little bit about what Mrs. Van Esch is after. Then I would like to say that I still want to leave a few farmers in the Netherlands here and there, if you know what I mean. I'm not gonna say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, there are always other interests that play. But in this case, public health is at the forefront of our zoonoses structure. You know that. You're behind that, too. The agriculture and the built environment, so the inhabited environment, are close together. At that point, we may have a number of things to do. It's possible. If it is not for reasons of zoonoses control, it may be for reasons of nitrogen. The fact that we in the Netherlands have to relate better to the nature we have is true. That is true for many reasons. That will certainly be a job for the next cabinet. But that doesn't mean that for that reason you have nothing else to consider. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u156	Thank you. You have already given an appreciation in writing of many amendments. There are five amendments that you have not yet appreciated. Maybe it's okay to treat only those.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u157	You call them, because frankly, I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mrs Pauluma's amendment to item No. 32 you've already done. It concerns the amendments tabled in respect of item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution. 26 and in item No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u159	I have the amendments to item No. 8, in part No. 11 and in part No. So 23 already done? I have here the amendment tabled by Mr Van Houwelingen to item No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u160	Yeah, that amendment, for example. Of that, you must give an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u161	I would advise against that amendment. In fact, I can simply refer to the exuberant discussion about salaries in health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u162	Okay. The amendment in part No. 31 is not recommended. Here's one more thing. The amendment in part No. 32 had judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u163	Yeah, that amendment had judgment room. I just said that. Then we have the amended amendment to item No. 34. That is the amendment aimed at control. That was actually the follow-up to the committee debate we had a few weeks ago. You have already tabled and announced this amendment and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u164	The appreciation of the amendment to item No. 34 had already given you. That was Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u165	Exactly, that was judgment room. Then we have the amendment to item No. 35.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u166	Yeah, I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u167	I'd advise against that. I think I'd already done that in writing. Isn't that right? I can therefore skip that amendment. Then I have the amendment to item No. 36, by Mrs Simons. I would advise against that amendment. The amendment calls for a Triage Gender Care Test Garden, in which a task force of gender care providers and representatives of patient organisations prepares a triage protocol. However, the way in which the caregivers provide their care is therefore not an area in which the public authorities engage. That's really up to parties in the field. I have instructed ZonMw to evaluate the current quality standard transgender care in the somatic field together with parties in the field. I asked for specific attention to be paid to the role of the psychologist in the indication and to the suggestion that triage criteria should be introduced and to see whether the quality standard should be adjusted accordingly. If, as part of this evaluation, parties agree that triage contributes to good transgender care, they can work together to further develop it and become part of the adapted quality standard. That's just how quality standards work at all. A separate route that would also run, actually runs through that process of evaluation. I don't think that's a good idea. Furthermore, there is insufficient coverage on Article 2, but that is more the technical side of it. Finally, the indication for transgender care is part of the Zvw-funded care and not of the VWS budget. That is the part of the premium and not the part financed by the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u168	I would ask for a second-term response to the amendments, because there are a lot of amendments. I can imagine that a number of other colleagues might also have questions or comments. We shall then go to Mrs Den Haan's amendment to item No. 26 on respite blowers. It may be for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u169	You wouldn't think so. I just don't have that amendment in my set. Maybe that amendment can be presented, folks. I know you're watching, I'll just tell the official support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u170	That's what's coming. In the meantime, I have a question about the amendment to item No. 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u171	I've got that right in front of me. I would have stayed with the amendment to item No. 38. That's about releasing a million dollars for psychosocial care in cancer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u172	That was the amendment tabled by Mrs De Vries and Mrs Van der Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u173	That is where I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. I want to say a few things about it. Strengthening the connection between formal and informal care is extremely important, even when it comes to caring for cancer patients. As far as formal care is concerned, there has been considerable improvement. I would like to leave out all that is about it, but the quality standard mentioned makes recommendations that can be taken up at regional level. Within the Langer Home programme, it is one of the goals to strengthen the cooperation between formal and informal care, for example through the programme Together Safe Ageing and the national approach Together Strong for care. In that context, I see this amendment and I can leave it to the Chamber to decide. I have just received Den Haan's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u174	That is the amendment to item No. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u175	That amendment in part No. 26 supports the ongoing policy on family care and underlines the importance of encouraging parties to provide good grace care. An important recommendation in the opinion we have already had is the appointment of local reprieve hunters. Since 2020, the national advisory team Mantelzorg for municipalities has been working on behalf of the VNG and MantelzorgNL. Each municipality also receives a care centre, for which municipalities receive funds through the general decentralisation allowance. So I just don't think it's a good idea to have another respite coordinator on top of that. It is more of a technical point and I think it is always faint to use it as the only argument, but it has been proposed to remove it from the non-legally compulsory area of Article 1. However, it must remain available for the corona control. So there's room, but I really want to keep it available for the corona control. Therefore, not another coordinator on top of the already existing coordinators and the financial and technical reasons, I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u176	Then there's another amendment that just came in. That is an amendment tabled by Mrs Tellegen in respect of Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 39 on means of palliative care. We need to get an appreciation on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u177	I have seen the amendment, but do you mind if I take a look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u178	If it doesn't work, it's fine to do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u179	I did get the appreciation! Excuse me, I thought I only got the amendment myself. I don't think we need to convince each other of the importance of good palliative care. That public campaign, along with the field parties, has been. The aim of the campaign was to raise awareness in people and in patients of the importance of timely attention to possible palliative care. This campaign resulted, among other things, in the website www.overpalliativezorg.nl. For professionals this is palliaweb.nl. Those two sites are very important for all information. In view of this, I should like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. Then I think I'm at the end of my term. All the amendments are appreciated, as far as they are currently tabled. I think I've answered the questions further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u180	Excuse me, I thought you were the amendment to part No. 33 still had to appreciate, but that's for the Secretary of State. I just got a question about that. I would like to thank the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport for his comprehensive answer. I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment and then give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u181	The next item is the debate on the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport, and I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try to be even shorter than the Minister in my answer. Please consider: last year there were three directors here. I would like to say something about that, because it is quite special. We are now having a debate on the VWS budget for the fifth time in this cabinet period. This is the first time we've been expelled. A lot of things tell you that, too. But it's the first time we've been here together. At least for a moment I'm standing here all alone, but there are two of us here, and that gives me reason to reflect on the departure of Tamara van Ark. I would like to thank her for her commitment, for her love, for her great commitment, commitment and expertise. And I want to wish her strength from this place on her further recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u183	Mr. Chairman. I want to start with a very brief introduction, and when I say "short," it is short. I only have four cubes to answer after that. This is first and foremost prevention and lifestyle, second, homelessness, third, ggz/mental health and fourth, disability policy. I should also like to point out in abundance that all the questions have been answered in writing, of course, but I would like to go into a number of points in my answer. Mr. Chairman. When I look back at the debates that we have had here, not only the budgetary debates, but all the debates over the last four years, I notice how often we talk about 'vulnerable people'. In debates, we often mean people with psychological complaints, people who are homeless and homeless, people who struggle with addiction or debt, or people who struggle with severe overweight. But most of the time we talk about other people, not ourselves. I think that over the last year and a half, we have been pushed with our noses: we are all vulnerable. You and me, everyone. That new virus could hit anyone. You could lose your lover. Your case has to be closed. You have to sit behind your laptop at home, whether or not with a cat that walks by in the picture, lose contact with others: life is not fixable, for no one. I hope we have learned something from this difficult period, namely that we need each other and want to be ready for each other. We need each other's respect and commitment, and people also need help to get back to life as much as possible. The motto of all my work here for the past four years has always been: everyone must be able to participate. Mr. Chairman. Even if this crisis hits us all, if you're already standing with your ankles in the surf and there's a big wave coming, you'll be flooded rather than when you're high and dry on the beach or in a beach tent. We can all get sick because of corona, but some people are more at risk because they already have health problems. Homelessness can affect all of us, but if you're already in the problematic debt, a crisis can push you just over the edge. The isolation and loneliness of the lockdown touched us all, but was often harder on young people than we initially thought. They were affected not so much by physical complaints, but by mental complaints. Those three things: lifestyle, homelessness and mental health are important issues that we need to keep working on. We can only do that if we do it together, knowing that what happens to another can happen to ourselves and that our vulnerability connects us together. I think it's okay if we keep realizing that. That was my general introduction. Now I'm gonna get to my cubes. Mr. Chairman. My first block is about prevention and lifestyle. As part of a profit warning: that is also my longest block in text. I noticed that the subject of lifestyle and prevention has been identified in their input by almost all spokesmen. I think that's really different than it was four years ago. Then that was much less prominent in the picture. There has really been a broad movement, both socially and politically. I think that's a win, and I think most of the spokesmen here agree with that. Corona has pushed us extra hard on the facts. People who were overweight and chronically ill were more likely to end up in hospital with corona. Many of these conditions are related to smoking, unhealthy eating, too much alcohol and overweight. In particular, they are people with practical training and low incomes who are at the shortest possible conclusion. They live six years shorter on average and they face health problems almost fourteen years earlier in their lives. We heard the examples of Groningen and Rotterdam, where you can see the health differences almost by bus or metro stop. Speaking of the opportunities where we can save a bit: an unhealthy lifestyle is also responsible for almost 20% of the disease burden, for over 35,000 deaths and 9 billion healthcare expenditures per year. Mr. Chairman. If we take this together with the major challenges set out in the "Care for the future" discussion paper, then it is clear that a change is needed to keep care good, affordable and organizeable. A change that starts with lifestyle and health promotion. It is also clear to many of us that the time of no commitment is over. We cannot insist on the importance of prevention at talk-show tables, in articles of opinion and here in this Chamber or in other places without going through with measures that experts know are going to help us in concrete terms. Not words but deeds, I say as Ajax fan. The National Prevention Agreement has brought much momentum and has laid an important foundation with fine initiatives: quit smoking in the basic package, an initiative of health insurance companies; 30% less sugar in soft drinks, an initiative of producers. But we often make extra meters when the legislator also takes action. Smoke from 2024 onwards may no longer be sold in the supermarket. In that way the Netherlands will become a global leader. Mr. Chairman. The WRR, which has been mentioned by several members, virtually everyone, as a source, recently reported in its opinion on the Future of Care that a sugar tax, mandatory reduction of salt and less sales points of alcohol can bring about. That leaves nothing to be desired for clarity. The council also explicitly places the ball on the board of the government as legislator. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink asked for legal standards for salt, sugar and fat in food. Here's what I'm gonna do. I agree with him that it is very important that products become healthier. I can promise you I'd like to do a reconnaissance on possible options to get this done. That's not settled from today to tomorrow. I leave a judgment on the results of that reconnaissance to a new cabinet. I can easily say that, because this exploration takes some time, and I hope that the cabinet formation will come to an end at some point. I'll say something about it, because this is a lead and I want to take a serious look at it. The track that is now running is the New Approach product improvement. That is what we are doing with the market, with the producers and supermarkets. That is different from what we had in product improvement, because then only the suppliers were at the table. They were all alone on the buttons. At the track that is now running, it is the government that takes control, because we determine the criteria. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Esch noted that there was a huge discrepancy between the money we spend on health and the money we spend on care. That is well known, but she has put it very clearly, and rightly so. It is also supported by the RIVM figures. It has to be structuralally different. We all agree on that. But that change doesn't come about by itself. It hits money, it affects the distribution of responsibility. Municipalities argue that the financing of prevention activities is mainly temporary, that results are not readily visible and that solving problems is given priority over preventing them. In other words, the incentives are wrong, as Mrs Aukje de Vries said, and I think Mrs Gündoğan is wrong. I outlined in my letter Building blocks for a foundation under future prevention policy, before the summer, what is needed to change that. As far as I am concerned, that is very concrete. A legal duty to promote health, clear tasks and responsibility for the municipalities. I'm looking at Mrs. Chicken, who also referred to this. In doing so, cooperation between municipalities and the health insurance company is self-evident. It is not only the responsibility of the municipalities, but also of those other important financiers: the health insurance companies. Cooperation is important, for example, when it comes to good interventions in the combined lifestyle intervention, good agreements or prevention of falls, because that is actually covered by the same block. I would like to look at Mrs Tellegen and Mrs Paulusma in particular, and they have been very keen on this. Fall prevention may sound abstract, but it's very concrete. An example is In Balance, a group training for the elderly. They're getting information. They get a movement program to become fitter and stronger and to improve balance. But also something like medication checks are part of it, because dizziness from pills can lead to falls. And you don't even have to be old for that. A program like that pays off. I understand the impatience of parties if this is not widely deployed. This is due, among other things, to the need for agreements between care, health and well-being. And that slippage is really very important. An important step is that the Zorginstituut Nederland is currently investigating the extent to which fall prevention can be included in insured care. This is then comparable to the combined lifestyle intervention, which is already part of the basic package. We expect a result of this investigation at the beginning of 2022. And that could lead to fall prevention being part of the basic package. Within the prevention programme in the healthcare system, I look at the wider issue of how we can organise prevention at the interface between the different areas. So you're talking about municipalities, well-being and care. The participation of the parties demonstrates the degree of support for this, so that will undoubtedly help to achieve this. Mr President, last but not least on this point. I am looking at Mrs Van den Berg, but I am also looking at others, who stressed the importance of looking at prevention as widely as possible. That's not just concern. The WRR also mentioned this in his report. And I would like to quote from page 370 of that beautiful, very reading report: 'Care is only one of the sources of health, and probably not even the most important. Housing..." I have to quote it correctly, by the way. It says here "not even one of the most important." "Housing, quality of work, air quality, environment, level of education and other social and environmental factors are more decisive for our health than care." By the way, the WRR has derived this wisdom from Mr Polder and others. The WRR therefore also calls for structural investment in comprehensive prevention. I think all the spokesmen in this house share that view. In any case, I agree with Mrs Van den Berg's broad approach in her speech. Which brings me to the next block, about homelessness and homelessness. This is also a broad approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u184	Before proceeding, Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party and Mrs. Paulusma of D66 would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u185	Thanks to the Secretary of State for his, well, good and fine words about prevention. We are often here to discuss this issue with each other, and I certainly know the good intentions of this Secretary of State in this area. But I'm still curious about his intention, or his vision of the next. In the written reply I read about the Prevention Agreement 2.0, which will be formed in a new government period. We know that the food industry was also at the table in the negotiations on the previous Prevention Agreement. This Secretary of State also knows, I believe, that the Animal Party was absolutely not in favour of this. We believe that it has achieved the opposite of what we wanted to achieve in the Prevention Agreement. We also know what consequences that has had. RIVM has pointed that out to us. I am curious to see the Secretary of State's view on this role of business at the table in the negotiations on a new Preventive Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u186	I get the question. It has also always played around the conclusion of the current Prevention Agreement. At the tobacco table, the part of the tobacco prevention agreement, the industry did not sit at the table. That has also led to very firm steps. By the way, I would like to say that we have also taken steps on the subject of overweight and alcohol, while the industry was at the table on these subjects, i.e. the producers and supermarkets. We have also taken steps in these areas, although they are not so good that we can achieve our ambitions. But these parties have certainly had an interesting input, for example in reducing calories in soft drinks. The industry has said that we are at the point of reducing the calorie of 30% in soft drinks. We are now ahead of schedule. If you can take strong steps together that will make it easier for people to make a healthy choice, and if you can do that together with industry, then we should seize that opportunity, even though it almost sounds like a paradise situation. That is an approach that appeals to me very much. We'll have to see if we can. I'm definitely not going on the eve of... Let us hope that there will be a next prevention agreement or a full follow-up that is even more ambitious. I'm not gonna say to the eve: I'm gonna rule them out and those parties out. I'll say that, as far as I'm concerned, ambitions may be higher. It is not for nothing that I am enthusiastically referring to rather solid texts of the Scientific Council for Government Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u187	Still. We have read in the documents that the journalist wrote about what the food industry did behind closed doors. Demands were put on the table: no imports of sugar. If they didn't, they'd quit. Those pieces are there. That information is now public. We know that this is how the previous prevention agreement was negotiated. I am therefore curious whether this Secretary of State agrees with the Animal Party at least. We do not think at the table that if they sit down at the table again at such a next prevention agreement, that should at least be done in public, so that everyone can see what is being discussed there. So at least that is how the prevention agreement should be shaped. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u188	In any case, we can give that wish to the next cabinet. For me, two things are central to the design of a follow-up to the prevention agreement: a high level of ambition with many appropriate measures that really reflect that level of ambition, and b support. I think that support is very important. For me, the question is how much you allow that support to prevail over ambitious measures. As far as I am concerned, that is the agenda in the run-up to a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u189	Thank you for your introduction and your reaction in this first block of prevention. I do have one more question. Nor did the answer appear in the written response you gave to my contribution. I indicated that we charge €80,000 for treatment when it comes to cost-effectiveness, while we only charge €20,000 for prevention. That is a frontier that I think we should look at when I listen to the Minister. We should do something at that border. For example, rota vaccine is now outside the scope of assessment, whereas all professionals in the world around us say it's super effective. I wonder if the Minister is prepared to see whether we should actually do something with this in order to ensure that we also value prevention in terms of cost-effectiveness as well as treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u190	Thank you. It's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u191	Last year the second spokesman on behalf of the cabinet was the minister, but this time it is the Secretary of State. I get the question. The fact is that in these steps, for example, we ask for advice from the Health Council, the royal route we have agreed with each other, also rely on the advice and use it as a standard. This has also led to the relevant advice of the Health Council on rota vaccine. As far as I'm concerned, we're dealing with this ourselves. The House of Representatives itself is about that, I mean, not us, but you. She's talking about whether we're gonna maintain that relationship. As far as I am concerned, we can have the debate on this. As far as I am concerned, investment in prevention must have a price, especially if we assume that there are enormous benefits and that we realise how much intangible suffering is avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u192	Thank you, Secretary of State; a correction to my previous contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u193	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Van Esch, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u194	Yes, excuse me, Mr President, because I could have just taken this question with me. I was just thinking: the block of prevention is almost over! I wanted to continue briefly on the protein transition I referred to in my contribution. In itself, a written answer has been given. As a matter of fact, I am standing here today, after nineteen years ago the Animal Party was founded. So we're celebrating our 19-year-old party today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u195	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u196	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u197	Thank you! After nineteen years of telling the story about protein transition here and after twelve years of writing protein transition policy, we hoped that steps would be taken now. We have read the letter sent in response to the Transition Coalition Food, which is calling for frequent attention to this. But I do not see any concrete measures yet. We do not see what steps have been taken in those twelve years and how we then arrive at that important protein transition, also for our health in the Netherlands. I am curious to see what measures this Secretary of State can take to bring this movement a little further than the twelve years of policy that has already been on paper, and as far as we are concerned, even the story that we have been telling for nineteen years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u198	I find that a difficult question. The fact is that the ambition is to turn the existing balance into fifty-fifty. That is also stated in the written reply. It is now out of balance, because it is now 60 to 40 in favour of animal food. If it is up to the Party for the Animals, the balance in favour of plant food becomes very different. You can write down that ambition, but then you have to add the deed to the word. I agree with Mrs Van Esch that we need to get something out of the closet. As far as I am concerned, this is an item on the agenda for a new prevention agreement. You could then think of making the healthy choice easier, also by differentiation in prices. That's a imaginable route. As for the Five Disc: I think that the Nutri-Scorelogo, which we want to introduce next year, can also contribute to this, because that way you can also send on more "Disc of Five" proof food. That is not a harsh prescription or prohibition, but it is an incentive to make the healthy choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u199	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u200	Finally, indeed, Mr President. I have a quick question. Recently, the Disk for Life has been presented. I wonder if this Secretary of State knows about this initiative. A suggestion is to consider, for example, whether this could be part of the food policy or the prevention agreement, given that it takes very concrete steps and that it also sees very concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u201	I can say briefly that I want to take a serious look at that. I would also advise my successor to include this in a new prevention agreement. If that means that we are going to bring about the shift faster or more ambitious in the Disk of Five, then I think we should also do real expectations management. We should not suggest that this can be done in a few years' time. Let's do things in the right order, with a real timeline. I think it's quite an achievement if we can live up to what we agreed on, so fifty-fifty in the Five Disk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u202	I just want to get back to the rota vaccine. RIVM indicates that 3,500 children with this infectious disease end up in hospital every year. That is quite a number and, of course, a considerable burden on hospital care. We want to combat this tax. I would like to ask the Secretary of State the following. If, in any case, there is more pressure on the pharmaceutical industry or any other way that we can get to work quickly with that vaccine, is the Secretary of State prepared not to wait and postpone it, but to get to work with this vaccine as soon as possible? This must be done not only in order to prevent the burden on hospitals, but also, above all, to help these children and to prevent illness and even death. I would like the promise that, as soon as possible, we will also use this vaccine widely in the National Vaccination Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u203	Of course, I have the same ambition as Mr Hijink about the interests of children. There is, however, a complicating factor. The Health Council has given its opinion. He says that it is very annoying in such a discussion that it is not cost-effective now, given the price that currently applies. Then it's the 20,000 and 80,000. We need to see if we can push the price down and whether we can generate resources at all at a rich level to finance that. Simply put, there is no money earmarked for it in the budget at the moment. That's the earliest we can do with the next spring note. I would like to move forward as soon as possible, so I also ask RIVM to start an implementation programme as soon as possible, not to waste time and to let tracks run parallel. On the one hand, therefore, financial coverage must be organised and, on the other hand, implementation must be prepared. If you want to start, you have to tender it. We must do this within the framework of legality and so on. If you're going to peel that off, the fastest route of contracting and implementing will take about a year. If that decision is taken in the spring of next year and if the financial framework conditions are met, so if we have taken that bump, I will do everything I can to make that bump, we can say it in real terms at the earliest possible time in a year's time and then implement it. I'm very motivated to do that. I can't go any faster than that, but that gives me a real timetable. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to go to the second block, because I was making that switch after I said it's okay to look at the whole thing, all the circumstances that people are in. This applies to prevention, to lifestyle, but also to homelessness and homelessness. Unfortunately, there are still far too many people who are nowhere at home. It is incredibly difficult to solve this problem at a time when there is a shortage of homes, in a hugely overstretched housing market. Over the past period, we have worked on two programmes: the Action Programme for Homeless Young People and the broad approach A (home) home, a future. The results are good. I was very pleased with the CBS figures in April of this year. We've had an increase for years. It even led to a doubling of the number of homeless and homeless. The 2018 stand was that 39,000 people were homeless or homeless. So that was in 2018. With the programmes mentioned, we have managed to bring that back to 36,000. We bent the growth towards a drop. The decline was particularly visible among young people. But we have to seriously count on Corona to have a setback here as well. I told you in my introduction: if there's a big wave if you're already standing with your ankles in the surf, you'll be flooded rather than when you're high and dry on the beach. Temporary shelter is an emergency hold. That's where we are by now. We can't be satisfied with that. What people need is a home, a place of their own, where they can build their future. We know what works by now. We also have to do it together with homeless people themselves. As far as I am concerned, it always starts with the people themselves, with experience experts, with people who are still in care. However, municipalities, youth care providers, ggz, health insurers, district teams, justice and social care also have a role to play. That sounds awfully complicated, but it's going well this time of year. There is a lot of enthusiasm among all the parties involved; especially where project leaders function as a spider in the web, we are moving forward. That's the road up, which we had entered for corona and on which we must continue. I understand Mrs Paulusma's concerns, because both programmes and the related funding end at the end of this year. Mrs Westerveld has also drawn attention to it. You don't have to look deep into my heart to know how I feel about that. On the other hand, I think it is up to a new cabinet to say that we are going to move forward and make additional resources available for this additional approach. I'll put a line under that last one. What we've done over the past few years has been an extra boost. Of course, municipalities have a lot of resources - 385 million - for social care. So that's it. The shelter is on its own. But that extra impulse and we can calculate what is needed for it, I would rather promise yesterday than today. To be honest, I think it's classy to leave that to a next cabinet. I would also like to say this later in the appreciation of Mrs Westerveld's amendment cum suis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u204	We've already received the appreciation in writing. I just wanted to compliment the Secretary of State on that money. That's what I've done in my contribution. That money is very much needed to ensure that the number of people who are homeless and homeless does not increase further. That is why it is such a pity that this programme stops because a new cabinet is being formed and that money is therefore on pause. I do have a question about that. When I look at the appreciation, I see that the cabinet says: "The amendment provides for cover outside the budget of the VWS Ministry. This calls for a decision from the new cabinet. For this reason, I advise against the amendment." I think that is an opportunity argument, because the cabinet may be outgoing, but of course the Chamber is not. The Chamber still has a budget right. We can amend budgets. We can make money for something if that's what we want as a room. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with me that, as a Chamber, we can of course decide that this action programme will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u205	That's just one of the state's laws: parliament is the boss. So if the House of Representatives decides by majority "we're going to get money out of the Tax Plan and we're going to use that money for this, among other things," so be it. I think that will be dealt with on Monday when we deal with the Tax Plan. On the other hand, I find it appropriate for my position as Deputy Secretary of State to say: I am not about that now. I don't think it's classy to say, "I'm gonna do that." I think it is the royal route for a new cabinet to decide. Mrs Westerveld is absolutely right when she says: yes, but if we as a parliament decide to do so, so will we. That's the way it is, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u206	I understand the Secretary of State, but this is also an opportunity argument. Look at the General Political Reviews. There was a motion from the House of Representatives on the revenue side that put a lot of shoved over there. That's where it was $2 billion. The motion tabled by Mrs Hermans of the VVD also received a ruling from the Chamber. We are actually talking about the same situation as today: the Chamber thinks that money is needed for something and asks for a ruling from the Cabinet. That motion was then judged Chamber. I think it would be nice if our amendment could also be judged by the Chamber of Cabinet when the cabinet says here, and that is what the Secretary of State says 'I agree with you in substance'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u207	Yes, but we now have budget chapter XVI at the head of the VWS budget. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is proposing an amendment to this budget chapter, with coverage not here but in another budget chapter. That's of a different order. In the General Reviews it is considered integrally in one debate. That is absolutely not an opportunity argument. That's how we do it here. If you have an integral debate, you can do it. I'm not gonna say, guys, fix it and get that money out of another pot. That should have been done sooner, in the General Reviews. Let me make it clear that I am 100% in content, and if there were more percentages, I said that I agree with Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u208	But it's still possible. We want to cover this from an amendment amending the Tax Plan. We can do that until November 5th, if I'm right. By the way, we are also open to cover it differently. I look at my colleagues in the House of Representatives. When we were here the day before yesterday, I heard from a number of parties that it is very important that we do not leave people who have no roof over their heads in the cold. I'll take a look behind me. I hope we're gonna get out of this in the near future. It is very important that we do not temporarily stop a successful programme. Probably a next cabinet will just go back to it. But there'll be a snipe in it. I don't think anyone's been helped with that at all. Moreover, this is not an effective way of dealing with our public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u209	And certainly not with a vulnerable group of people. Mrs Westerveld and I agree 100%. I didn't hear a question at the last interruption, but more of a call to see what we can do. She's almost in a split because she's looking at me and her colleagues. Shall we support this noble goal for a moment? I wish her luck with that. I think I'm allowed to do that as a Demissionary Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I come to my third block, the ggz. The corona crisis shows that we can all be shaken if we lose certainties. That may be more true for some than for others. Especially many of our young people were having a hard time. I've done video bells with crying high potential young people who were so in the pit during this corona crisis. We need to get a better look at mental problems and better help. Last week I wrote to your Chamber that a first reconnaissance showed that there is broad support for working together to strengthen our mental health. That was in response to the Dik-Faber motion and another petitioner to launch a national mental health prevention agreement. That is where we take the first step. Of course, we are going to have a quick debate on this. We will soon have a separate committee debate on ggz and a separate debate on youth policy, and these questions will undoubtedly come back to us again. However, I would like to dwell on the subject of mental health, ggz, because it affects many of us. Mrs Bikker, Mrs Simons, Mrs Van der Plas, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Kuzu asked for very explicit attention to the ggz. Some of us get very personal about it. Mrs Den Haan's story will have left no one untouched, at least not me. That was a hell of a break. Like some others, she also referred to the round table recently held with young people and their parents, about youth and multi-problems, in which parents who had lost their child expressed their emotions and told young people about their own experiences with youth aid. The goal was not to identify culprits, but to learn from this with each other and to improve support and care. This gives a lot of cause for reflection and discussion, for example, about the problems in the transition from youth to adult ggz, about more multidisciplinary treatment or about involving parents, even if the younger person is over 16 years of age. I would like to promise, also in response to Mrs Den Haan's point, that we will involve this in the discussions we are having right now, because that is all about the Youth Reform Agenda. We have these conversations with young people themselves, with clients, with municipalities, with professionals, with organizations and with the Empire, i.e. with five parties. Once again, I expect both subjects to return to the debates we are having on ggz and youth at the beginning of next month. I'm done with the ggz. Then I'm at my last block: disability policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u210	I understand that we are going to discuss this further, at other times, in a number of committee debates, but I would like to come back to the model of care performance and the reduction of waiting lists. In the reply of the Secretary of State, I read that the current funding system may be a reason for the formation of waiting lists. I'm very curious what that's based on, how that relationship is proven. I imagine that waiting lists are mainly caused by the lack of care staff; we just don't have the people to treat the patients. I would very much like an explanation of how the new financing system will then exactly eliminate that deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u211	In order to take away a misunderstanding, because I must remove that thought immediately, if it were to arise from that written answer: it is not that I think that with the new funding model that will come into force next year, all the problems surrounding waiting lists are over. Absolutely not. I see this as an important tool for stimulating specialist assistance. That's what I'm trying to explain by indicating that we're now working in the ggz with dbc-costing, with diagnosis-treatment combination cost. This means: average prices for journeys. There's a perverse incentive in that. I am not just saying that, as the providers themselves say, because that can lead to someone being helped just over the border of a DB scale and being in care for longer. That's a perverse incentive. That could be someone who doesn't have a big help question. In this system there can be a huge influx on the generalist ggz, and in that system it is financially very unattractive for providers to deal with someone with a complex need for help. That's just what they're saying. In the dbc-systematiek the stimulant is not large. The new system, which will enter into force next year, assumes that suppliers can bill on the basis of the help they have provided. It also defines the type of assistance provided. If the psychiatrist is in charge, then the hours are more expensive than with a nurse. If they are able to declare that, then that idea is widely shared in the ggz: with the providers, the domes and the insurers, an important negative incentive has been removed to finance expensive, complex assistance. That gives me the boldness to be optimistic about that. Have we solved all the problems? Absolutely not. But then we removed an important bump that now hinders people with a complex need for help being properly taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u212	I am very pleased with this explanation. This certainly clarifies things. I am also very pleased that the Secretary of State is aware that this cannot be the only means. What other measures can be taken to achieve a structural reduction in those waiting lists will probably not be possible in the forthcoming debates, and I hope that this will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u213	Yes. Maybe I can say something about that. That debate will of course come, but as far as I am concerned, good cooperation between providers is a very important key. We want to get rid of the world in which a provider who has people on the waiting list does not know a colleague provider with the same offer that does have space. So: working well together. You now see a transfer system throughout the country, as we call it. That sounds like you're talking about football, but it's about handing over a patient with a question of help that's on the waiting list at one, while he can be helped by another. Now, for example, that gets a whole flight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u214	Mrs Westerveld's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u215	Yes. I have a question about the amendment we have tabled with the aim of making additional training places available to GZ psychologists. Why is that necessary? We know there are huge waiting lists in both youth care and ggz. There is therefore a need for more people to be trained to help people. Now I read in the appreciation that we have received in writing that the training places are financed from the contributions and that it is therefore not possible to increase the availability contribution with this amendment. Now I have another amendment, tabled by my colleague Renkema two years ago, about exactly the same thing. All we've done is adjust the numbers. That has to do with the cover. That amendment was accepted by the Chamber and it has been implemented. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State how this was possible two years ago, but apparently not at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u216	That is a perfectly logical question. That amendment was adopted two years ago, and that is what the law says in the budget. Then you have to do it. Only, it couldn't be done then either. To the consolation of Mrs Westerveld: but it has been dealt with. This only happened not through the budget route, but through the route of the premiums. That is what I want to say here with the appreciation of this amendment. I understand the target very well. However, putting the money on the budget is not the right route, because these training places are financed from the premiums. And you, the Chamber, do not amend the premium. As far as I am concerned, therefore, a motion containing that statement would be a more logical and purer route than an amendment. I don't mean that mosquito-like. That's the way the technique works. I would like to add a point of substance, because I understand that wish. If there is a shortage of GZ psychologists and the problem of resolving the waiting lists, for example, Mrs Westerveld is always committed to this; homage to this is necessary to train people, then I have to say the following. The Capacity Body shall itself determine the forecasts. There are also the professionals at the table. As a responsible ruler, I say: the Capacity Body gives an estimate; we sit at the maximum; we honor it. I think it is a crazy figure that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will have to amend, year after year, what the Capacity Body itself... I find that annoying. A narrow section of the Capacity Body talks with political groups: please come forward with a shift. I think that's a little unheimic. So I want to talk to the Capacity Body about this too, because that should not really be the case. I warmly welcome this point from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It should not be the case, however, that the Capacity Body establishes a prognosis and, over the next few years, goes to the House of Representatives to say: yes, we have predicted that, but that has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u217	Thank you. You also have a second term, Mrs Westerveld. We have agreed on the amendments to at least use the second deadline. Let us now turn to the issue of disability policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u218	Mr. Chairman. That's my last block too, my fourth part. I was always proud of the title of the program Unlimited! Until Mrs. Werner came up with a truly brilliant find: unprecedented potential. I'll tell you in her direction. So if there is to be a follow-up to this programme, we already have the title. It completely covers the load, because I fully agree with her: let us not let that potential be lost. Every human being has talents. Let's use it instead of putting people at home behind the geraniums. Any man can do things. I started my speech with the idea that my adage is: everyone should be able to participate. So I think it's a brilliant, free advice for the next cabinet on this point. We are still with the title Unlimited! The programme focuses on reducing visible and invisible thresholds encountered by people with disabilities in everyday life. With the help of partners, we have been able to take significant steps. A question from Mrs Werner was: what has been achieved? I would like to mention a few examples, but I'm pretty sure she knows them better by heart than I do. However, I have a few striking examples to give to the Chamber as well. Something has indeed happened since the ratification of the Convention. More and more municipalities work together with their residents on the local inclusion agenda. This recently became visible with the election of the most accessible municipality. It became the municipality of Stein. Greetings. That's a first. The second: the University of Twente recently signed the UN Declaration of Intent as an eighteenth institution in higher education and thus expresses its desire to be an inclusive university, where any student can study. That's the second one. The third: 76% of train passengers now travel to or from an accessible station. For a quarter this is not yet the case, but the goal is that next year at least 90% of passengers travel to and/or to an accessible station. Those are good results, aren't they? And a fourth: more and more entrepreneurs ensure that their businesses and shops are accessible to people with disabilities. In the SME Accessible Route project, SMEs-The Netherlands recently highlighted a number of good examples in the Nijmegen Empire. So these are four great examples. So things are really happening. All the steps that have been taken are in the final report that you receive in mid-November, but with this I have already lifted a tip of the veil for you. In this final report, I have identified a number of promising principles for the follow-up approach, which I hope will also be addressed by a future cabinet. For example, it is incredibly important that we always involve people with disabilities in making and implementing plans. The implementation of the UN Convention has not been completed. That's what Mrs. Werner and Mrs. Westerveld both asked for. The next cabinet must also work with it and ensure that people with disabilities can participate fully in society: in education, in the labour market and in public space. Because they do have an unprecedented potential. Mr President, I have come to the end of the fourth block. I have a few amendments that I would like to respond to, as far as that has not already happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u219	Yes. Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Werner from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u220	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his compliments on the title "unknown potential." I still have a question about the programme Unlimited! The answer states that awareness and positive imagery have been successful. Now my question is: how could people with disabilities have noticed this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u221	In my view, this is something we are going to highlight in the final report, which is also the subject of a debate in November, I think. I don't know what date. The final report shall indicate how this has been measured. I honestly do not know myself, because I have not yet taken note of whether it is based on a quantitative or qualitative measurement or both. So the simple, honest answer is: I don't know. I think it's in the final report. Let us meet, I say through the chairman to Mrs Werner, that I will inform the Chamber in a different way if it is not in the Chamber. And if it's in there, it's just in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u222	I think this is very important: is it measurable? Because positive imaging, awareness, that awareness, is incredibly key when it comes to being able to participate. So I'm very curious about that. I have another question. The answer also said: it was agreed in the cabinet that every department that participates in Unlimited! The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and Are there any ministries that don't participate in this program?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u223	Do you want the long list or the short list? No, that wasn't serious. There are, of course, ministries that are equal to the bar. I am thinking, for example, of IenW, for infrastructure adjustment. But Mrs Werner is asking me about this too. I wouldn't know which ministry doesn't feel responsible for any part of the execution. As far as I am concerned, I shall move this question to the debate we will have on this shortly, but if Mrs Werner wants to know tomorrow, she will receive a written answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u224	I do not necessarily need to know tomorrow, but it would be nice to know if it is visible which departments are involved and how it is monitored. It is, of course, interdepartmental, that word I have never seen come across in Lingo, and that is very important. If so, it is nice to see how every ministry works on Unlimited participation! My question is: how can we make that visible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u225	I take that question very seriously, but I'm taking it as homework, just to show you that I take it seriously. 'Cause I don't know the answer right now. I would like to say that we make it clear which ministries are involved and how they fulfil their responsibility for fulfilling the Treaty obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u226	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u227	Thank you. Then there are two amendments which need to be appreciated. I think these are the amendments to Parts Nos. 33 and 37. The amendment in part No. 33 is the amendment tabled by Mrs Paulusma, Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u228	Yeah, that's about the medication transfer. For the sake of clarity, judge Chamber. We certainly see the importance of a good digital coupling and we see the great importance of medication safety in the context of kick-starting. The amendment in part No. 33 as far as I am concerned, therefore, gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u229	Then we have the amendment to item No. 37 by Mrs Tellegen on the prevention of falls.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u230	Yes. As far as I'm concerned, he's gonna get a judgment room too. I can say that briefly. I have already said in the prevention of falls that this requires more. We also want it, as it were, to be part of the basic package, but this could provide a very good impetus for municipalities to take this matter further. So heartfelt judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u231	Yes, it is indeed a nice amendment. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers (COM (86) 586 final) is a very important one. 29 is still missing, however. That amendment was in the documents, but that was an old version.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u232	Oh, did I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u233	That is the amendment tabled by Mrs Van Esch and Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u234	Yes. That is the amendment to item No. 29. That is the amended amendment to item No. 19. That amendment frees EUR 1 million for the Healthy School programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u235	You have advised against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u236	No. I'm gonna overrule the chairman. We see the usefulness of this amendment and I would therefore like to give it the appreciation of Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u237	Well, I think that's nice for the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u238	In order to avoid any confusion, we have the amendment to item No. 19, which has been distributed, amended, and that is now the amendment to item No. 29 years old. That's what Court has been given judgment on. The amendment in part No. 19 is therefore no longer there, that is the amendment to item No. 29 and there is judgment given to Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u239	Then you've done a good job in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u240	Mr. Chairman. I understand the confusion, because the amendment to item No. 19 had a negative appreciation and the amendment to item No. 29 a positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u241	That's good for the proposers. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. We'll proceed immediately to the second term of the Chamber. In view of the time available, I would ask people to at least limit the number of interruptions and questions to what is necessary. Mrs. Agema, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u242	Mr. Chairman. I had 38 motions last year. Unfortunately, it will have to be zero this year, because I have run out of minutes. If anyone wishes to submit my motion for an inquiry into the maximum income and the part-time factor, I am highly recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u243	Thank you for reporting, Mrs Agema. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer. The whole red line in the story was actually the sustainable care. I also think that we should get to work on this in the future. It is not the case that this is now suddenly being discussed after the report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. I remember having regular talks with the Minister of Finance when I was spokesperson for Finance and asking them to talk to the Minister for Finance to see how we could manage these costs in order to maintain our good care. Then I have a few points. I tabled an amendment on control together with Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, also because we are working together on an initiative legislative proposal, which we hope will be able to conclude quickly. We believe that this is a very important proposal in the context of the labour market. In line with that story, we think it is important that we work on the rule pressure. That is why I have a motion with Mrs van den Berg on this matter. Then there is a third point. That is a motion on labour-saving innovation, because we believe that this can also make an important contribution. I'll read that motion now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Scientific Council for Government Policy indicates that the staff shortage is the most acute and pressing issue for the sustainability of care;]] [[whereas one in seven people currently work in health care, and that this would be one in four people in 2040 under unchanged policies;]] [[noting that there are good examples of labour-saving innovations, such as nurses who spend 90% less time on wound care thanks to innovative bandage materials;]] [[Calls on the Government to continue to identify, together with the sector, which technologies are proven to be effective in saving time, under what circumstances and the sector actively encourage scaling up;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate what is needed to support parties in this process and what the obstacles are and which actors are involved in it;]] [[invites the Government to inform the House of Representatives in the first quarter 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u245	We think it is important that if there are pilots, they are also simply scaled up. Because sometimes that's a problem. A second motion on prevention. I think we've talked a lot about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of prevention for achieving health benefits, but also in the context of the sustainability and affordability of care;]] [[Whereas it is important to increase the use of incentives for prevention in the Health Insurance Act;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the obstacles and bottlenecks in the Health Insurance Act for health insurance companies in order to do more to prevent and resolve them, and to inform the House of Representatives in the first quarter 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u246	For us that is really different from the things that go into the basic package, such as the combined lifestyle intervention and the prevention of falls, which are of course also very good developments. Then I have a question about the general practitioner's consultation. I wonder where the space is. Mrs Kuik will come back to that in a moment. We think it is important that we have this scaling-up and not just pilots. There was one more question from the first term. In the context of pandemic preparedness, I had asked about the role of the Pandemic & Disaster Preparedness Center. I think the Minister should address this because it comes from his city of Rotterdam. I have, of course, tabled an amendment with a number of my colleagues on psychosocial cancer. We think this is important, because we simply do not do enough for life with and after cancer. We want to give an extra boost to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u247	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Tellegen, including the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to both directors for this long sitting and for the answers. I'll be brief. I have tabled two amendments, one on palliative care and its importance and one on prevention of falls. I would like to thank both directors for their support. I've got two more motions. They are a bit more technical in nature, but hopefully they can also contribute to the famous slippage between the three laws we are dealing with in long-term care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that subsequent funding and cross-domain cooperation contribute to the freedom of choice of clients about whom care is provided, when this happens and whether it takes place at home or in the nursing home;]] [[noting that subsequent funding and domain-wide experiments show positive results and lead to better compliance with the wishes of clients in long-term care;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with the sector to examine how the results of subsequent funding and cross-domain experiments can be applied more widely, if possible already in the run-up to the entry into force of the bill on cross-domain cooperation, and to identify the framework conditions to be respected and to inform the Court of Justice in the first quarter of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tellegen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u249	That "and goes to the order of the day" always again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u250	It was like a cliffhanger, this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u251	Yeah, he hung out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care for the elderly has been financed by three laws since 2015 (Zvw, Wlz, Wmo);]] [[noting that the overarching objective is and remains good and accessible care in the right place at the right price;]] [[Considering that coherent incentives for prevention and quality procurement are essential for this purpose;]] [[noting that in contracts between purchasers and providers of care for the elderly, quality still plays too small a role and the instruments available for this purpose are not sufficiently exploited;]] [[noting the lack of genuine quality information;]] [[noting that the divisions between the three laws offer little scope for joint action on prevention;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how more prevention and quality can be steered within the existing long-term care system and to inform the Court of Justice in spring 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tellegen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u252	Mr. Chairman. It is well known that the SP believes that the appreciation for caregivers should be increased and that it should not be left to applause. As far as we are concerned, it should not be the 675 million which has now been set aside for healthcare salaries. I also find it very unfortunate that such a discussion is now taking place on this amount, because we really believe that the money should reach the people who need it most. The best way to solve scarcity is, of course, to ensure that all caregivers receive the appreciation they deserve and that the salaries for these caregivers can also be raised. That's why I'd like to table the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u253	Can I have a little more silence in the room? Mr Hijink has the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u254	Yeah, and he's gonna file a keigooie motion, so listen up. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a significant pay gap between high levels of care pay and wages in the market and public sector;]] [[calls on the government to release EUR 2.1 billion in additional financial resources for healthcare salaries in the 2022 budget, in addition to the EUR 675 million released by the Heink/Bikker motion, and to find budgetary cover in the increase in corporate tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u255	We have also talked extensively about care for the elderly and how you could organise it at the level of the neighborhood and at the level of a village. I would like to make the following proposal. We do not like the way things are going, with a lot of care institutions working side by side. We have the different laws of care that stand in the way of cooperation and encourage competition. So we want to organise this differently and I would like to table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care for the elderly is currently very fragmented between many different providers;]] [[Whereas care for the elderly could be better and more efficient if organised on the basis of cooperation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how older people's care can be organised as much as possible at local or village level with less competition and how legislation and regulation can be adapted to this, and to implement this practice in parallel in a few neighbourhoods or villages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u256	Finally, I have a motion on prevention. I have made a number of proposals, not just in relation to legislation on what exactly should be in a product. Should there be exactly 40 sugars in a bottle of Coke, or could we legally limit that? The Secretary of State made a good commitment to this, namely to investigate how this could be done. I just want to make another proposal when it comes to child marketing. What can we do about advertising just for kids, to mess with their shit? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that unhealthy foods are very harmful to health in the long term;]] [[noting that a ban on child marketing for unhealthy foods could be regulated either by amendment of the Warenwet or by a separate new law;]] [[points out that the government should issue a bill prohibiting advertising of unhealthy foods specifically aimed at children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u257	I see I've got a minute. I'd like to talk to you about the GPs. Mrs De Vries also mentioned this, and Mrs Kuik will be tabling a motion on this later, which concerns longer consultations for our general practitioners. We think this is very important. I had a debate with the Minister on this. It is, of course, very strange that the cabinet on the one hand says that there should be less care in the hospital because it is so expensive, but on the other hand it does not create space, does not create space for the general practitioners to be able to take care of it, in order to ensure prevention. General practitioners should be able to talk longer, talk about the causes of medical problems and prevent medical care. This requires a longer consultation. That is why I support the motion that Mrs Kuik is about to table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u258	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just going to be brief, following the good example of the Secretary of State. I'd like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands there is a significant delay in the exchange of digital data in healthcare and this is at the expense of working pleasure;]] [[noting that other countries, such as Denmark, have organised data exchange of patient data and files much smarter;]] [[Whereas the Central Planning Office also indicates that structural care costs can be saved if there is occasional substantial investment in data exchange;]] [[Whereas it is still unclear what the costs will be for the implementation of the Multi-annual Agenda of the Data Exchange in Care Act;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the extent to which occasional investment in the exchange of information in the care sector, how it can be financed and involving experience from other countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Paulusma and Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u260	Second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers experience financial and practical obstacles to the use of professional interpreters, thereby jeopardising the quality of care provision;]] [[Whereas good care should be accessible to all;]] [[considers that it is undesirable for children of patients to translate into complex and far-reaching diagnoses;]] [[Whereas the availability of and easy access to interpreters is an important prerequisite for providing good and efficient care for healthcare providers in all healthcare sectors under the Wlz, Wmo, Youth Act and Wpg;]] [[noting that the regulation of interpretation provision runs counter to different funding flows and calls for a structural cross-domain solution that transcends existing funding structures and the responsibilities of the Dutch Healthcare Authority;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the advantages and disadvantages and practical feasibility for healthcare providers and providers of the various forms of funding and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Paulusma and Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u261	Thank you. We have an amendment. Thanks for the judgment room. Then there's a motion from Mrs. Agema. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to examine the raising of the maximum income limit for the care allowance for both single and partner persons, in order to ensure that more part-time workers work more hours in the care, as they lose their care allowance less quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u262	The previous motion was Agema/chicken or Chicken/Agema. I don't know what the Acts are or aren't allowed to do. I don't think that's relevant. Then I have the next motion. Lyrically she may not yet be quite fluent, but the intention is clear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that during the corona crisis there was more room for general practitioners to plan longer consultations with their patients;]] [[Whereas longer general practitioners' consultations have positive effects on the number of referrals to more expensive hospital care;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide support within three months to speed up the introduction of pilots with longer consultations also for general practitioners in other regions, and to inform the Court as soon as possible;]] [[and asks the government to ask the NZa to include further differentiation of the duration of the consultation to fifteen minutes in the development of the general practitioner's benefit so that this contributes to the purchase of more appropriate care by the health insurance provider and thus less referrals to the hospital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik and Mr Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u263	I'm out of time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, thanks to the leaders for the answers and yet also for the fact that in the written reply there has been specific attention to the Caribbean. More cooperation is being sought to strengthen care there. Also thank you for the Minister's commitment to look with the CDA at how to better achieve mandatory quality registrations, which are relevant to making decisions on acute care. Then I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care providers often encounter legal barriers to data exchange, leading to unnecessary administrative burdens and sometimes at the expense of quality of care;]] [[noting that in other European countries there are often much fewer legal barriers to data exchange, although they are covered by the same General Data Protection Regulation;]] [[noting that also national regulations, including the Medical Treatment Agreement Act and the Wabvpz, prevent proper exchange of information;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the legislation which differs the Netherlands from other countries by using a different interpretation of the GDPR, to also identify which national laws prevent data exchange and how it could be modernised, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before April 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u266	So this is about network care. As far as we are concerned, the current legislation is not equipped for this. Mr. Chairman. Here's what won't surprise you. Mrs De Vries and I have often been hard on the point of administration that is now going to get the first line. We fully support the aim of Mrs Ellemeet's amendment. That is what everyone has to answer for. However, we would like more attention to be paid to the way in which this is done. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is uncertainty as to the impact on the regulatory burden on primary care providers as a result of the Accession Healthcare Providers Act;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the First Line Coalition and the ATR on the regulatory impact and to consider how the regime can be as simple as possible in its implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u267	Mr. Chairman. Last year we called for the capacity of general practitioners to be increased. This is also in line with the opinion of the Capacity Body. I issued an initiative paper on oral care this summer. Of course, we are in favour of a gap-free generation, so that nothing will be needed at all, but now we simply need more dentists, especially in the south-west of the Netherlands. We hear from the field that training may be reduced, as is the case in other countries. This means that you can automatically achieve more by the same means. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a structural shortage of dentists partly due to a shortage of training places;]] [[Whereas one of the possibilities of increasing the capacity of training places could be to shorten training;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the possibility of shortening dental training without resulting in any loss of quality, to include in this study how dental training is organised in neighbouring countries and to inform the Court before April 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Berg and Paulusma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u268	However, I would like to use my final seconds to point out to Minister De Jonge that what he calls "those researches about 40% of administration" comes from, among other things, a serious investigation by Berenschot. Also in the case of work visits, I simply note that administrative burdens are a substantial part of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u269	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I shall then give the floor to your colleague, Mrs Werner. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for answering all the questions. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als eerste heb ik een Westerveld/Werner-motie over onbeperkt meedoen.]] It follows tight. I have one other motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister is in the process of shaping cross-domain concerns;]] [[Whereas carers are of great value to their relatives and provide important support alongside care professionals so that their partner can stay home;]] [[Whereas there should be forms of practical support for carers working in relation to the prevention of overload of carers;]] [[Whereas this should have an impact on the use of care in the Wlz and Zvw;]] [[calls on the government to launch a pilot at five or ten municipalities, offering more practical support to carers and measuring the effects on healthcare use in other laws,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Werner.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for their reply and also to all officials. They have worked very hard over the last few days and the quality of the debate has done a great deal of good. Thank you! I have two motions, including a motion on the transition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still a taboo at the menopause, while half the population is experiencing it;]] [[noting that one third of women's absence between 40 and 60 years of age is related to the transition;]] [[Whereas much of this omission can be avoided and thus also saved hundreds of millions if menopause and related complaints are negotiable;]] [[calls on the government, together with patients and women's organisations, to organise a public campaign to break the taboo, increase the knowledge of women themselves about menopause and to make menopause easier to discuss in the living room, the office and the workplace,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, at the request of the Chamber, the outgoing cabinet has released 675 million extra for care salaries, but deliberately skipped the lowest pay scales in the distribution of funds;]] [[noting that care workers with a gross hourly wage of €15 are not making any progress, while employees with a gross hourly wage of €45 are making the most progress;]] [[Whereas the pay gap within care is already greater than in many other sectors, such as education;]] [[Considers that there is not enough appreciation for our care heroes doing executive work, from helping, home-care worker and cleaner to nurse;]] [[calls on the government to send a further proposal to the Chamber on the distribution of the 675 million with the aim of improving wages at the bottom and closing the overall pay gap within care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-57]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Kuiken, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons, Mr Kuzu, Mr Agema and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The budget of this ministry is net the most extensive budget of the government, and this budget is about something. It is not just about corona, although some colleagues seem to think so, but this budget is also about prevention, ggz, homelessness, healthy food and healthcare salaries. There is also a lot to improve on all these issues. I say that because we as a Chamber have a responsibility in that. I would also like to call on the Chamber to feel that responsibility. In concrete terms, I appeal to my colleagues about the poignant situation that threatens to arise among people who are homeless and homeless. An action programme has been created to help people find a home. That program helps people find a job, but it's threatening to stop now. We hear from aid workers that this doesn't happen because the program wouldn't work. It doesn't happen because the Secretary of State wouldn't want the program. We could hear that this afternoon. But that happens because the cabinet is a missionary. That is why there is a danger of a pause! But, ladies and gentlemen, budget law is with us and I would like to call on everyone to fix this beyond party politics. I would also ask everyone to come with us to this amendment. Let's get a good cover together, and let's settle this with each other. Because what we do matters, but then we have to get up. Well, then we shouldn't just say nice words. Mr President, two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that five years after ratification of the UN Convention, disabled people are participating in the programme Unlimited! good steps have been taken, but people with disabilities need to become more aware of this;]] [[considers that further implementation of the Convention should not be delayed, but should be swiftly addressed;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with experience experts and (administrative) partners, to develop a follow-up approach to exploit their unprecedented potential and to explicitly seek concrete improvement on relevant issues within it;]] [[and invites the Government to submit this to the Chamber before 1 April 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Werner.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u273	And then a very short one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to increase the number of training places for SMEs by EUR 35 million and to finance this from the non-legally compulsory resources provided for in Article 4;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors warmly for their assessment of the amendment I tabled together with Mrs Kuik. Fine. I would also like to thank you for your reply today and for the answers you have given me over the last few days. I've got six motions and I think I'm gonna talk real quick. If I go over my time, it's not so bad. I guess I'll just have to catch up with other budgets. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the World Health Organisation identifies the climate crisis as the biggest threat to public health worldwide;]] [[Considering that last month 200 medical journals warned of catastrophic health damage if it fails to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees;]] [[calls on the government to provide all the necessary resources to help the care to deploy a CO reduction path in line with the 1.5 degree target,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care is responsible for 7% of total Dutch C0 emissions;]] [[noting that a significant proportion of hospital CO emissions are caused by the incineration of medical waste;]] [[noting that an innovative recycling method by which medical waste is melted into new medical instruments is already successfully used by eight hospitals;]] [[calls on the government to fix a percentage of compulsory recycling for medical waste from the hospital sector which is growing more rapidly annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-61]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u275	Next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the sectoral roadmap identifies cure funding as one of the bottlenecks to achieve the CO emission reduction for the hospital sector;]] [[Whereas the Budgetary Framework for Care (BKZ) should be extended to provide financial space for hospitals for additional investments in sustainability, so that this does not prejudice investment in care;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a note on this matter for the purpose of formation;]] [[and calls on the formalising parties to expand the BKZ in order to make necessary investments in the sustainability of the hospital sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM considers that the ambitions for food and alcohol in the Prevention Agreement are not feasible without additional measures;]] [[Considering that wobbled documents show that the food industry had a disproportionate impact on the measures in the Prevention Agreement;]] [[Whereas the food industry has a financial interest in delaying preventive measures for as long as possible;]] [[points out that additional measures to further the ambitions of the Prevention Agreement should be achieved in full transparency and in the interests of public health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-63]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Esch, Mr Hijink, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Westerveld, Mr Kuik, Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u276	I'm almost there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that candy and soft drinks vending machines in schools become a thing of the past as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u277	Then I'll come to my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that new scientific insights about healthy and full nutrition have been placed in the Disk for Life;]] [[calls on the government to give the Disk for Life a place in food policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I have five very reasonable motions. Yeah, you don't believe it, but it's true. I'm going to read them now. This is perhaps the most important motion. It's about the hospital records we want to get at hospital level. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas primary figures are important so that the Court can carry out its controlling task properly and thus control power;]] [[whereas trust in institutions such as RIVM is never, or should be, self-evident and should always be subject to control and criticism, especially by the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that primary covid recordings of individual hospitals do not always correspond (as with UMC Maastricht and CWZ in Nijmegen) to the overall picture outlined by RIVM;]] [[calls on the Government to share with the Chamber as soon as possible the primary covid intake figures, broken down into vaccinated and unvaccinated, of individual hospitals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Houwelingen, Van der Plas, Van Haga, Agema and Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u279	The second motion is for the Secretary of State and concerns prevention. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the promotion of healthy nutrition can contribute to a healthier population;]] [[Whereas healthy food must be affordable for every Dutch person;]] [[noting that the increased low value added tax on food is counter-productive for people's ability to afford healthy food;]] [[Whereas a reversal or total abolition of VAT on fruit and vegetables can have a positive impact on the health of Dutch people;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the abolition of VAT on fruit and vegetables or the reversal of the increase,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u280	Then the third. This is in the wake of the debate itself, because the Minister states that the bureaucracy in hospitals is mainly a cultural problem. I think it's also a structural problem. This motion concerns an investigation into the relationship between the scale of hospitals and absenteeism and staff turnover. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the high absenteeism and progression of care is a major problem;]] [[Whereas the lack of control and autonomy and bureaucracy may play a major role in this process;]] [[noting that the distance between management and the workplace in larger organisations is greater;]] [[noting that this is generally accompanied by a variety of protocols and procedures, i.e. more bureaucracy, and also less impact of people on the workplace throughout the process;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake a brief examination to see whether there is a link between the size of a Dutch hospital (defined as the administrative/legal unit) and absenteeism and staff turnover,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u281	Fourth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that research carried out by Maurice de Hond shows that there is a huge difference between the perception of the threat of, among other things, hospitalization by the coronavirus for unvaccinated persons and the actual figures;]] [[noting that only 24% of the Dutch surveyed had correctly estimated the actual risk of hospitalisation in unvaccinated patients (i.e. around 1%);]] [[noting that 19% of the Dutch surveyed believe that the risk of hospitalisation for unvaccinated patients is greater than 50%;]] [[Whereas such disinformation is very dangerous because it leads to unnecessary fear;]] [[Whereas fear is a poor adviser, harms health and thus increases the cost of care;]] [[calls on the government to inform the population about the hospitalisation potential of corona,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u282	Then there is my last motion, also tabled with my very esteemed colleague Simons in mind. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Minister De Jonge does not rule out separate rules for unvaccinated persons;]] [[Whereas Article 1 of the Constitution reads as follows: "All those located in the Netherlands shall be treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground shall not be allowed."]] [[noting that otherwise treatment of unvaccinated persons is thus not permitted under the Constitution;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that unvaccinated people will not be treated differently;]] [[calls on the Government to respect Article 1 of the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u283	Thank you. If I'm gonna go over my time, I'm gonna do something else. The first motion is a motion that will actually transcend the department. I suspect that will say that we should do it differently. However, I would like to table this motion because prevention is so important, especially because of the WRR report. The Minister's reply also referred to the Health and Society Council, in order to pursue an integrated approach. So that's why we're making this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the WRR report calls for the use of health benefits to ensure the sustainability of our care;]] [[noting that a high level of care, especially care consumption, is poverty-related;]] [[Whereas an effective fight against poverty is a significant source of material and intangible health benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to launch an exploration for a pilot that works in a cross-domain manner in areas such as housing, participation, education, finance and other adjacent areas.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u284	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Speaks in line with the WRR report in a more mandatory way and from different policy areas to focus on broad health and prevention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u285	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the WRR report calls for the use of health benefits to ensure the sustainability of our care;]] [[noting that per capita of the Dutch population an average of 37 kilos of sugar per year is consumed, with this we are in a global third place and this takes a large amount of care costs;]] [[noting that RIVM is clear that the ambitions of the National Preventive Agreement on sugar intake will not be met with the current agreements;]] [[Whereas other countries such as the United Kingdom, France and Norway have successfully introduced a sugar tax;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a sugar tax as soon as possible and to invest the proceeds in health promotion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kuik and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u286	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the WRR report calls for the use of health benefits to ensure the sustainability of our care;]] [[noting that smoking costs society EUR 33 billion net per year and that the enormous intangible damage has not yet been taken into account;]] [[Whereas scientific research has shown that increasing excise duties on tobacco is the most effective instrument for reducing tobacco consumption;]] [[calls on the government to increase excise duties on tobacco in such a way that the price per packet of cigarettes reaches €10 in 2022 and to take concrete steps towards €15 per packet in 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u287	And I fervently hope that if the motions are discouraged, they will at least come to life at the formation table and in the next coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u288	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Do you submit your motions, Mrs. Gündoğan, if you want anything with them, at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u289	Thank you. I, too, have two motions. One is about the ic capacity and one is about the emergency services. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ic capacity is structurally inadequate compared to countries with similar development and level of hospital care as the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the actual scaling-up of ic capacity is slow;]] [[Whereas the release of funds in the budget alone is not sufficient to achieve an ic capacity which is sufficient in the short term to cope with a crisis and which is structurally in order in the long term;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to immediately engage actively in the necessary influx and training of nurses, and to inform the Chamber of how this is to be done,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Agema, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Westerveld, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kuik, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u290	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the emergency and trauma centres, in particular in certain regions, are under severe pressure;]] [[Whereas adequate provision of acute care needs should always be a priority so that there is no shortage and capacity shortages in the organisation of emergency services;]] [[Whereas the urgent nature of the gaps in emergency aid and trauma centres makes it irresponsible to await charcoal sketches and other ideas for organisation;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to urgently identify bottlenecks and to urgently address the need to restore continuity and fast, accessible access to this care throughout the country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Hijink, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Agema, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Kuik, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u291	Thank you, Mr President. It is a pleasure for me to be able to replace Mr Van der Staaij and to speak in this highly respected committee. That's something you're looking forward to. Mr. Chairman. I only have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the shortage of staff may lead to the lack of care and support for patients in the final phase of their life, which prevents them from dying at home;]] [[Considers that it is highly undesirable that the shortage of staff leads to such a lack of care;]] [[calls on the Government to make short-term agreements with insurers, healthcare providers and voluntary organisations to ensure the availability of palliative and terminal (night) care, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Tellegen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u292	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u293	I call Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u294	Given the time I'm gonna take the motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the obligation of annual responsibility for primary care has been made compulsory;]] [[Whereas the First Line Coalition indicates that a large number of questions are disproportionate and lead to increased administrative burdens;]] [[Whereas much of the information requested can also be obtained by other means;]] [[calls on the Government to review the questions in the annual responsibility obligation in consultation with the First Line Coalition by at least removing duplications and reconsidering whether the requested information is actually going to be used,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people who are late in paying their care premium cannot rely on care from the supplementary package;]] [[Whereas lack of care may lead to deterioration in health;]] [[Whereas the refusal of financial care has an unethical basis;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to adjust the legal options for supplementary health insurance to allow people to receive care from the supplementary package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the approach to young people's loneliness is covered by the overarching approach to social service, which does not set out specific objectives or amounts of money to combat loneliness among young people;]] [[Whereas research shows that loneliness among young people of secondary school age is as common as among older generations;]] [[Whereas, with the One Programme against loneliness, older people have a specific programme to combat loneliness;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the One Programme, to set up a specific programme against loneliness with associated objectives and funding to combat loneliness among young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that oral health and mental health play a prominent role in general health;]] [[Whereas the National Prevention Agreement provides scope for enlargement;]] [[calls on the Government to make an effort to include oral care in a subsequent update of the National Prevention Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that culturally sensitive care leads to improved health outcomes;]] [[considers that culturally sensitive care is not sufficiently secured in the educational curriculum of vocational training;]] [[calls on the government to engage with health and education institutions in order to give culturally sensitive care a place in the training curriculum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that uncontracted district nurses frequently undergo long lead times for the approval of indications;]] [[calls on the Government to work together with health insurers to significantly shorten the lead time for an indication in the case of uncontracted district nurses, based on a lead time of up to five working days, as in the case of contracted district nurses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-79]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-80]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-81]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-82]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-83]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u295	And then we're back to the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[noting that Article 13 of the Health Insurance Act gives the health insurance provider the freedom to determine the level of compensation for non-contracted care;]] [[calls on the government to urge health insurers not to make a distinction in the rates for contracted versus non-contracted care in community care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u296	It will not surprise you, Madam President, that my motion has been co-signed by Mr Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u297	Well, look at that. That is a nice little bridge to Mrs Den Haan himself from the Den Haan Group. I call Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u298	Thank you. First of all, I would like to ask about the amendment. The Minister indicated two reasons why he advised against it. One was substantive and the other was about the cover. I get that last part. I would also like to take a look at that, but I do not entirely agree with the Minister's point of view. In fact, he indicates that a national advisory team has been set up to advise municipalities and in that capacity also functions as a respite driver. However, I would like to refer to Mrs Clémence Ross-van Dorp's report and specifically to Recommendation 6.3, in which she states that improvement of respite at local level should be done by local respite drivers. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to take a look at that. Then I'll take another look at the cover and maybe we'll figure it out together. I had a motion for a different setup of employment contracts to increase the influx into care. I am not going to table that motion because the Minister has indicated that he is prepared to look at that initiative. So I see that as a commitment. He also indicates that an inventory is being made to see how this relates to existing labour legislation. I would just like to ask the Minister when he thinks that this inventory will come. Then I have three motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the sustainability of care is under pressure in the coming years, including due to increasing ageing and new medical technologies and more expensive medicines;]] [[Whereas one of the recommendations contained in the report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy is to establish a social dialogue on the affordability of care;]] [[calls on the government to work out what is needed to launch such a social dialogue, so that the next cabinet can get on with it quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u299	You will not be surprised that this motion was co-signed by Mr Kuzu. Then I have two more motions on the ggz. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are many problems in the youth ggz which often prevent patients from receiving the care they need;]] [[whereas good financing is essential, but that is only part of the solution;]] [[Whereas the problems are also related to culture within the ggz;]] [[Considering that many experts indicate the need for constructive cooperation between municipalities, centres of expertise and expert teams to facilitate finding the way in the care system;]] [[noting the need to increase the influence of parents and children on the decision-making process of their own case;]] [[noting the need for more knowledge-sharing;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a clear, comprehensive vision of the GGZ taking into account all the above issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kuzu, Mr Agema, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u300	I realise that the Secretary of State has already indicated that he is going to do so, but I would like to table the motion because there are a number of specific points in it. Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the ggz many young people with complex aid questions between 16 and 23 years of age are stuck in our care system;]] [[Whereas the transition from the youth ggz to the adult ggz poses major problems which do not treat young people, receive adequate care and/or cannot obtain accommodation in the right place;]] [[noting that many young people feel unheard of and have to wait for treatment, sometimes in inappropriate places;]] [[noting that the gap between the various health care laws prevents these young people from receiving lifelong guidance;]] [[calls on the government to examine how to remove this gap between these health care laws so that these young people get the right care in the right place and how to organise these young people who should be given lifelong guidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kuzu, Mr Agema, Mr Kuiken, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u302	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u303	Thank you. I have three motions. Thank you for the answers of the rulers, as many answers came. But thank you for the answers that came. So three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a shortage of birth care staff;]] [[noting that the recognised MBO training to nurture IG does not provide any assurance that students will start as a caregiver after obtaining the diploma;]] [[Whereas a major shift has taken place in recent years towards the industry-approved learning pathway and training through this route is essential for the labour market in maternity care;]] [[noting that the Internship Fund for Care is about to be extended;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to adapt this fund in such a way as to allow for an extension to sectoral training for maternity care, so as to ensure good maternity care for all families in the Netherlands;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an unhealthy lifestyle is an important cause of illness and this increases the pressure on care;]] [[noting that the Dutch food makers, namely farmers, growers, fishermen and hunters, are hardly directly involved in the National Prevention Agreement;]] [[Whereas healthy food is of great importance for healthy living;]] [[calls on the cabinet to involve the Dutch food makers, as mentioned above, in the National Prevention Agreement so that, together with the professionals themselves, constructive work can be done on healthy citizens in the coming years, no further pressure on care and no need to put people on waiting lists because there is too little care staff or capacity;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an unhealthy lifestyle is an important cause of diseases and this puts more pressure on care;]] [[Whereas the consumption of fresh food products, such as vegetables, fruit and animal protein, contributes to a healthy lifestyle;]] [[Whereas changes in behaviour begin with knowledge;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to examine how food education, including farm education and cooking lessons, can be structurally integrated into primary and secondary education programmes, so that children from an early age can learn how fresh food contributes to healthy life, learn how to cook themselves with fresh products and teach children where their food comes from, so that they can opt more often for healthy and fresh food at a later age, and encourage their parents to cook with fresh products;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-90]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-89]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u304	There is a brief question from Mrs Westerveld about the last motion. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u305	I get the call. It is also very important that young children come into contact with healthy food and learn how it is produced. I'm just finding it difficult, because we're already asking a lot of education. I'm an educational spokesperson. We know that teachers come to us a lot and say: if there are problems somewhere in society, we can solve them. I would like to ask Mrs Van der Plas: could she not better take this motion and this discussion with her to the Education Committee? There we also have a discussion on what the curriculum of education should look like. There we can discuss all the good proposals made for that curriculum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u306	Yeah, that could be true. I have tabled the motion here because I find healthy life essential. We already have the Healthy School, but it's very wide. Healthy food really starts in school. The Minister said just now that every minister should be a little Minister of Health. I can only agree with that. That's a pretty good idea. I also think that every minister should be a little Minister of Agriculture, so we agree on that. What Mrs Westerveld is saying is indeed worth considering, but I ask in this motion only to investigate it. So I'm not saying it has to happen now. But I'll say check it out. Then the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education can work together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u307	Clear. Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say a few words about dissuading the amendment I tabled. If I understand correctly, the Minister would like to wait for the evaluation of the standard of care. This was about transgender care. But that evaluation isn't due until 2024. In the meantime, we will not do enough to shorten the waiting lists. I wonder whether the proposed coverage will allow other measures to be taken to shorten those waiting lists more quickly than only three years from now. Then I'm gonna rattle on three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Ministry of Health Insurance in the Netherlands has appointed a quarter of an hour by the end of 2018 to reduce waiting times in gender care, promote cooperation between providers and work on future-proof gender care;]] [[noting that the VWS Ministry had set itself the target of reducing the waiting times for transgender care by 50% at the beginning of 2022, but the waiting lists have increased considerably and this puts enormous pressure on the mental and physical well-being of transgender persons in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the quarter-timer is currently in talks with health insurers to increase the supply and consider whether the role of general practitioners can be increased in the provision of hormones, but this is not enough to reduce long waiting times;]] [[Whereas it is also necessary to invest in peripheral hospitals and independent treatment centres, guidance and conversion funds for (psychological) care providers in gender care, informed consent and triage protocols, self-help groups, and the coordination of waiting lists by an independent party;]] [[noting that the contract was extended to the quartermaster until 1 October 2022;]] [[Whereas the necessary measures to make gender care more accessible cannot be achieved before that time;]] [[Calls on the Government, in cooperation with Health Insurance Officers Netherlands, to hold the order to the quartermaster at least until 31 December 2022 and, if necessary, to extend it further;]] [[invites the government to involve clients and caregivers from gender care in the steering group and to examine whether the quartermaster has sufficient perseverance to implement the necessary measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas there is no guarantee that funds will go to youth care for young people; Whereas large organisations are in severe weather and other youth care organisations are unable to cope with the collapse of the large system organisations; Whereas this is likely to have a domino effect, with job losses likely to result in an already dramatically worrying labour market; noting that municipalities indicate that the funds for youth care can also be used elsewhere; noting that negotiations between employers and trade unions have failed because employers are not sure of additional income and are therefore unable to raise wages; calls on the Government to: all funds for youth care should be earmarked; to facilitate and finance sound business operations nationwide; ensure that employers and trade unions can reach a collective agreement as soon as possible; and goes to the order of the day. The: This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons. She's getting No. 93 (). [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas youth care is an essential provision determining the future of our youth;]] [[Whereas youth care is under pressure, which is at the expense of providing good assistance to young people and, in cases, even leads to excrement if locked up in isolation cells;]] [[Whereas we are facing a very acute labour market problem due to structural lack of attention for the (right) position of employees;]] [[Whereas the "hard cut" currently maintained between care for young people under the age of 18 and just above the age of 18 causes enormous problems, and youth care should not cease until the "big five" of security of life for young people has been regulated;]] [[Whereas the Youth Journey initiative of the FNV should be taken into account;]] [[having noted that at the time of the COVID-19 pandemic, the use of youth care has increased;]] [[noting that the reform agenda will be presented in February 2022;]] [[calls on the government to bring about drastic improvements in youth care and to include the following in the reform agenda:]] [[an end to confinement in solitary cells;]] [[a formal role of experience experts and social partners such as trade unions at the reform table;]] [[the abolition of the "hard cut" in youth care at the age of 18 if the big five is not reached at that time;]] [[improved (right) position of employees;]] [[and to provide the Chamber with a regular interim update of developments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-92]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u309	I have a minute left on the counter, Chairman, and I'm secretly very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u310	You can take it back to another budget. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that unvaccinated people will not be refused hospital treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[decides to conduct a parliamentary survey on the Dutch government's approach to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has six ic-beds per 100,000 inhabitants;]] [[Whereas in Europe the average is 11.5 ic-beds per 100 000 inhabitants;]] [[calls on the government to scale the number of ic-beds per 100,000 inhabitants to the European average,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a test certificate at this time is valid for only 24 hours for the corona pass;]] [[Whereas the incubation period of COVID-19 is five to six days;]] [[requests the Government to examine whether the validity of the test certificate can be extended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a recovery certificate is currently valid for 180 days;]] [[Whereas the OMT recommends a period of validity of one year;]] [[calls on the Government to extend this period of validity with retroactive effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-95]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-96]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-97]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-98]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u312	And then the final motion. That's Mrs. Agema's motion. I don't know if it's Van Haga/Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u313	It's Van Haga/Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u314	It is actually Mrs Agema's motion, which is equally clear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the (temporary) closure of emergency services is a typical Dutch phenomenon;]] [[calls on the Government to legally prohibit (temporary) closures of emergency services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVI-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u315	It was also tabled by Mrs Agema, or actually tabled by Mrs Agema, and I am delighted to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u316	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. We'll suspend for about 15 to 20 minutes. I'm suspending the meeting until about 7:45. In terms of expectations, I asked the cabinet to give the appreciation quickly, because there is also a budget for Home Affairs. There is little or no time for further discussion, but there are a lot of motions. I'll have the Cabinet prepare and suspend the meeting until 7.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u317	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u318	Mr. Chairman. A single question, a lot of motions and, finally, two points on my part. I'll try to do it all as briefly as possible. First of all, the VVD's question: how does the Pandemic & Disaster Preparedness Center fit into the pandemic preparedness plans? Well, we really have to look at how that fits in best, but I can only imagine that a very good cooperation is to work on the multidisciplinary knowledge development that is needed and the innovation that is of great importance for pandemic preparedness. I went to work there. We talk to them a lot. I think that cooperation will certainly come about. The judgment on the De Vries motion on item No. 41 on labour-saving innovation I leave to the Chamber with reference to the debate. On the Tellegen motion in part No. 43 on personal funding, I leave the judgment to the Chamber with reference to the debate. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 45 on prevention in the long-term care system, I leave the judgement to the Chamber with reference to the debate. Then the motion of the SP in part No. 46 over additional resources, only 2.1 billion. Of course, I do not leave the opinion to the Chamber. I would advise against this motion by reference to the debate. The motion-Hijink in part No. 47. I really need to explain this. I share the intention to do the redesign on the policy side, so on the legislative side, together with something that you actually try out in practice. What I have promised you is that I would very much like to make sure that the whole policy movement that is being made in a legal sense is accompanied by an actual redesign in practice, so that you can make the practice feel the law and vice versa. What this motion does, however, is quite apart from the commitment I already made to you. I think if I supported that motion, I would sit on my successor's chair. And I won't. I could go both ways. I wouldn't advise her for that reason. But that may be a little faint, because we do not yet know what the content of the next coalition agreement will be, so my successor has to get to work. So I think it would be wiser to hold the motion. Then it might just get close. But I'm really gonna leave that to the next cabinet. So for that reason I would like to say: embrace the commitment I made and hold the motion for a moment. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 49.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u319	I shall come back to the motion on part No. 47. Is Mr Hijink going to hold the motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u320	I find it difficult, because I think I have just written down what we have sort of exchanged in the debate. So I find that difficult. Look, the minister actually says, "Do it with that promise." But the commitment was to do so. I do not see exactly what the objection is or what text the Minister is stumbled upon. On the one hand, he says: we do want to examine whether this could be done and how it could be done, and it would also be a good idea to try in practice whether it could work in a few places. I think that's how we discussed it this afternoon, and that's why I wrote it down this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u321	Well, I think it's a little different. Maybe I'll see it a little too sharp, but I see it a little bit differently. What I read here is: to organize as much as possible at district and village level with less competition, to adapt the laws and regulations accordingly and to apply them in parallel as an experiment. Look, we just have the current, standing policy. That's one. Two. There will be a new cabinet that will make new choices, including in the redesign of care for the elderly. Well, if that redesign is to be put on the mat in the sense of system adjustment and so on, then at the same time we need to put in practice a testing ground in which you also show it. That's what I promised you. We are already testing what affects current policy practice and current policy development in all kinds of places in the country. What I believe you are proposing is to focus more on redesigning elderly care, the neighbourhood and the neighborhood in parallel. I have said that I am very much in favour of this way of working: putting legislation and regulation and adaptation together in practice. But the order is "with less competition" et cetera. Yes, I have to stick to the mandate of the present cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u322	Mr. Hijink, do you want to hold the motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u323	Then I think I should simply amend the motion, because the Minister apparently stumbles over the word 'competition'. I'd be happy to write down the contradiction of "cooperation" if he likes it more. I like that, too. Then we do it in such a way that at the moment we are going to talk about a different way of organizing, we are also going to work on... If I rewrite the motion in this way now, would that judgment get Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u324	I guess that's just the commitment I made. So that's consistent. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u325	Then that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u326	Then the motion to part No. 49.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u327	You rewrite the motion and I'll see if I can see any reason to embrace it. So I will respond in writing to the modified motion. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 49 "calls on the Government to investigate the extent to which occasional investments should be made in the exchange of information." I leave the judgment to the Chamber, because that is indeed in line with what we are doing at the point of the Roadiz. Then the motion to part No. 50 of Paulusma and Bikker. I shall leave the judgement to the Chamber, referring to the debate we have had on this subject. Then the motion to part No. 51 from Chicken and Agema. Despite the exotic cooperation I am going to discourage this motion, because it would require a huge adjustment of the surcharge system. Then the motion to part No. 52 from Chicken and Hijink. I think that is a very nice motion, which is also in line with the contributions of a number of other Members of Parliament. I think that's a very nice motion. The request to the NZa, from the second part of the operative part, can be given to her anyway. The first part of the operative part is really intended to achieve a scaling-up. That's, I think, a very nice assignment to get on with. That's what we're gonna do. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 53 of Van den Berg, CDA, and Van der Staaij on the exchange of information. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. Then the motion to part No. 54 on the effects of regulatory pressure. In this wording, I can leave the judgement to the Chamber, also with reference to the debate we have had on this subject. Then the motion to part No. 55 on the dentists. I would advise against this by referring to the debate we did not have at the AO on the labour market two weeks ago. Then the motion to part No. 56 on the cross-domain concern of the member Werner. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u328	So the motion in part No. 56 gets judgment, Room. There is another question by Mrs van den Berg on the motion for a resolution on item No. 55.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u329	Yes, because the Minister refers to the debate on the labour market, but I did not mention it there at all. It is precisely because of the response we received in last Monday's letter that we made another request. That's not even mentioned at all, so I find it amazing that it's then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u330	Excuse me. You're absolutely right. For a second there, I thought it was to make money available for dental school. I thought that was the point. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this, but here we are talking about shortening training. The explanation is thus: in 2007 dental training was extended from five to six years in order to increase quality. It is possible to look at this in such a time, but that is... Mr President, I apologise. I'm going to reconsider this motion. I would like to return to that in writing. I do not like the argument. So I will return to it in writing. Then I'll come back with a judgment that I'm giving at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u331	This is about the motion in part No. 55 by Mrs van den Berg and Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u332	Excuse me, I say in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg. That's not good. Then the motion to part No. 58. Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u333	The motion in part No. 57, I think, is for the Secretary of State. It's about the public campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u334	I think so, too. Yes. The motion in part No. 58 I do not recommend it with reference to the lively debate on this issue. Then the motion to part No. 61 on climate and health. I'd advise against it. You know our commitment. Of course, we also encourage CO reduction, but making all the necessary resources available is very rugged and spacious. Then the motion to part No. 62. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I am particularly concerned about this obligation; I do not feel that much about it. We stimulate everything and everything. Then the motion to part No. 63 on necessary investments. I'd advise against it. There's no room for that right now. Then the motion to part No. 67 on the hospital records. We talked about that. I am not going to cooperate in undermining confidence in the main institution that is helping us through the crisis. Of course I'm not gonna do that. That's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u335	Mr. Van Houwelingen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u336	Yeah, short. But this is the other way around, isn't it? I'm giving you a chance to restore confidence by giving us the figures so we can check it out ourselves. You're turning the argument around!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u337	No. We have really had that debate very comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u338	Yes, you have discussed this at length.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u339	Then the motion to part No. 69 of Van Houwelingen. No. No, because that is really based on the assumption that Mr Van Houwelingen has put forward in the debate. That is what we have had the debate on. With reference to that debate, I therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 70. I also advise against it, referring to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 71. I also advise against this, referring to what I have said about it and referring to the debate that we will have next week. It has nothing, but nothing at all, to do with Article 1 of the Constitution. Then the motion to part No. 76. I do not agree with that first observation, but you could skip that observation that the ic capacity is structurally inadequate compared to other countries and so on, because I would not like to say that at all. That international comparison is not so easy to make either. Yes, we have had ic-capacity shortages in the crisis time, like all other countries, but should that actually lead to a much higher level of ic-capacity? I don't know if the payer's party thinks that's a good idea. So I am not just going along with this observation, but the active commitment to the influx and training of nurses is simply a real support for the policy. In the end, therefore, I am going to leave the judgement to the Chamber, because it is policy support. I'm doing that on this U-turn. I'll do it like this. Then I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 77. For the sake of simplicity, I am going to discourage them by referring to the first-term discussion we have had on this subject. Then the motion to part No. 78 by Bishop of the SGP and Tellegen on palliative care. I'm going to leave this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 79. I am going to discourage it, referring to everything I have said about it in the direction of Mr De Vries and Mr Van den Berg. Then the motion to part No. 80. I'm going to dissuade that motion. Yeah, I'm gonna dissuade them. Then the motion to part No. 83, about culturally sensitive care. It will surprise Mr Kuzu, but I am going to leave that judgment to the Chamber, because I think it would be wise to do so. Oh, you'd rather not, Mr. Kuzu? That's amazing, too. I'm gonna do it anyway. I'm going to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u340	I think there is another question about the motion in part No. 80 was, namely, what was the reason for the dissuade. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u341	It's a good thing the Minister's motion in part No. 81 judgment of the Court of Justice. But the motion in part No. 80...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u342	That was the motion in part No. 83.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u343	Oh, the motion in part No. 83. That's very good, too. But the Minister said about the motion in part No. 80 that he was going to dissuade these. And then he thought for a long time before he did anyway, but there was no argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u344	No, because I thought: that's going to be a very long story, and then the chairman is going to look at me more and more grumpy. The motion states: "calls on the government to consider how to adjust the legal options for supplementary health insurance to allow people to take care of the supplementary package." That's pretty crazy, isn't it? That's not how our system works, is it? You can't do that like that, can you? I just don't see why that's a meaningful thought. I just don't see how I should. It's not unethical at all that the existence of supplementary health insurance is just available? That's just the way it is, isn't it? Why should we want to fight that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u345	If the Minister reads the observations and the recitals, he will also see that when there are defaulters, they will not be able to claim any care from the supplementary package. This causes a person's health situation to deteriorate. As a result, there is ultimately a loss of health. And when it comes to care later, it's only gonna be more expensive. The motion asks to explore the possibilities of letting people who are in the pay-as-you-go scheme get necessary care from the supplementary package. That is something that needs to be looked at again. I don't think that's that crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u346	Here's a bit of a revenge here. If you have not had the debate on a particular point and then a motion is tabled on it, then that debate will only take place when the motion is tabled. Fortunately, in the Netherlands, we have fewer and fewer contributors. We are working very hard to ensure that there are fewer and fewer. Insurance companies do a really good job. That's one. That's very nice. Two is that we really have a very broad basic package in the Netherlands. That really is a very wide package. If you enjoy that basic package of care, you will receive a lot of care. Yes, there are a number of things in the supplementary insurance. But it's not like if you can't claim that, you're gonna go all the way through your hooves. It's not. It is good that we remain a little strict and that people have to pay the bill before they can get supplementary health insurance. Once again, fortunately, the number of defaulters is falling very much. So fortunately, the number of people affected by the motion is falling very much. Is that unethical, as it says here in the recital? No, that's not unethical. That's just a sensible policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u347	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u348	There are still a lot of people who are involved in the pay-as-you-go scheme. Luckily, there are getting fewer and fewer, but there are still a lot of them. At the same time, the basic package has been very different in recent years. There really are a number of things in an additional package that can really be necessary for people. Think of dental treatments where their own contribution can increase considerably. I think the Minister knows the examples very well. So what the motion requires is to look again at the people who really need care from the supplementary package and adjust the situation a little bit. I don't think that's so crazy. I think it is also very ethical to do so for people who need that care very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u349	No, we're really not gonna do that. By the way, oral surgery hasn't been in the package for a long time. The package has not deteriorated at all in recent years. The package is always getting wider. So it's not so shady at all. And by the way, for people with a really low income you still have the city policy. It's much more lucrative of everything and some of it. In short, we're not gonna do it. Then the motion to part No. 84 on non-contracted community nursing services. The motion says it's about the indication, but I think it's about the authorization. If I may understand the motion in this way, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. It's a lot of technique, but I think I understand what's meant. Then the motion to part No. 85 in which the government is asked to urge health insurers not to make a distinction in rates. Yeah, of course I do. We have to do that for a lot of reasons. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u350	The motion in part No. 86 by Mrs Den Haan and Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u351	Yeah, I spotted that set! But first things first. Mrs Den Haan asks me to take one last look at the amendment. Actually, I think that's a good trade. If you look at the coverage one more time, I will look at the content of the amendment and come back to it in writing. Then the motion to part No. 86 on what is needed to initiate social dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u352	You were just talking about the amendment to item No. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u353	Yeah, excuse me. That was a bit of a snack indeed. We have just had a very large journey, for example with the whole dialog paper on ageing. To be honest, I think we should not do the requested thing now. Suppose there is a very exciting assignment in the next coalition agreement around the future of care, then I can very well imagine that you will do it again. But for this reason, I'd like to dissuade her now. Then the birth care and the babysitters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u354	Are you referring to the motion in part No. 87, isn't it? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u355	That's the motion in part No. 89 on the internship fund. Choices about the internship fund, also with a financial implication, I would like to leave to the next cabinet. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u356	Let's see, which one...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u357	That was the motion in part No. 89, I've got it. It was the motion in part number 90, correct. Oh, oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u358	Yeah, the motion to part No. 90.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u359	Yeah, I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u360	And what's the appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u361	Dissuade. The motion in part No. Ninety-two, I'm telling you, too. It is very detailed and really focused on the content of the care. That's just not our job. But I also read the suggestion to extend the quartermaster if necessary. Can I do it in such a way that I dissuade the motion as such, but that I do make a commitment that I am sympathetic to that idea myself, and I am therefore going to ask the farmer to see if that is also desirable by the parties? In any case, I could accept part of the motion for a resolution with that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u362	I am very pleased with that offer. I'm sure I can go along with that. Just because I like to learn: the Minister says that the motion is too much about the concern. I should like to hear very briefly what part of the motion he is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u363	Yes. I'll come back to that in a minute. Because there is room for improvement in the argumentation, as with Mrs Van den Berg's motion. I'll come back to that in a moment for those two motions. Then the motion to part No. 95. That's what I think of the difficult motions. That's a motion stating the obvious; that's just the way it is. Everyone really likes this. If I betrayed her because everyone finds this, you'd exude that you'd be against it or something. But if her judgment gives Chamber, it's like something's really being decided here. That's not true. Everyone's gonna find this. Okay, well, with that comment, I think it's just the judgment of the Chamber. You yourself are responsible for the parliamentary inquiry. That was the motion in part No. 96. The motion in part No. 97, referring to what I have already said about scaling up ic-care. Then the motion to part No. 98. I do not recommend it with reference to the debate on this subject. Then the motion to part No. 99. I'd like to ask you to hold on to it. I also want this period of validity to be extended, but it will take real consultation, including at European level. So I can't just do that for a second. But I want to, too. I would therefore like to ask whether you would like to keep it until I can inform you about it, hopefully as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u364	In many areas, we are different from the European average. I do not quite understand why we have to wait for Europe in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u365	If you say in the Netherlands "yes, fine, do more than 180 days" and all foreign people say "no, don't think so" you don't come across the border so easily. That's kind of annoying. This is where we really need coordination with the rest of Europe. It's just gonna take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u366	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u367	The validity of a test certificate is with us 24 hours and in all our surrounding countries 72 hours. So this argument does not go along, but if you promise me that you will take a good look at it, I would like to continue the motion, but I cannot go along with the argument you put forward. I think it's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u368	At the request of Mr Van Haga, I propose his motion (35925-XVI, No. 99). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u369	Then let's settle down that result. Then there is the Van Haga/Agema motion on item No. 100, on banning the closure of emergency services. We are not going to do that, because it may be that the quality at some point simply cannot be guaranteed. If you then ban a closure, you may suddenly have a quality problem. So we can't do that way. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. Then I have two more motions that require me to check the argumentation. I also had two final comments, but first I will deal with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u370	Then you can make your final remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u371	Then Mr Blokhuis can get to work first and I will report back in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u372	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope I have the right motions left, which Mr De Jonge has not taken on board, but otherwise I will hear. I'll start with the motion in part No. 42 of the VVD. I give it as an appreciation judgment room. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 48 by Mr Hijink. I don't have to judge it, because it's a ruling from the Chamber. The motion in part No. 57 requires a little more attention. This motion is very sympathetic: calling attention to menopause and breaking the taboo on it. These are the good things that Mrs Ellemeet brings to the attention of the House. We should have done that 30 years ago. I find what she asks in the operative part very comprehensive. It's quite the world remodeling, with a lot of approaches. If I had to read the motion so literally, I'd really like to dissuade her. I would like to do a hand-out, namely to talk to the parties that she is talking about, to see what we can do: to put a little more focus instead of shooting a cannon right now, I say disrespectfully. I'm not saying, in that light, if she's interpreted like that: Judgement Chamber. I dissuade her sec as she lies there, but I am therefore willing to do what I just said, namely to engage with the relevant parties. The motion in part No. 59 members of Westerveld and Werner I like to give as an appreciation judgment Chamber. I'd like to add one thing. Part of this is a request to a subsequent cabinet. I'm going to say that with other appreciations. April 1st is fast, if you see what the homework is. I would like to make the point that more time may be needed. In that light, I give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 60 I'd like to dissuade. This motion by Mrs Westerveld is also about those gz-spots. I dissuade her because it's some kind of amendment. Coverage comes from Article 4 of the budget. I just decided it can't be paid out of that. It's got to come from bounty money. So I'm deceiving the motion. Then the motion to part No. 64 by Mrs Van Esch. I'm just waiting for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u374	Yes. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u375	I understand the Secretary of State's point. We made a little mistake here with the cover. That also had to do with the fact that we had to write this motion rather quickly. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if he can give the motion, if we change the cover, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u376	Then I get a little more excited, because then we can see where the money can come from, but then I'm stuck with the point I mentioned in the first term, which is that I'm a little grumpy that the Capacity Body gives a forecast and year by year the Chamber at the request of the participants of that same Capacity Body needs to adjust that forecast. I would really rather talk to the Capacity Body first and then see what else is needed. That's the order I prefer. In that light, I'd like to dissuade her. We saw what happened last year or two years ago with an amendment. That is not an invitation to the Chamber, by the way. The motion in part No. 64 by Mrs Van Esch is a speech-expression, so I don't have to find any of that. The motion in part No. 65 is about those candy and soda vending machines. I think it is a good item on the agenda for the next prevention agreement, but I would add that the homework is for the next cabinet. In that light, I advise against the motion. The same applies to the motion on item No. 66: dissuade. I would add that the food policy sec, which is referred to in the operative part, is really LNV. Also for the motion in part No. 68 says it's up to another cabinet. We are also assuming the wrong assumption that we can move towards a zero rate. That is not acceptable in Europe. Dissuade. The motion in part No. As far as I am concerned, 72 from Mrs Gündoğan is also a question for another cabinet. Dissuade, no matter how sympathetic the content is. The motion in part No. 73 is a speech-expression. I don't need to appreciate that. The motion in part No. 74 has a sympathetic content, but as far as I am concerned she is a request to another cabinet. Dissuade. The same applies to the motion in part No. 75, which is even more important to me in terms of content. Dissuade her because she's a request to a next cabinet. The motion in part No. 81 from Mr Kuzu says: Create a "One against loneliness" programme for young people. I said in my first term that one against loneliness, as it is now taking shape, involves young people. If Mr Kuzu thinks that this is not enough, I would ask him to ask another cabinet to put a programme on it, but not on this cabinet. In any case, I'm not suggesting the motion. Also the motion in part No. 82 is a question to another cabinet. It's a pretty far-reaching motion, about oral care. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 87 by Mrs Den Haan. I understand what she is asking for here, especially in the light of her input on the issue of young people. I would like to consider that, of course, we are working on the Youth Reform Agenda, including from the government, VWS, JenV, in which this type of question is widely on the agenda. As far as I'm concerned, this rides right through there, no matter how sympathetic. I would like to promise that I will include the notions in this discussion, but I would advise against the motion for a resolution. The same applies, with the same argument, to the motion in part No. 88, however sympathetic the content may be. By the way, I do not want to give the impression that we want to change age limits in legislation. That's not in the motion either. I want to promise that we will involve the issues in the discussions under the reform agenda, where we are sitting on the table. But I'd like to dissuade the motion sec. The Van der Plas/Van Haga motion in part No. 89: dissuade. That's a question for the next cabinet. For the motion in part No. 91 is the same, no matter how sympathetic the content may be. That is also a question for the next cabinet. The motion in part No. 93. On the contrary, we have not earmarked the resources we have agreed on with municipalities. So I have a huge problem with the municipalities when I give this motion judgment Chamber. I'm dissuading the motion. We are going to discuss the subject in the context of the reform agenda. The same applies to the motion in part No. 94. I would add as a substantive reason that we are not talking about collective agreements. Mr President, I think I have had the other motions. Perhaps I can count on about twenty minutes for the very big final agreement with the Minister, I would say thank you to the Chamber for the constructive debate. I myself am very pleased that prevention is so prominently on the agenda as well as a lot of other issues. Thank you, Mr President, for the pleasant leadership. I also want to give the people who work in care from this place a huge plume. That's a hugely important job for millions of Dutch people. Finally, I would like to thank the people at VWS who worked day and night to answer questions and the reactions to motions and amendments. A big compliment. So also on this route: thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u377	But the Minister is not here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u378	Thank you. I'm suspending for one moment, because we're waiting for the Minister. There are two motions that still need an appreciation and there is another final agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u379	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u380	Yes, Mr. Chairman. First of all, excuse me for having to do this, but thank you for being able to do it. The motion in part No. 55. I am going to ask Mrs Van den Berg to hold the motion. It could possibly be a useful idea, but there are a number of things going on. The first point is that we really need to discuss this with OCW. OCW should also look at this internationally. You're considering that, by the way. I would like to consult with OCW whether this is at all a movement that we could make again. We've gone from five to six. Could a move help you get back? Or does that, in turn, render the quality inadequate? I just don't know. I can't see that right now. So I'm happy to enter into consultations. I would ask Mrs van den Berg and Mrs Paulusma to hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u381	I shall look at Mrs van den Berg to see if she is prepared to do so. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u382	At the request of Mrs Van den Berg, I propose her motion (35925-XVI, No. 55). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u383	Then the motion to part No. 92. I made the point that it is really about medical considerations. Mrs Simons then asked: where then and how then? This is particularly true of the one consideration that there is also a need to invest in peripheral hospitals, independent treatment centres, training funds and so on. For example, it also says "protocols for informed consent and triage." That's really up to the profession itself. That is one element of the motion that I am saying: ooh! Then the last element. This concerns involving the clients and the caregivers from gender care in the steering group. But the steering committee is really up to the clients. I do not know whether we should talk about it in the way of the quartermaster and sufficient perseverance. If I could make a suggestion to Mrs Simons, I would say: delete the recital which also concerns informed consent, with that long list of subjects which are, in part, really in the medical and professional domain. Finally, I would say that, of course, it makes sense to involve the clients and the caregivers. We do, just not in the steering committee, because that really is a steering group. If you would like to amend the motion in this way, I could even leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u384	I thank the Minister for his explanation and for considering how it could be done. I am going to think about this for a moment, because I am very pleased with the promise that the order will be extended to the quartermaster. I understand what's being said about the peripheral hospitals. But informed consent and triage are just that tricky point with which the questioners of this particular concern sit. But if I can start from the commitment with regard to the quartermaster, I am satisfied for now. I'm gonna think about whether or not to hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u385	Fine. That is what I would like to leave aside the judgment "dissuade" for this wording, but with the commitment that goes with it. Mr. Chairman. Two more things at the end of a long day. First of all, thank you very much for the debate and very much also for the warm words for the people in the care. We often do that here and luckily, because they deserve it very much. We are doing that again today, and rightly so! Mrs Ellemeet has already done so, but I would also very much like to praise the people in the department, because their love for the bureaucratic craft, their love for care and their devotion and loyalty, every time, are invaluable. Without them, I really wouldn't be able to do anything. Without them, we wouldn't be anywhere. For that, therefore, a deep bow and my great thanks. That's for starters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u386	Then finally, really, finally. Traditions are there to honor. It is now a good practice to conclude the second term of the budget debate VWS with a formal word. I am usually addressing Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Van der Staaij is being replaced by Mr Bishop and Mr Bishop thinks "what happens to me now," but we have been doing this for years. Perhaps I should also discuss this with Mr Bishop, because this time, in Mr Van der Staaij's speech, I missed an explicit reference to a Bible text for the first time. Too bad, I'd like to say. Perhaps you, Mr. Bishop, could convey that message as well. But when I heard his contribution this week and those of other members, the biblical story of Naomi and Ruth came to mind. I would like to share that, because it contains elements of the mission we are discussing here today. The core is that we in this country are allowed to take care of each other, to take care of each other and to count on each other, even if it becomes more difficult and the challenges become greater. Those challenges were in the life of the Biblical Naomi. Because of famine, she had emigrated abroad. There she became a widow and lost both her sons. Her youth was over and she let herself be called Mara, bitterness, when she returned to her country. Then, as soon as she needs backup, there's Ruth, her daughter-in-law. She goes very far to support her mother-in-law and actually sacrifices everything. She's even leaving her homeland. Culturally sensitive as she is, I say in the direction of Mr Kuzu, Ruth takes care of her mother-in-law, a caretaker avant la lettre in another country. She's gonna get a lot of stuff. She works hard and she's dedicated, like so many carers and as many professional carers today. Fortunately, there is almost "from the system" there, Boaz, a strong partner who supports her with the help of family law. It is a combination of people who live together, take care of each other and take responsibility, and we also learn from the elderly and appreciate their contribution. Reciprocity between old and young, therefore, because when Ruth and Boaz have had a son in the story, the women say to Naomi, a new grandmother: He will give you back your joy of life and support you when you are old, for your daughter-in-law who loves you and is worth more than seven sons has given birth to him. Naomi took the boy on her lap and continued to take care of him from that moment on. Ruth 4, verse 15 and 16. May I conclude with these images my contribution today? We will need each other, the formal and informal care, the caregivers and the professionals, the elderly and young people. In doing so, we will sometimes have to enter new ways to face up to future challenges, but then we can learn from that story of Ruth and Naomi. We've been given each other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u387	I would like to thank the Minister very much for making up for the lack of a formal word in Mr Van der Staaij's contribution. I didn't realize that. But perhaps I may speak a little more in the spirit of the Minister's speech. It is not my policy, but the workers in the care often remind me of a history in Marcus 2. This is the history in which Jesus learns in a house in Kapèrnaum. The crowd pushes him away and then four friends come along, carrying a paralyzed friend with them. But they can't get through. What are they doing? They don't give up and they "discover" the roof. They take the roof cover off and they let that paralyzed descend at Jesus' feet. You often find this concern with the people who work in the care sector, and that is very appealing to me. And then what happens? Jesus can forgive the sins of that man and makes him mentally healthy. Then he also makes him healthy to the body. That is a perspective I wish you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u388	Thank you. Mrs. Agema, is it also for a formal word?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u389	Oh, no, that's really not for me!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u390	Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u391	I have another request. I can do that in an e-mail procedure, but maybe I can do it here. RIVM makes a dataset of the number of vaccinees in the hospital every two weeks, at least the percentage. If you look at the appearance of those sets over time, it would actually be published today, but it didn't happen. My request is whether we can get that, or whether the Minister would like to include today's latest dates in the letter he is going to send to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u392	Thank you. I'll pass this on to the cabinet. This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport. I thank the directors, I thank the MPs and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-10.u393	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled and we have a final vote on all the budgets and amendments on Tuesday 7 December. I thank you and suspend the sitting for a single moment. Afterwards, the budget treatment of the Interior will start.
