ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the internal affairs budget. I would like to welcome the directors and officials, as well as my colleagues, our support and the people who are following the debate elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u2	I fully understand that these govern ments cannot now move anything further so that we as a Chamber can get that piece, but in the letter, Secretary of State Van Huffelen pretends that I made that request for the first time yesterday. In addition, I would like to make the note that we have been asking for it for a year and a half since the system was taken out of the air because of discrimination. I honestly don't understand what the Treasury Department is doing. She knows it's the room that wants it, and she just doesn't send it. It's said, I'm going to investigate how you can get the information. It just needs to come this way as soon as possible. I'm asking this minister if she can help us in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u3	Good. The Minister will deal with this as soon as possible. For now, I note that this is a fact and that we are continuing the debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u4	I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are glad that we are here tonight and that we see all the spokesmen, because we occasionally looked at the screen tonight with a slanted eye and saw that the previous budget treatment was still going on up to 15 minutes ago. Very much appreciate the fact that we can continue with the budgetary treatment of Home Affairs and Kingdom relations, and that the Secretary of State and I can reply today in our first term. Perhaps I could take up Mrs Leijten's point of order. I transferred the request as it was done here. The colleague, Secretary of State Van Huffelen, has indeed sent a letter in which she undertakes to try to comply with the request. I have heard Mrs Leijten's comment. I will, of course, make it known to the Ministry of Finance, and I will report to Mrs Van Huffelen tomorrow, so that the urgency of the request is known there. But again, in her letter, I really see a commitment to make the effort to get this to the Chamber as well and as timely as possible. Then there is a second point that I would like to make in advance. At the beginning of the debate, by Mrs Leijten but also by others, a few comments were made on the relatively late reaching of the Chamber of a number of letters, documents and reports. I would like to say that this is not the way it should be. It should not be the case that the Chamber is only informed about a number of important matters just before the budget is discussed. I'm not gonna exhaust myself into explaining why it happened so late. The aim must be to inform the Chamber in good time. I'm totally in agreement with that. We will have to do even more to make that happen. The officials have also worked hard over the last few days. We have tried to answer some of your questions in writing. We did see that it might be late tonight, so we tried to put some in the written answer. Those answers are hopefully somewhat timely and I thought they were sent to Members of Parliament in the middle of the day. I have prepared the response for my part along three lines: democracy and the rule of law, public administration and integrity, and municipal finances. Those are the big debris in which I think I can answer most of the questions. I would like to say a few introductory words very briefly and then reply to your Chamber along those three lines. I know that questions have also been asked about living and about the reinforcement operation in Groningen. As far as the questions were very factual, we included them in the written set, but, as the President also pointed out, we had separate legislative submissions on 15 and 29 November respectively. The questions that have been asked, of course, I have heard very well. I hope that we will be able to discuss this with each other again in these legislative reports. Mr. Chairman. That was my introduction to the order and some procedural things. Then there is a brief run-up to the substance. As Mrs Arib said, the department of BZK is sometimes, still, called the mother department, actually representing the interests of the public administration of the Netherlands. That's exactly what I've been working for for the past four years, both for the scenes and behind the scenes. I'm proud of what we've achieved. And that varies, because it's quite a wide package that you do together with the other governments. It ranges from, for example, the establishment of the Environment Act to the organisation of the Dutch Parliamentary Elections of March last year. In any case, the whole pandemic has shown how important it is for governments to work together and be there. The pandemic has also shown that people need to be able to rely on that government and those governments, because there are several of them. But they need to work together as much as possible as one government. This also applies to a number of major transformations. We are still at the beginning of the energy transition. There are also issues such as tackling the so-called social domain and how best to do so, and tackling undermining crime. Even on all these issues, there is not one board, or one board that is solely responsible or that can solve that alone. No, that takes all the boards we have, those three levels of government. And we have the foundation of our Constitution. Much has been said about this in the first term of office. Our Constitution guarantees the fundamental rights of our democratic rule of law. It's not self-evident that that goes well. We saw that in the supplemental affair. We've seen people's lives get damaged. We have seen that this has also damaged the confidence of these people, but also of many more people in the Netherlands, in the democratic rule of law. And we, we are the administrators of power. I'm not talking about the Cabinet, but I'm talking about the Chambers and the Cabinet. These are the administrators of power, who must maintain and strengthen democracy, and in this role must sometimes also curb the government; this is also part of it. That's why we have the rule of law. And that is why we have a rule of law in which the government is also bound by that right, in which we have a separation of powers and a guarantee of fundamental rights. So that's how I look at the basis of our democratic rule of law. I think that debate, discussion and criticism within our democracy are all really necessary ingredients for a vital democracy and that we should never be cramped with it. Democracy is not for scared people; that is often said. At the same time you see that sometimes you are confronted with excesses. Demonstrations and protests are very good, but not if they are accompanied by violence, threats or intimidation. That is what is happening to us in the Netherlands. Drivers, aldermen, mayors, delegates, king's commissioners are being harassed, intimidated. If that happens, I want to support them as Secretary of State and I want to ensure that they receive support. I would like them to know that the rule of law and state are on their side. Those who do not respect the rule of law actually place themselves outside the competition. Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u6	Yeah, let's finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u7	Yes, finally in the first theme. Some Members of Parliament said: last year we were here too, but then in the old building of the House of Representatives, and then many concluded with the wish that it would be our last budget debate. I did. Well, I guess I'd better do that again. I cannot promise, but what I can promise is that the Secretary of State and I will do all we can to help the Netherlands move forward until the last day in this fine office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u8	I see Mrs Leijten wants to interrupt. Before she does, I must say that at the beginning of this debate I failed to agree on the rules of the game with you again. We're gonna do that anyway. Those rules are the same as in the first term of the Chamber. Members may put six questions or make comments, and that is it. Mrs Leijten, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u9	It is right that the Minister should also stand up for threatened drivers. We were together again in Haarlem at a demonstration for the then threatened mayor there. Haarlem is my hometown. It is, of course, also good to continue to express this support. But that rule of law and trust has been violated by the surcharge scandal. And now we are faced with a ruling from the judge in Noordoost-Brabant, who is ticking the Tax Office, the Implementing Organisation Recovery Fees and the Committee on Actual Damage because they are arguing together about who a duped parent in the supplement scandal has to compensate. So two governments are arguing with each other, but that would put the family out of the house. And the judge has to take the time to say: give advance and prevent the expulsion! So in that whole cycle of restoring trust and regaining trust, the judge has to take advantage of this. What does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u10	First of all, in the democratic rule of law, the fact that you can go is a great thing in itself. If the judge makes a ruling, then we must abide by that ruling, as we all know. But that's more general. I do not know the example given by Mrs Leijten. But of course it sounds like something you want to avoid. I think we have said since the government's reaction, including the resignation of the entire cabinet, that we want to do everything we can to do justice to the people who have been victims here. We also see that sometimes that's not easy. The colleague, Secretary of State Van Huffelen, is also regularly here in the Chamber to give texts and explanations. She's looking for ways to do it better and faster. Mrs Arib also asked questions in her term: is it right that governments should sue against each other or appeal against a judgment to a higher court? Again, in general, it can sometimes be useful to do so, but it must never be an end in itself. In fact, if you don't have to... In the event that people are deeply affected in their personal lives, I assume that the parties involved will do everything in their power to prevent it, because they only have one goal in mind, namely to see how they can put it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u11	I'm in touch with those parents and what's going on. Last night, it came out that a judge had to be called in to prevent the expulsion of a recognized duped, because the UHT and the Committee on Real Damage are arguing about who someone is supposed to help. I thought that was really next level. I thought to myself, if I made it up, everyone would say, "Mrs. Leijten, you need a long vacation." And it will. The Minister has just said that tomorrow I will personally tell Alexandra van Huffelen, the Secretary of State who has been appointed to correct this, that the Chamber is waiting for those risk selection profiles that have been used. I'm assuming she's gonna take this, too, and she's gonna say, "Once, but never again." It's a wound in society. The cabinet has resigned, billions have been set aside for the recovery and yet a removal from the courts must be avoided. I cannot explain it anymore, and I really hope that the Minister will say this to the Secretary of State tomorrow and preferably in the Council of Ministers: here we are making the agreement that no more duped will appear before the courts. They need to be helped, instead of being chased down the ropes again, because that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u12	Let me say first of all that I understand very well that Mrs Leijten is very high, let me put it this way. It's all very well for that. I know how involved she is with the parents. I know that Mr Van Huffelen is also very involved and talks to parents every week. Indeed, I speak in general, because I do not know the case. In this case, it might be... Because the judge made that judgment, it prevented what should have been prevented. But again, that's not the route you want to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u13	I also see Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. Maybe I am a little ahead of the Minister's programme, but will the reflection on dealing with the Constitution come at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u16	Then I didn't interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u17	Well, well, well... Come on, this time. I'm still in a mild mood. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u18	I found it very elegant of Mr Bishop, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u19	Yeah, but I know him. I've known him a lot longer than today, and it's always paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u20	I shall come back to that in detail. The first is democracy and the rule of law. I would like to return to the elections on 17 March. Because it was a unique election, and not because of the result. They were unique elections because of the almost historical circumstances of the pandemic that we had to work with. The elections have been conducted safely and the elections have been conducted fairly. We had a 78.7% turnout and therefore they are similar to previous Lower House elections. That was only possible because tens of thousands of people in the Netherlands have worked to prepare the elections, to man the polling stations and, of course, to count the votes afterwards. In this place, I would like to thank those people very, very much for their efforts to make democracy work under these very difficult conditions. But a democratic rule of law, a democracy, is, of course, more than holding elections. I believe it was Mr Sneller who said that democracy needs continuous maintenance, in fact at all levels, including at local democracy and local government level. I say that myself a lot. BZK has been involved in the Democracy in Action programme together with the VNG and also with professional organisations and interest organisations of council members, clerks, aldermen, municipal secretaries and mayors. That's why the program is there. Even before the municipal elections, which are already approaching, all council members, local directors and civil servants may have been reached and helped by that programme in March 2022. They can build on their potential in their local democracy with the help of that programme. It is also about deployment and training programmes for new directors and council members. One of the participants in the program was Mayor Laurens de Graaf van Lopik. I liked that he said: "Democracy is much more than the work of the city council. It's multiform. It's in all the corners and holes of our neighborhoods and villages." And that's exactly how it is. Mr. Chairman. Let me come back to the issue of childcare payments, to the injustice that parents and children have suffered and to everything we have to do to prevent repetition. As a result, there were questions about the Venice report. Mr. Sneller asked for this and Mr. Ceder asked for it. The reason for this report, the child care allowance affair, is, of course, very sad. At the same time, I am actually pleased that, at the request of your Chamber, an authoritative European external institution asked the President to look closely at the Netherlands and our system. If you look at that report, you can see that the report is both critical and constructive. The report states that the Netherlands generally has a well-functioning rule of law with strong democratic institutions. However, on the issue of child care payments, we also see that in the area of That is the criticism we have to face, and that is right. The cabinet has therefore already announced several measures. The Venice Commission also welcomes the reactions of the Dutch institutions. They add 13 recommendations. They are addressed to the various state powers, so part to the cabinet, but also part to the Chamber and the judiciary. Of course, from the cabinet, we are going to do everything that focuses on the cabinet side and which may be added to what we have already done in response to the POK. This includes the preparation of the State Commission on the rule of law to be set up. We also include the report in the actions that are under way to promote more customisation in the laws and regulations and to improve public service provision. I say all this in response to Mr Sneller's question. Mr Sneller also asked more generally how to ensure that when there are warnings, when there are reports, we also take them to heart, that they do not end up somewhere, that it is not all put on the long track and that we do not only find out when it is too late that an instance has already warned us. That's what we do in this case. The same is true of the Amnesty report which has just been issued, which some Members of Parliament also asked about. Mrs Leijten, Mrs Simons, Mr Dassen and Mr Van Baarle pointed this out. That report's there, too. The cabinet sent a response to the Chamber on behalf of the Secretary of State for Finance and, among other things, on my behalf. We take that report to heart and we take it seriously. Public action must always take place within the framework of the law. I'm zooming in on the algorithms. The government must never discriminate. You always have to respect fundamental rights. It's also about privacy. Decisions taken by the government must always be explanatory and justified. The use of algorithms is governed by laws and regulations. Nevertheless, you can worry about whether the algorithms are working properly and whether we can check them properly. Because that is, of course, the crucial question. The cabinet has recently taken steps to ensure a more responsible use of algorithms by the government. Many of these actions in the government's policy agenda are in line with Amnesty's recommendations. For example, the cabinet has developed tools such as the human rights impact assessment in algorithms. It has also made a hand-out to recognise possible discrimination in algorithmic systems at an early stage and thus to adapt and mitigate. Parties with supervisory tasks have developed a standard framework to better control algorithms. Several governments are now gaining experience with working with such an algorithm registry. Moreover, Brussels also comes up with legislation to regulate specific high-risk algorithms. So there's a lot going on here. The starting point for me as Minister for Foreign Affairs is the protection of human rights and the protection of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u21	Is this a natural moment, the end of this subject? It's not the end of the block, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u22	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u23	Then Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u24	I'm glad the natural moment has arrived. The Minister mentioned that government intervention should be explanatory. That is, of course, an important principle of our public administration. The point is that for many victims of discrimination that government action, discrimination by algorithms, is not explainable. Why? Because we are dealing with self-learning algorithms that come up with a mechanism based on internal action that eventually discriminates. The government has made a handout to prevent discrimination in algorithms. Does the Minister know how often the word "self-learning" appears in that hand-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u25	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u26	Proceed, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u27	The word "self-learning" is mentioned twice. With that, I do not want to destroy that hand-out, that huge document, but that word is only mentioned twice. I'm just really worried about the fact that the government is not doing enough at the moment to test those kinds of algorithms and to estimate in advance whether an instrument might eventually become a monster that discriminates enormously against people. There's too little going on to prevent that. I would like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to take another critical look at this hand-out. It's only in there twice. I'm very worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u28	I understand these concerns. I do not hear Mr Van Baarle saying that it should not be possible. That algorithms can learn can be very useful in itself. But of course it must never lead to anything that harms fundamental rights, which harms people's privacy, leading to discriminatory trade-offs as a result of that algorithm. I know that the Secretary of State, who is more concerned about this from the point of view of digitalisation, is going to go into it further. Perhaps he can also answer the specific question on that point. I do not think the starting point is in question. If we can do better, we have to do better. But I think we are in complete agreement on the principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u29	I asked the Minister whether she was still prepared to take a critical look at whether that hand-out was sufficient on the issue of self-learning algorithms. I'd like to get another reaction to that. Second. Wouldn't this be wise? We as a government know so little about what these self-learning algorithms are doing right now. They're black boxes. Maybe as a government we have incredibly many of those algorithms that ultimately turn people into misery through discrimination. Shouldn't we say now: "We don't use these algorithms anymore at times when people are being made far-reaching decisions. We're shutting that down now. We're gonna stop doing that, because we might discriminate"? Is the Minister prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u30	I don't want to go that far right now. I have just outlined the directions in which we are now working. That's pretty solid. We adapt laws and regulations. We ensure that we have a better understanding of the questions of whether we can properly control and track them and whether it is sufficient in that area of self-learning. I'd like to promise that we'll be very careful about that. The starting point is: it must not discriminate. It must not lead to discrimination. If that is the case, it must be stopped or modified. But I wouldn't say in advance that we're already gonna stop things, because we don't know that right. I think it's more important that we get the basics in place, after all, algorithms are really everywhere in these days, and that we'll soon find a way of working where it can't lead to discrimination. Once again, the Secretary of State will discuss the technique in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr. Dassen, I'm thinking the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u32	In the answer we have already received, the Minister talks about an algorithm register. This will be proposed in January. I wonder if that's going to be a mandatory register.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u33	Isn't that something the Secretary of State is about to address?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u34	Then we don't count these. Come on. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u35	I would like to go into more detail on the subject of discrimination and racism. I think that Mrs Simons often says "racism is not an opinion' and I like to quote her "racism is not an opinion'. And so it is. Discriminals are not allowed in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, everyone is equal. In the Netherlands, it doesn't matter who you are. It is still far too common for people to face discrimination and exclusion due to their origin, colour, religion, age or sexual orientation. We will only be able to tackle this persistent problem together by joining forces. The cabinet can't do it alone and the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism can't do it alone. But he's here now. I'm glad. I actually experience all the points that have been made from the Chamber as a support to carry on with this. As you know, Mr Baldewsingh has now started as a national coordinator. I wish him every success from here on in his important task. This is another step towards an even better approach to discrimination and racism. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u36	I see a restless Mr Bosma delirious at the microphone, so I think I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u37	I'm gonna make a little delirious, Mr. Chairman. The minister says that in the Netherlands it doesn't matter what your skin color is and so on. Well, it does matter a lot. In Amsterdam, and since today also in Utrecht, there is a policy to discriminate against white people. In Amsterdam, 30% of the high positions are reserved for people with a migration background. When you read interviews with the relevant alderman, it's about how white men could still be the victims. So discrimination seems to have become just policy. How does that relate to what the Minister has just said? And how does that relate to Article 1 of the Constitution? According to Thom de Graaf, who currently works at the Council of State, that is the cornerstone of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr Bosma has found another example in Amsterdam. He loves to find examples in Amsterdam or have to do with D66 or with me. Discrimination should not be allowed, but equal opportunities should be promoted. The point is that there is no unauthorized distinction between people, but creating equality of opportunity may sometimes be necessary, because there is no equality of opportunity. In other words, you can eliminate discrimination by offering equality of opportunity. I think we've seen over the centuries that nothing goes by itself. Women in the Chamber are doing quite well now, but that has gone much less well for a long time. Female mayors? There's been a lot of names lately, but what's going on? By actively looking for women who apply. That didn't happen on its own. Women in higher positions? Exactly the same. This applies to a lot of groups in our society that do not get opportunities. Then you have to create those opportunities, because equality doesn't happen by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u39	Apparently, I'm getting a sensitive toe with the minister. I also gave the example of Utrecht, where a former colleague of ours, Mrs Linda Voortman, is now alderman. He also comes up with such a discriminatory policy to ward off white people. I think that is contrary to the Constitution. The minister sells that by saying: yes, there used to be opportunity inequality. I wonder what that proves. She might as well make that hard. She won't. But that supposed opportunity inequality would be lifted by discrimination against people right now. Let's just get someone to come up with something that's from Purmerend. He's white. He's always worked hard. His daughter has finally followed a nice education and she is going to apply to the municipality of Amsterdam, or let's take Utrecht, if that is less sensitive. And it's just being banned, because it's white. It's not being accepted, because it doesn't have that sacred migration background. At a time like this, there's just someone being discriminated against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u40	Of course, I do not share Mr Bosma's presentation. In fact, I disagree with him from a to z, without knowing the exact case in Utrecht. If you open up a vacancy and make certain demands on what people should be able to do, and then you say that you want your organization to be a bit of a reflection of the city, then you can take that into account with equal fitness. I do not find that discriminatory at all. Again, I think it's a way to create equality of opportunity. It's not discrimination against white people, just to talk to Mr. Bosma. It's just to make sure everyone has a chance at that beautiful job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u41	No, because it's reserved for people with a migration background. If you don't have it, you don't get the job, it's very simple. A number of jobs are reserved; in Amsterdam 30%, in Utrecht 20%. Anyway, we don't agree. Another example. The Minister is now talking about this national coordinator, Mr Baldewsingh. We remember him, because he was alderman in this beautiful city of The Hague. Among other things, he was concerned with what he called the unwitting of the city hall, and "white" is a racist term for white. He wanted fewer white people at City Hall. Is someone who is clearly engaged in this kind of racist language and maintains racist targets, is that someone who with some conviction can be a coordinator for combating racism and discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u42	First of all, there was a procedure in which anyone who wanted to take up this position could react. Mr Baldewsingh has come out of that as the best, most suitable candidate, and I am very happy about that. Secondly, I think that a lot of people in this room might not be everyone, but a lot of people in this room will recognise that in an organisation various teams function better, that it is better to have different people together, that you achieve the best results. Finally. I do not know whether Mr Bosma has ever passed the city hall in The Hague. That is quite white from the outside to see, and that was the metaphor used by Mr Baldewsingh at the time. Because his goal was to make sure that I also sketched that in that beautiful, white town hall there would be more a reflection of The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u43	No, that white had nothing to do with the outside of town hall. That just had to do with white people getting out. It was also the list leader of the Labour Party, the same party as Mr Baldewsingh, who simply said: there are too many whites working here, so they just have to get out. You can just see that on YouTube. That's what's going on. The beautiful story of "look at me fighting for justice and equality" just means white people have to get out. And I think that's contrary to the Constitution. I would like the Minister to give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u44	Yeah, but that was my first answer. Mr Bosma may not have heard that. I said that discrimination should not be allowed if it is an unauthorized distinction. If you can justify why you are making a lawful distinction in a particular situation, then you can. Then it is not discrimination. That's how the circle is round again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you. Please continue. Oh, Mr. Van Meijeren. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u46	The Minister says that discrimination should not be allowed. Now, in the last committee debate on discrimination, I have called for attention to be paid to the discrimination against unvaccinated people. Even then, the Minister said that there is no discrimination here, because the QR code applies only to non-essential provisions, such as discotheques, and access to essential services remains open to everyone. Quite apart from the fact that this is not at all the right criterion to determine whether or not there is discrimination, I feared that the list of places for which the QR code is mandatory would only grow. I am sorry to say that I was right and there is already a mandatory QR code in the workplace and in education. My question is therefore: can I assume, in the light of what she said in the committee debate, that the Minister will now go against this policy? Or does it consider the workplace and education to be non-essential?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u47	First of all, there is no mandatory QR code in education and in the workplace. Let me say this about it, because I think it is an important subject. It is precisely the Constitution that obliges us to take measures to promote public health. We are dealing here with a very exceptional situation, a pandemic that we have never experienced in this way before. That's also a fundamental right. People in the Netherlands need to know that we are doing everything we can to protect public health. There is no question of exclusion or discrimination at all. I know that Forum always says that, but it would be a credit to Mr Van Meijeren if he respected that the Constitution is more than what he is now describing, that it contains more fundamental rights and that you have to make a weighting. That is what we are doing, and we have done so very carefully in this pandemic. There have also been a lot of debates in this Chamber on the Temporary Law measures and on all kinds of practical measures for people. Certainly, they are far-reaching, but there is a careful consideration under that, and it is also made here, in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u48	Firstly, we are now openly discussing a mandatory QR code in education and in the workplace. We are looking forward to a budget debate, and this is coming. So the Minister can also anticipate this. But even so, if she claims that all of this is in the interest of public health and is therefore necessary, then we come back to this perpetual lie that this policy would have anything to do with public health. Because if this policy were necessary for public health, care capacity would have been scaled up over the last 18 months and the vaccinees who have been tested positively would not have access to social life. Unvaccinated people who can prove that they are immune, for example by means of an antibody test, would have access. Then medicines that are effective would not be banned. Prevention would then be used, for example by reducing VAT on fruit and vegetables. How can the Minister maintain that such a mandatory QR code, which does indeed lead to stigmatisation, exclusion and discrimination against unvaccinated people, is necessary for public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u49	I am a little hesitant about how to respond to this, because it starts with a statement that I would like to place under the heading 'fake news'. I want to say two things about it. Firstly, the review of the Constitution: we have always made the constitutional balance that you have to deal with. It was not just the cabinet that made it; the parliament also discussed it very extensively with the cabinet here. So we are not doing this lightly, because no one wants people to be excluded. On the contrary. We are trying to include everyone, but you have to consider: how far can you go to give people freedoms if they go at the expense of the freedom or health of another group? That is the balance that we always have to make with each other. The second thing I would like to say is that if Mr Van Meijeren considers the Constitution and non-discrimination so extremely important, then I would like his party, and perhaps himself, to take a more serious look at the other aspects of the Constitution. I hear him spreading fake news about the pandemic here, but I never hear him discuss our Constitution seriously and how we should work on our Constitution. No proposal has ever been made. Mr President, let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u50	Shall I chair, Mr. Bosma? Or would you rather do it yourself? Yes, you may be annoyed, but if you want to make a noise, do so in the walkway. Mr. Van Meijeren, you want another interruption; that's clear. But the debate on corona will probably take place again next week, so try not to make it too much of a corona debate. Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u51	It's about discrimination now. The prime ruler for this is the Minister of the Interior, so I am glad that, after all these corona debates, I can finally ask the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for this. Mr Bosma is not the only one who is annoyed by the Minister's "answer" because she accuses me of spreading fake news. She said my first statement is fake news. My first point was that a mandatory QR code in education and in the workplace is being openly discussed. Am I to understand that the Minister thinks this is fake news? Or does she find anything else I said, fake news? I'd like a reaction to that. Then I will continue with my further argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u52	No, that was about denying corona as a disease and making all kinds of inferences. You started by saying that QR codes are requested in education and in the workplace. That is not the case. That is something else that can be discussed, but that is not the case now. We must always look at what measures are needed. This must always be assessed in the light of fundamental rights. These fundamental rights are sometimes at odds with each other, which is why you have to consider them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u53	I did not say that there is currently a QR code required in education. I just said it's a matter of fact. In short, it is being discussed. I would also like to point out that this is already the case in a number of places. People who, for example, follow vocational training as lawyers can no longer do so without a QR code, because these courses are given in catering establishments. In addition, the Minister is lying so hard that I deny that Corona is a disease. No. We only note from the science, which the Minister apparently denies, that corona is a cold virus with an infection fatality rate of about the same size as the flu and that all these measures are therefore disproportionate. Then she's accused us of discrimination. She brings in all sorts of things. We assess everyone on the basis of personal qualities and characteristics and are never discriminatory at any time. I would like to ask again why the Minister now believes that this QR code is necessary in the interests of public health. How is it that for the first time since time immemorial we need a QR code in one go to fight a virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u54	I don't tend to do the corona debates about this either. I believe that Hugo de Jonge has already spent quite a lot of time on this subject today. There will indeed be another debate. But I would like to say that these measures were taken in an exceptional time and in an exceptional pandemic, with a virus that we didn't even know until a year and a half ago. They have indeed been very special measures. They have been restrictions on freedom, for all of us, for all of us Dutch, for many Europeans, for many people in the world. You'd rather not. People's freedom is a great asset. The QR code and the corona tickets are accessible to everyone, to people who choose to be vaccinated and also to people who choose not to. That's been well thought out, just to make sure people have a choice. I also think that we will simply not agree on many points. I am glad to hear Mr Van Meijeren say that he attaches himself to the fact that there is no discrimination. At least we are in complete agreement on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u55	You still want to ask? I would remind you that you have already had four interruptions. You're aware of that, aren't you? You have six. But that's fine; it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u56	Unfortunately, it is necessary to use so many interruptions because the Minister keeps avoiding questions. For example, she has still not answered my very specific question as to why this QR code would now be necessary in the interests of public health. That only confirms my view that this policy has nothing whatsoever to do with corona....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's criminal; that's criminal. The Forum for Democracy will fight this misguided policy for as long as it stops and, if I may say so, those responsible have been sentenced to prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u57	Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but this is so much bullshit that I can't respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u58	I'm looking at Mr. Van Baarle. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u59	Was the Minister at the end of her reply on the subject of racism and discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u60	Sure. I would also like to refer to a number of written questions, which have also been answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u61	That's right. Then I would like to ask one more question. The Minister indicated that he was not in favour of introducing a reporting obligation for discriminatory expressions and discriminatory behaviour in the government. I wonder if she could go into the why a little further. Because when we refer to the most painful example where this went wrong, namely the surcharge scandal, we see that there is actually a need to ensure that people report discrimination to the government. Procedures have been put in place to help people suffer on the basis of discrimination. There have been countless people involved. Everyone was standing there and looking at it. Nothing was reported. Why should the Minister not be in favour of reporting when there is clear discrimination? And not all forms of discrimination are actually punishable. You also have behaviors that are not covered by criminal law. But if there's any obvious discrimination, you just call it in. That's the norm. You report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u62	I think that Mr Van Baarle agrees with me on one point, namely that it has actually gone wrong in that case. If there's a report coming up, apparently something went wrong in the system. After all, discrimination is not allowed. Discrimination must not be allowed by anyone, but certainly not by civil servants and by governments. I'm not against a report. In fact, if it does occur, it is of course wise that something should be done about it. This can only be done if it is detected and reported, or by the person experiencing it, or by someone else in the organisation who sees it. You start with a reporting obligation as far as I'm concerned on the wrong side. The basis is already there. The same applies to the oath of office, which I believe Mr Van Baarle has already asked a question about. You say that you make it explicit that something that isn't allowed isn't allowed. There's no right to discriminate. It already is. So I find it complicated to have a duty of notification at the end of the journey. I prefer that you do it so well at the beginning that it just can't happen. There may be reports, of course, but that is not what I think you are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u63	As far as I'm concerned, it's and-and. I fully agree with the Minister that there is a great deal of preventive action to be taken. I agree with the measures she is taking, although as far as we are concerned, of course, we can always do more. We also support the Minister's measures. We are pleased that this minister is doing so. On the other hand, in addition to prevention, there must be a standard, a standard. That norm must be: we do not accept things. If we see that, despite all these preventive measures, it is still taking place, then it would be a good thing if we, as a government, said that we do not consider discrimination against our inhabitants so essential that we make that explicit. It happens a lot, not only with the Tax Office, but also with the police and the Marechaussee. These are simply discriminatory practices. It would then be good to make it explicit. We'll make it the norm. Why is the Minister not in favour of and-and: that the standard is both prevention and reporting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u64	I think we're almost in complete agreement. I fully agree with Mr Van Baarle when it comes to standards. There's that standard. He only concludes that this standard is only complete if there is a notification requirement. And that's where our roads don't go all the way to each other. Anyway, I'm gonna let his words work out for me. Once again, we do not disagree on the objective, but on the instrument for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u66	I would like to return to the Constitution and its fundamental nature. That's right. It's very fundamental. At the same time, it has all kinds of interfaces in practice, as the debate on the interruption has just shown. Each legislative procedure shall take place after a constitutional test has been carried out. So all draft legislative proposals undergo this constitutional test. This is an integral part of the legislative procedure. As I have just said, this has happened all the more in the case of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. We have also taken a number of other steps, including in connection with the childcare allowance affair. We are trying to improve further the provision of information to the Chamber. We have started to actively publish policy notes and decision notes. If we come to the conclusion jointly as a constitutionalist that the Constitution needs clarification, there will also be proposals for this. For example, we have a review of the constitutional review procedure. It has now been accepted at first reading. It has now been referred to your Chamber at second reading. So that Constitution is the foundation and, at the same time, something that is being worked on again, with all due care. We have to respect him, because that's what the Constitution is for. That's incredibly important. That's actually our expensive duty. At the same time, it is not always clear in advance how the Constitution is to be interpreted, exactly how it is to be applied. The Prime Minister said the same here in a debate. It was then about the appointment of some MPs as State Secretary in the Demissionary Cabinet. There is a need for interpretation. And we do that to the best of our knowledge and best of our ability. But it has to be done. And that sometimes leads to a debate, and that sometimes leads to a review of how you want to interpret it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u67	So far about the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u68	I have a few points on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u69	Then why don't we just finish it, Mr. Bishop? Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u70	It was also about the Constitution in a more material sense. Mr Ceder would like to give that Constitution a more prominent place in the courts in our country. I think that's what he asked. This is in line with the motion for a resolution which I believe has been adopted in order to give the Constitution a proper place in the Chamber. This motion was submitted to the General Political Reviews. I find the idea of giving the Constitution a prominent place in the courts interesting. I can also remember from my history study that we have the tradition that even up to 1983 our Constitution even stated that 'changes in the Constitution are plegtfully proclaimed by the King and the States-General and are annexed to the Constitution'. That was a solemn proclamation in practice. At a public session of the Supreme Court, as well as at the courts and in every municipality, the clerk made a constitutional amendment from the burgundy of the town hall. There are beautiful pictures and even image fragments of them. Herauts on horseback and trumpets led the whole thing. It may go a little far to reintroduce that, but I think it would be nice to pay attention to that. I would be happy, I say to Mr Ceder, to discuss this initiative with JenV's colleagues. They are, of course, responsible for justice. Of course, I am also very curious as to how the Chamber will implement the Omtzigt motion. Maybe we can make a nice whole of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u71	It would be nice if a binding process could be made of that, surely. But then I shall come to the Minister, in the sense of: let us cross swords. This is very much in contrast to the nonchalance of the Constitution, which has been reinterpreted in some parts. The Minister himself also referred to the appointment of MPs as outgoing directors. That is a different interpretation of the Constitution than it had been given up to now. Then there comes a rather careless note that says: no, no objection. The Chamber will then seek the advice of the Council of State, and do everything and everything to reach a verdict. If there is to be an alternative interpretation, one can expect that from the cabinet there will also be care taken to ensure that the Chamber I do not want to go into the matter myself, but I also mention the discussion about the succession of the throne and the position of the royal marriage. What has been sent to the Chamber contains a substantially different interpretation from that laid down in the legal history at the time of its establishment. Surely this should be the subject of a state-law debate in all openness? That is actually the question I put in my contribution and which does not come back in the written reply. What can we expect from the cabinet in this respect, so that more care and attention is given to how fundamental the Constitution is? Because if we deal with this carelessly, we will destroy one of the foundations of our democratic rule of law. That is the concern behind my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u72	I think that, of course, is a very good argument. As Minister responsible for the Constitution, I think it is good that Mr Bishop says that we should not be neglectful about this. I would like to underline that, because I agree with you. My department has the constitutional affairs department, which carries out the legislative review and needs to be consulted when it comes to constitutional matters. Let me give you some examples. I don't want to take them all the way down. I think, in general terms, that you should always be able to have that state-law debate with each other. I think that the cabinet should deal with these kinds of considerations carefully. But let us take as an example the missionary status of the cabinet. This has been the case for a long time, and we are dealing with the departure and loss of colleagues. A certain speed is required. There's been a trade-off. There has actually been an interpretation of it, which the cabinet also knew was an interpretation. It was actually a reversal of the wording in the Constitution. This interpretation has led the Chamber to say: we wonder if that interpretation is correct. This has once again led the Council of State to look at it. The Council of State actually said that both interpretations are possible, and you must come out together there, dear Chamber and Cabinet. The Chamber has given its opinion on this matter and, of course, it has had consequences. Moreover, before the debate, my fellow Members have already decided to resign from their parliamentary membership and not to go further in this dual function. I think this is an example of how to converge gradually from different starting positions towards an interpretation of the Constitution that has not been 100% unambiguous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u73	Thank you. Mr. Bishop. Briefly; pointy, as we are used to from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u74	Yeah, I'm definitely gonna do that now. The Minister is indeed putting his finger on the issue. It's been discussed, but that's because the Chamber forced it. I am concerned about the lack of sensitivity expressed by these examples. So my question is: how do we get that greater sensitivity from the cabinet, so that as a state-general and as a government, you stand together to guard that fundamental meaning of the Constitution? That shouldn't depend on the Chamber's dissatisfaction with a note. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u75	Yes, I agree with Mr Bishop. I do think that the cases he mentions are of very different order. In the case of the appointment of a number of Members of Parliament as Secretary of State, I have at least explained that there are several reasons. There must be careful consideration. At the same time, there is sometimes a rush. This has led to the situation that the Chamber has indeed asked for the debate and for the information of the Council of State. In the end, through the debate, this has led to a shared interpretation. Could it have been more careful? If you look at it from the Constitution, of course, we could have shared that recital with the Chamber first and only then could we have taken office. But that is, of course, very difficult politically. Again, the end is I think... Mr Bishop is particularly dissatisfied with the way forward; I am not thinking so much about the end. Let me put it this way: I think the role that Home Affairs should play is very important. My Directorate for Constitutional Affairs can also play that role, because it is extremely well-equipped for that. There are very expert people there with regard to the Constitution. They can be well consulted and can provide ample advice on these kinds of matters. I would like to take Mr Bishop's words to heart in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u76	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u77	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am actually on my way to the next section, public administration and integrity, but I would have liked to say something to Mr Bosma. I'm so sorry he's gone. So I'm gonna keep that for a while. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to discuss public administration and integrity. I think it is very important that there is a great deal of attention to integrity policy. The functioning of public administration, the actions of political ministers and the confidence that people can have in public administration is, of course, affected by that integrity. Several MPs, including Mrs Rajkowski and Mr Dassen, have urged the cabinet to make haste with regard to those recommendations made by GRECO, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption body. I see that importance, too. I see that importance. I take the recommendations very seriously. I've told the Chamber that before. I also think it is necessary, in line with those recommendations made by GRECO, to come up with further measures for directors who are looking for a new position or that kind of thing, because that is what these recommendations are about. At the same time, this is also a dilemma. You can't realize that from one day to the next. Mr Dassen had read in the newspaper a few weeks ago that people might think: if I become a ruler, can I still work after that, can I go on after my ministry? There are also many people who attach great importance to the fact that ministers do not remain in waiting time arrangements. That's also a trade-off. We would also like people from outside to join that cabinet and accept that office if there is a new cabinet. Of course, you will also consider: what can I do after that? That's the kind of dilemma we have to solve with each other. But that does not alter the importance I attach to the recommendations made by GRECO. I can promise the Chamber that I will send a letter as soon as possible in which we will work it out. This concerns the issue of outgoing directors and post-Ministery posts or the Secretary of State. Mr Dassen also asked for attention to be paid to lobbying and, in particular, to the lobby register. GRECO has, of course, made recommendations on this too. We intend to include this relationship with lobbyists in rules of conduct for directors. We can now, of course, have a lot of paperwork prepared. It is up to the next cabinet to decide how that happens. For example, BZK is working to make that possible. I would like to say to Mr Dassen that we are not thinking in the first instance of a lobby register, because it only contains static information. That actually does not give an insight into whether there is actually influence going on and whether you can recognize that influence in certain decision-making processes. So we are actually looking for a non-static but dynamic way of measuring and registering lobbying activities, because I attach great importance to the openness of decision-making. That is actually very important. We have, of course, already made the agendas of the directors public. They provide insight into the development of laws and regulations. So we have already taken steps in this respect. The publication of the decision notes will also make it much easier for the Chamber and the outside world to understand how such a policy process is going to be implemented. We do not have an official supervisor in the Netherlands dealing with lobbying activities. This does not mean that lobbying activities can take place here without any restrictions. We have a Code of Conduct Integrity Empire. Both chambers have codes of conduct. These are specific cases. Your Chamber itself, for example, has taken certain steps with regard to the tobacco industry. I therefore believe that we in the Netherlands do attach great importance to doing this carefully. But once again, a register is merely a record of what is in the agendas of the rulers. Those agendas are already public when it comes to these kinds of agreements. So we're looking for a way to go even deeper with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u78	First of all, let's go to the cooling-off period. I heard the Minister say, to which I also referred, that we should not, of course, immediately have to stop people from taking up the office of minister because they will not be able to take up office afterwards. Personally, I wonder if that would really be a consideration. Hopefully our ministers will be the best people in the Netherlands, who will take up this office. I can't imagine them really having to worry if they'll be able to resume their duties afterwards. The motion also mentions a monitoring body, precisely to ensure that they do not have to wait for it and therefore do not have to use the waiting money. At least it'll be tested. My specific question is how the Minister will implement the motion that is before us. That's what I was curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u79	Does Mr Dassen mean the motion on the cooling-off period, the Dassen motion? We involve them in the implementation of GRECO's recommendations, insofar as they deal with the question of how people who leave the office deal with them. It is, of course, incredibly important that this should be done in an honest way. Even the appearance of conflict of interest must of course be avoided. A cooling-off period is an element. But the same goes for the ban on lobbying. The same applies to revolving door structures. These are several elements of the recommendations of GRECO that we are examining and on which I would like to inform the Chamber in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u80	This is not entirely an answer to the question. I wonder if the Minister is going to carry out the motion as it has been described. I think it's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u81	The motion is certainly clear, but I also have the recommendations of GRECO. The motion sees one aspect of it, namely the cooling-off period. There are other parts as well. I've informed the Chamber about the ban on lobbying as there is. I mentioned the revolving door construction. So we really want to go a little wider, but the cooling-off period is going to come back to the Dassen-Dassen-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days-Days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u82	Thanks, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u83	Thank you, too. Do you have any other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u84	Yeah, it was also about the lobby register. That is also one of the recommendations. I heard the Minister say that this is too static and that you cannot record everything in it. But there are a lot of examples from other countries of registers where you can give a lot of information about the intended objectives. Who are you talking to? What is the intended result? This is recorded by lobbyists themselves. So that doesn't have to do a lot of work for administrators or civil servants. I therefore wonder whether the Minister agrees with me that these are really very good solutions to ensure that transparency is greatly increased and that it becomes clear where the influence on power in the formation of the policy process comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u85	Well, that's what we're all agreed on. But here too, as was the case in the debate with Mr Van Baarle. I had the impression that if you were enough with just the register, that would not achieve what Mr Dassen is now describing. Conversely, if we needed a register to achieve that, we can do that. The register is just the instrument. It's about transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u86	Mr. Dassen. You're almost through. I don't know what else you're up to tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u87	I don't know. It's gonna be late here every night. So we never know. Let's go back. My concern lies in the following, which also came back yesterday in the debate with Mr Sneller. What exactly is the cabinet coming up with? Actually, my concern is in here. I hope the Minister can take that concern away. After all, I have another motion on the lobby register that has been held. We're slightly rewriting that motion, or we're going to file it. My concern is that there will soon be a proposal from the cabinet that gives far too much freedom in this process, that we as a Chamber have barely been included in it and that we will then be faced with a process that is said to be: let us first see how this works. My question is whether the Minister can give a little more clarity about what she is going to look at and how she is going to prevent too much non-committality in this process. I'm tasting that a little bit now, and I'd really like to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u88	On that point, I would like to reassure Mr Dassen. As I said, the starting point is the recommendations of GRECO. Well, I think Mr Dassen is very interested in that too. They are more comprehensive than just the lobby register or just the cooling-off period. That is why we are considering this now, and then broader than just those two points. That is why I think that when Mr Dassen receives that letter from the cabinet, he will be able to assess whether he thinks that we are sufficiently in line with the recommendations made by GRECO and whether we are sufficiently structured. Of course, the Chamber can also give its opinion on this, because it may still have to be incorporated into some of the legislation. The Chamber is therefore still fully covered. I would now like to say that I hope I will not disappoint Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u89	That's good. Mrs. Rajkowski.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u90	Thank you for the commitment on the letter. I could not quite tell from the commitment whether the letter is only about the item at the time that directors resign or whether it is also about the other measures mentioned in the Tuesday letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u91	No. It is very good that Mrs Rajkowski asks, because then I can specify it immediately. We've said before that you actually have three stages. I believe that the Prime Minister has informed the Chamber about the phase of proposing and taking up office. We have already done something there on a number of points. Then you have the post phase and that is where the letter is looking at: the cooling-off period, the ban on lobbying and that sort of thing. The cabinet has also said that it is preparing matters relating to the lobby register and the rules for the period during which the office is to be held. But we leave it to the next cabinet to implement it. That's how it's structured. This means that all of GRECO's recommendations are covered, but we do not want to pour everything out from this cabinet over the Chamber at once. But that really sees what happens after the post.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u92	Well, I'm sorry about that. I can imagine that the present cabinet may not be able to draw up and complete all the concrete measures in this way. I understand that, but I would still encourage the cabinet to continue with the points that the cabinet is not expecting to conclude. I say that because the new cabinet will not have to start thinking from the outset about what they really want if they are to work out these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u93	Then I can reassure Mrs Rajkowski, as in any case Mr Dassen. We're not sitting still. The Ministry doesn't sit still and prepare all that. Once again, we hope to be able to make some proposals to your Chamber. Some of them are ready and that means they're just working on it. I can also make that clear in the letter we send to the Chamber. We have passed through all the recommendations in preparation for this debate, but I can ensure that the next letter, in which we do make proposals in parts, also provides an insight into the other part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u94	Is there anything to say about when that letter comes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u95	It is almost November and, as far as I am concerned, it must happen in the month of November, if only because there is also a formation going on, which hopefully will come to an end at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u96	The Minister writes: because of the missionary status I cannot continue. I think it is very chic of the VVD, which voted against the motion on Tuesday to actually implement those recommendations, which it is now saying: go on with it. In my term, I asked what the cabinet needs to put aside that argument "demissionary." Mr Dassen's other motion is being carried out and I do not quite understand what the Minister is still standing in the way of simply implementing this part of those recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u97	We're missionary. That's a fact. Nevertheless, the Chamber regularly urges us to take certain steps despite our missionary status. With that support and also in view of the Dassen motion, I have said to my fellow Members that it seems useful to me to at least deal with the issue which has been the subject of a lot of discussion over the past few years. How do you deal with outgoing rulers and what exactly are the rules? Take steps. The same applies to the appointment of new rulers, in which we have also taken steps. Then there is one part left, namely the one about the integrity during the post. Can we improve on that, too? It's a lot of recommendations from GRECO. I believe that with these steps we are moving in the direction of what the Chamber has requested. We'd like to do it carefully. Once again, officials are not sitting still. We will ensure that the next cabinet on that other part will also be able to make proposals. But, yes, some restraint on our part may well be expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u98	Yeah, but at the same time I think those recommendations, they're 16, aren't really from yesterday. So "from one day to the next" isn't really in question. In response to questions put by Mr Van Baarle and myself in June, it was said that we are already working on them. If there is such broad support for the introduction of this kind of thing during the post and for new rulers to know what they are signing up for, that is fair, if all of us want it, then I wonder what else is needed from the Chamber. That motion was passed on Tuesday. What else is it gonna take from the Chamber to just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u99	The Minister, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u100	Let me put it this way: I feel very much supported by the Chamber and I will involve all of this in the letter that the Chamber can still look forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u101	Thank you. Please continue. I don't know how far we are in the block of public administration and integrity. It's done, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u102	Well, actually, I think I can finish that part after all these interruptions. But I still want to say a few words about threats and intimidation. And I also have a few questions from Mrs Leijten about whistleblowers, and then I have finished that theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u103	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u104	Threat and intimidation. Of course that also has to do with integrity, because the opposite is that you treat people with integrity but the other way around we unfortunately see too much. As Secretary of State, I have a lot of contact with local administrators, and I can tell you that that does something to a human being, and also to their neighbors. We shouldn't forget them, either. We must never find it normal, because it really undermines democracy and it can affect all of us. In 2018 I started with the Network Weerbaar Bestuur, a network that does prevention, which ensures that new mayors, for example, get a scan of their home for security and that sort of thing. But that network must also ensure that if it happens to you, such an annoying situation, a threat, then there are others, former drivers often, who offer a listening ear, to whom you can tell your story, who can give you advice because they have experienced it themselves. By the way, I often contact people personally. We have a team available that can provide advice and support. And that works. You'd rather not do it, but I'm afraid I have to, and that's why I'm happy to do it. I always call everyone to report it. It happens all the time. Do something with it, never think "it's part of it," because it's not part of it. Report it, do something about it, because then the police and the D.A. can take this as a priority. It really needs a lot of attention. We have also made funds available for undermining on Princess Day and part of it will go to administrative resilience. I am in agreement with my colleague in the field of justice and security, and we are going to step up this approach to threats from political officials. We are also going to look, because that is what we are dealing with, at vulnerable processes within municipal organisations. It is a very important subject for me, because I simply want the people who work for us, for democracy, to be able to do so without fear of their own security. Mr. Chairman. The last part is the theme whistleblowers. Mrs Leijten drew attention to this, because, like her predecessor, she thinks that we should take good care of whistleblowers in the Netherlands. The Court raised questions and commented on the draft law implementing the European directive on whistleblowers. Those comments are clear and, of course, I have seen them well. I will shortly send a note following the report and a letter of amendment to the Chamber. That directive is there and I really think it is crucial that it be implemented as soon as possible, because it is intended to improve the legal status of whistleblowers, for example by shifting the burden of proof in the disadvantage of whistleblowers. This makes a really important contribution to a more level playing field between the whistleblower and the employer he is dealing with. Moreover, I have already informed the European Commission that the Netherlands may not be able to implement the directive in good time, because it must do so already on 17 December of this year. The European Commission knows that. Of course, it assumes that we will do everything in our power to implement this directive as soon as possible. The Commission has stated that it attaches great importance to the timely and correct implementation of this directive. Late implementation may lead the European Commission to take enforcement measures against the Netherlands by means of an inter-group procedure or an action before the European Court. But once again, that is not really at the heart of the matter. At the heart of the matter is that we must always work to improve the protection of whistleblowers and prevent adverse effects. I would like to say, and I say this here, that we can proceed with this. I would very much like to have the debate with the Chamber after the Chamber has been able to take note of the letter of amendment that is coming. In addition, I aim to be able to submit the bill to your Chamber as soon as possible following the review of the Whistleblowers' Wet Huis. This also serves to further improve the protection of whistleblowers. Part of what came out of the evaluation is through the implementation of the Directive, but part of it has to go through a separate route. Mr. Chairman. That was the second part of my answer. Finally, I have the municipal finances. This is an extremely important subject, which I have often debated with the Chamber. If we look now at all the things that we know must happen, such as the energy transition and the resolution of the housing shortage, then we know that we also need to consider the administrative and financial relationships that lie underneath. I've already informed the Chamber about that. The municipalities are an incredibly important partner in these issues. Administrative and financial relations must be better balanced with everything that needs to be done, because of course it can never be the case that the Empire makes policy with the wallet of the provinces and the municipalities. As Secretary of State, I have to take care of that. By the way, we can of course expect them as partners to contribute according to their ability. This includes that we can have the conversation with each other and that there are no dogmas in the conversation about what tasks and what commitment actually belong to which government and how we do it best with each other. I sent a letter to the Chamber on July 1st. It's called Recommendations and Improvements in Governance and Finance Co-Government. That note sets out solutions for better balance of resources and tasks. It addresses, for example, the issue of the scaling-up discount, youth care and the stability of the whole system. I should like to say that everyone who referred to this in the first term, including Mrs Van Dijk, Mr Eerdmans and Mrs Arib, is right. The financial position of the municipalities is under pressure. There is therefore a risk to the level of provision and there is a risk that necessary investments will be delayed or absent. The first step must be to establish the financial basis for municipalities and to find structural solutions to, for example, the issue of a better and sustainable system for youth care. Mrs. Bromet asked for that. We have, of course, already taken steps in this direction, but more needs to be done. Mrs Den Haan also specifically asked us how to solve this. That's what we're doing together. Here too, the Empire cannot do it alone. The VNG, the professionals working in youth care, the providers, the client organisations: all stakeholders have already started together. They have drawn up a Youth Reform Agenda, as they have called it. There, preparations are being made for a structurally better and also sustainable youth care system in the long term. And that is important again because, of course, a future cabinet will also have to decide on the structural resources needed for this. This also applies to the scaling-up discount. As you know, I am pleased that we have been able to freeze them at least for next year, but I also indicated earlier to the Chamber that it should no longer exist as far as I am concerned. Stability in the financial ratio is actually the third element in this. Well, I've made the necessary preparations for that, too. I've informed the Chamber about the building blocks that are there. We aim for a stable standard system, a re-evaluation of the Municipal Fund and Province Fund, and a modernisation of the tax area of municipalities and provinces. Once again, we are decommissioned and a new cabinet must decide on the final introduction of the new distribution of the Community fund. But a lot of questions have been asked about it and I would like to say a few words about it. The Chamber has, of course, seen that the ROB has advised on the new proposals for distribution. That advice was critical. I also understand very well that that leads to questions. That report came out last week. You have that at your disposal now. But this is a long and actually very careful journey that we go through with each other, because it is also very complex. I think it was Mrs Arib who said that very few people really understand it. And that's right. It's incredibly complex. But the division as it is is dated. It's just not sustainable anymore. So that forces us to take a close and careful look at each other. I am very much aware that there are municipalities that, according to the proposal as it is currently under way, are not as good as they are today. On the other hand, there are also many municipalities that are currently receiving less than what they need. The ROB rightly states that the new distribution is an improvement on the current distribution model, but that it cannot be the final station. The ROB also states that implementation can only be carried out under certain conditions, for example in the social domain. And I totally agree with the ROB. As far as these conditions are concerned, I am thinking of a step-by-step introduction. I think it's also important to maximize those redistributing effects. I think we should also keep our finger on the wrist very much. That's what we need to organize. We need to monitor closely. And we need to look carefully at where certain effects occur that we cannot properly understand. Then we'll have to do an in-depth investigation. The cabinet, or my ministry, is therefore in discussion with the VNG about this type of practice, about the distribution, about the effects of the distribution and about the cross-compliance. So it is really a careful process: step by step, with in-depth research, with the VNG who is also looking closely at it, with attention to possible distortions, with attention to effects on small municipalities, on medium-sized municipalities. And again, only after taking all these steps will a proposal be made for a better distribution. And that can only be done by another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u105	This sounds like some kind of point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u106	I thought I'd shut up for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u107	Are you at the end of the block on municipal finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u109	Okay, then we'll hear what Mr. Bishop has to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u110	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for joining in the tradition of every Minister for the Interior who stresses the need for further and better and other agreements on the establishment of the tax area. Every pastor of yours I've been through has embraced that. Only, the misery was: that usually happened at the end of the cabinet period. It was said that the next cabinet should take a good look at that. So at the beginning of the next cabinet period we said: the cabinet should look closely at that. And the new Home Secretary then nodded in agreement... but it never came of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u111	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u112	The first question, therefore, is: what is this minister going to do to get her successor, perhaps, to do so herself, to ensure that this subject is taken up in the first half of the new cabinet period and that it is discussed? That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u113	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u114	The second point I would like to raise concerns the opinion of the Public Administration Council. When I read that advice uninhibited, I get the impression that the Minister is playing it down a bit. In fact, the firm advice of the Public Administration Board is: stop this! The council says: here the system has been too decisive and there are a lot of factors that still have to be taken into account. I would like to give the Minister the assurance that this system will only be implemented if all the conditions mentioned by the Public Administration Council are really met. So not the salami tactics, but an integral approach, provided that the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u115	Very good points by Mr Bishop. On the first point: I have not checked whether it has always been the case, but in this case I have made sure that there is a report, a building block report with options. I hope, and I trust, that at the formation table that report has not gone unnoticed and that not only will that report be looked at and listened to, but that co-governments will also be asked how they look at it. On the second point: the ROB has produced a critical report, and that is, in fact, a good thing. This is, as I said, a tough and difficult path, which the UNG also says it must be done. But we have to do it carefully. With the advice of the ROB, we can now take advantage of it again, because in the next phase, that is the stage in which the VNG, in particular, is looking at it again. We can see if we are still able to make improvements on that point. Again, what is ahead is a fairer and better division at this time. What's lying here hasn't been re-evaluated in a very long time. Therefore, old assumptions are used, which is very much at the disadvantage of certain municipalities in the Netherlands. That's not fair to these municipalities either. At the same time, I am the first to admit that if there are municipalities that would suffer too much from a better, but ultimately financially worse system, we should also look very carefully at it. But that's driving. On the basis of the best possible research, facts and proposals, you end up cutting a knot in a way that can be explained to everyone. That's what we do in this trajectory. Nothing happens in a hurry. The ROB doesn't say stop. The ROB is critical of a number of parts, but precisely acknowledges that this exercise must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u116	Mr. Bishop, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u117	Indeed, but the ROB does impose conditions there that are sine qua non. Does the Minister agree with me? Is these conditions met before further steps are taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u118	The ROB outlines framework conditions and a phaser in them. I've informed the Chamber about that, and we'd like to take a good look at it with each other. Again, we must try to take advantage of the suggestions made by the ROB and see how they can relate to what really needs to be done, namely recalibrate the distribution model. Everyone agrees on that. We're gonna take that phaser and that framework with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u119	I'm mostly concerned about time. The debate is quite long and it is estimated that 700 million of the investments that municipalities will have to make sometime in the coming period have been pushed backwards. The longer it takes, the bigger the hump that's gonna happen. What is the ambition in time? I understand that it is difficult and complex, but we must dare to make a point and make a decision. Every year it takes longer, I worry a little more about the future of our local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u120	That is, of course, a very valid point. It is precisely because the distribution as it is now has major adverse effects for some municipalities, with the risks that Mrs Van Dijk presents, that it must be done. I'd like to put a line on that. But at the same time, because it's so complex and because you have to do it carefully when you do it, staged and dressed with the right conditions, I've noticed... There's been two and a half years of work on my side of the department, along with the VNG and the ROB. I do hope that this will enable the next cabinet to take the next step in that direction rather quickly. By the way, this is only about the resources as they are and a redistribution of them. Some of the things we are talking about, I have just spoken in detail about the youth care system, but there are also other things that may also require more resources, other resources. It is therefore partly about what is going on, and partly about the tasks and how they are balanced, but sometimes the additional tasks also require additional resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u121	I also asked for more quantitative indications. You state in your written answer: it is complicated and we are working on a number of routes to give more hands and feet to it. I would appreciate it if we could be briefed on this at some point. I understand that you do not have it yet if I would like to, but I would like to be informed about what is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u122	Let me take a look, because I have given an insight into this in the written set, as far as I can at the moment. But I would like to say to Mrs Van Dijk that, as far as possible, we will, of course, include the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u123	Please continue. You were ready, I believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u124	I was actually done, but I see that Mr Bosma is back in the Chamber. Mr Bosma always pays so much attention and time to me in his term, so I think I should do something in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u125	Yeah, he deserves it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u126	That's what I thought! I liked that yesterday in his term he quoted a famous quote from Gary Lineker. That quote was about the fact that football matches are all fun and nice, but that they are always won by the Germans. Mr Bosma and I are both from Amsterdam. As a football fan, I must remind him that the last few weeks have shown that German teams can also lose hope. I was there. It was a beautiful night. Mr Bosma also had another theory. He drew a little parallel with our democracy and our governance. He said there's a fun game going on in the Netherlands, but the elite always win. But that is what I really want to fight, because in our democracy the voters win. They're the people. And that is the winner of democracy. Winston Churchill once said the following. I like to quote this in this Chamber and do it in English, if that's okay: "This little room is what makes the difference between us and Germany." This was then about the Germany of the First World War, the German Empire, which quickly turned into a military dictatorship. He said that at the House of Commons. That's exactly how it is. It is so incredibly important that we always uphold democracy and that we play our part in it ourselves. That's all right with you. Mr Bosma knows that too, and he always likes to do so. But I'd be happy to say this back to him. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u127	Thank you very much. Then I will give the floor to... Oh, I can still see Mr Eerdmans rushing to the microphone. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u128	Now the Minister's gonna provoke me to ask a question. In a democracy, voters are always right, but you could say that some voters are completely out of play. That is because Mr Bosma's party is excluded from coalition talks by default. The same goes for Baudet's party. You can find all kinds of parties, but what do you think about the Minister, and yourself, excluding such a party with so many seats from a conversation in advance? There's not even a conversation going on. Whether you get out is always verse two. There may be reasons that make you say, "I'd rather not do business with that party." I sometimes see these reasons on other sides of the spectrum. But is it simply not undemocratic to use the blunt method by saying: we do not even open the door to a party with seventeen seats?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u129	It is a bit difficult to ask me this question as Minister of the Interior. I would like to have the debate with the whole Chamber. That is what I am doing with Mr Bosma's party and also with the Forum for Democracy. I'm not going to discuss it if parties are mutually exclusive because they disagree with positions. I think we live in a democracy in which people vote for whom they want to vote. In doing so, this Chamber reflects the will of the people. We are holding the debates in this Chamber. You'll vote again in your turn. That's why I said it's incredibly important to me what's going on in this Chamber. What is happening here can only be because we are a democracy, because we are holding elections and because people can pronounce and do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u130	But a democracy doesn't live on exclusion, does it? That's the opposite of what you'd like to aim for, isn't it? We are here with nineteen parties, with nineteen groups. I think they should work together. Whether you agree is still verse two. But I think my party was created, among other things, by the boycott that lies on a party like the PVV. It's very simple. Voters think: we vote for it, but we can't move forward. I think that's serious. And again, I don't care whether it's on the left or on the right. It's purely the phenomenon that your constituents leave in the cold. Then you can keep a whole story that every voter gets his share, but that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u131	Mr Eerdmans' comment is actually about coalition formation. I do not want to comment from here, from Box K, on how groups in the Chamber behave towards each other and who wants to or not with one or the other. That is up to groups themselves. That's really their trade-off. But the debate in this Chamber is held with 150 members, in which everyone can express their views, comment, criticise and vote for or against proposals from the cabinet. That is the democracy we must honour in this country as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u132	Thank you. Then I am going to give the floor to the Secretary of State, but not until after we have prepared the chair. "We" I mean transferable here; this is going to be one of our unsavory people. I'll just turn off the microphone; that'll help. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for their input into the first term of this debate. I imagine that on the basis of four blocks I will answer the question. It's pretty late, so I'm trying to do it a little bit succinctly. First of all, I would like to talk about digitalisation in the broad sense. I will answer Mr Dassen's questions, which are no longer allowed to interfere. He is served from the Ministry to get an answer to the question he had asked the Minister. I will also include Mr Van Baarle's question. Then there will be a comment on information and services for citizens. Thirdly, I go into the state real estate and fourthly to the state service. Mr. Chairman. The President of the European Commission, Von der Leyen, already appointed it in her State of the Union: climate and digitalisation are the spearheads for the future. With this digitization, it's going very fast. In the four years that I have been Secretary of State, there have been more photographs shot, I mean not only from me, but from everyone else than from all over history. I've been talking about digitalization for about 30 seconds now. In those 30 seconds, 500 million times worldwide is logged into Facebook, or Meta, as it's called nowadays. 22 million whatsapps have been sent. There were 2.5 million videos on YouTube. There are 20 million searches given to Google. 250,000 apps have been downloaded. 350,000 hours of Netflix have been watched. There's been 700,000 swipes on Tinder and 500,000 scrambled on Instagram. All that happened in 30 seconds. Suppose you multiply those numbers by 120 to see what happens in an hour and then again by 24 to see what happens every day. Those are huge numbers. The point I want to make here is that these developments are going so fast, also in time, that as a government we have a great challenge to keep up not only with ourselves, but also with the citizens we serve. When we talk about accessibility, the gap between the citizens and the government, or between the citizens and politics, then this is also what we are talking about. Who can join and who can't participate anymore? The impact of the Internet and its digitisation is enormous. Over the past two years, as a result of covid, we have noticed the importance of digitalisation. At a time when you had all kinds of limitations, you could continue with digital techniques. It offered opportunities for many groups in society. The question that always arises is: how can we keep doing it safely in this enormous dynamic of acceleration? And how do we protect ourselves from threats? It's not a static whole. It is a very rapidly developing world in which all kinds of actors are active with good but also with bad intentions. And the question is not insignificant: how do we take all citizens into account in these developments? How do we help people and how do we assist them? How do we ensure that people are not orphaned in this incredibly complex landscape? Mr. Chairman. Many in the Chamber have expressed their concerns about this. I'll talk about that in a moment. I would like to point out that I am very pleased that the Chamber has also regrouped itself, reorganized itself in its committee structure in order to raise this issue on the agenda. It is a subject that has been discussed in many committees, sometimes fragmented. It is good that this is now happening from an integrated perspective. That is not just a matter of reason, because the ambitions we have are also great. Technology and digitisation offer enormous opportunities. We can't afford to stand aside. So we're gonna have to go with you. We will have to improve services and their security at the same time. Many of you have asked me to mention Mr Bisschop and Mrs Den Haan, how we can ensure that everyone can continue to participate in this incredible race, including people who may have thought: that passes me by, I don't have to do anything with it anymore. How can we do that? If we realise that an estimated 2.5 million people in the Netherlands are struggling with language, with reading and writing, and therefore with digitisation, then there is a heavy task and responsibility for the government to do something with it. 2.5 million people, that's 50 times a full arena. That's been around lately. That's a lot of people. That group of 2.5 million people is very diverse. I have been allowed to speak to many of them in recent years. They're people you sometimes don't even expect. They don't always have a problem with it, but they see that you have to stick to it, because those developments continue. They are elderly people, people with language disadvantages, sometimes just people with disabilities in terms of language skills. They must also be able to count on the government. It was also discussed yesterday in the debate: the premium affair and what it did to people. So we have the task of helping people who cannot automatically come along. We have also taken initiatives to this end. Experience has shown that people want to talk to warm bodies, as I always call them. That was the same with the supplemental affair. I mean people of flesh and blood, who can be asked again in any question "what exactly do you mean?', so it doesn't lead to frustration. Mrs Rajkowski said it literally: you have to be able to look someone in the eye. Not everyone needs that, but some people do. It also works much better if you create a facility in which people can make use of that possibility. We have done this, among other things, by starting the Digital Government Information Point. These are very low-threshold information points in libraries. I am extremely proud that we have been opening 342 of these points for two and a half or three years now. The beauty is, if there is such a provision, that other parties want to join in. It really becomes a meeting place for people with all kinds of backgrounds to ask the same question every day and then not to be sent from the cabinet to the wall, but to be able to count on understanding every time. And there are even people who were helped there and then volunteering at those information points, and that's great. It is not just the government that is doing this; it is also a social issue. All parties have an interest in helping this citizen and not getting frustrated or, worse still, destroying him, as in the case of the premium affair. We're gonna keep doing that. We're also gonna see if we can do this on location or in district centers, so we can literally narrow that distance down. That means that personal contact, whether over the phone or at the counter, should always be possible. That's just a basic requirement. We have discussed this with the Chamber several times in the past. The duty of care that this requires will also be part of the Modernisation of Electronic Administrative Traffic Act, which may be discussed in the Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u134	Mrs. Leijten? I don't know if this block is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u135	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u136	Would you like to wait and see? You'll be right back. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u137	Mrs Den Haan asked for attention for people who have difficulty with further digitisation. She raised the question of whether I can see the impact of the action programmes that have been put in place in recent years. Yeah, I do. There are several programs. Sometimes you might ask why that should be so many programmes, but they are sometimes also aimed at certain target groups. What is extremely successful, which I will return to in a moment, is the Direct Clear Brigade. I mentioned the information points. There is also User Central, a platform in which governments are helped to focus on the citizen in their services. Mrs Den Haan also asked about the results of the Alliance Digital Society. For those who do not know, that is a partnership of more than thirty parties, banks, internet providers, libraries, hospitals and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These parties are working together on a shared ambition: a society where people can make skilled, safe and healthy use of digital services. It is not just about older people but also about other target groups. In recent years, despite the limitations of corona, we have been able to launch a lot of beautiful initiatives, also because of corona, to show that it is not just a personal responsibility of people or a matter of government, but that several parties have to do with the customer, or the citizen in the government. You have a common interest in this, even when it comes to people with disabilities, who still have a lot of trouble visiting, for example, government digital websites. One of the results of this alliance is, for example, the help line that we set up in 2020. People can go there with questions about a computer, smartphone or tablet. They also respond to current events, for example by asking questions about the CoronaCheck app. We have provided 15,000 people with tablets, especially people who, because of their income, are unable to provide for them themselves, to also provide them with access to that digital world. I've been to nursing homes myself a number of times, where you can see that people at the age of 80 or older first come into contact with these devices and then see what kind of world lies behind them. That has really prevented people from entering social isolation. They could just play another game with each other. Those things may not seem so important, but they were very important to those people. I am glad that, as a government, we have been able to work on this together with those social partners. It is important in this context that we should use clear language, that we should write letters to citizens or send mails that are understandable, that do not lead to frustration and impotence. Ms Van Dijk informed about this and asked about the Direct Clear Brigade, which was founded in 2018 and which started with the aim to improve initially a thousand letters from the government. As I mentioned earlier, these expectations have been well exceeded and over 20,000 letters and texts from the government have already improved over the past two years. The great thing about the initiative, which has come from the government, is that many parties and organisations want to join it because they see that it is working, that it is producing something, that the appreciation for the service is increasing, that the complaints are getting worse, that frustrations are getting worse and that a lot of officials, whether in the government or in the fellow governments, are working day in and day out of super-enthusiastic to carry this out. In total, 52 organisations have already signed the Direct Clear Deal, including the UWV and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. And mind you, at the UWV, 11 million letters are sent on countless subjects. They are all tested for clarity, starting with the top ten. That's the plan. In addition to the 52 organisations I just mentioned and which have signed the Direct Clear Deal, there are 23 organisations that are about to do so. In fact, today, as we speak, the municipalities of Katwijk and Apeldoorn have signed the deal. So we're good. We're not here yet, but we're gonna keep doing that. Mr. Chairman. The Direct Clear Brigade provided free language training to government organisations in 2021 and provides workshops almost weekly. And webinars are being organized all the time. Those webinars are well visited. This also leads to the fact that direct communication becomes the norm and that we are not going to use a difficult language. Mr. Ceder asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u138	One moment. I'm seeing some unrest. Apparently, there was another expectation about how long this block was going to last. I asked about it, Mrs. Arib. You weren't there at the time, but it doesn't matter. I can tell Mrs Leijten that she can't do her question anymore... she wants to ask him now. So let's do it. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u139	Clear language brigade, signing covenants: it's all as empty as it can be. 'Cause we're not moving forward, we're heating back. There are no motions in this Chamber because the world is so great when it comes to accessibility, because the government is so accessible. Let me give you three examples. The UWV still talks about customers, customer contacts, customer travel and that whole bullshit. The police are still not reachable via a free phone number. We all just accept that. There are so many municipalities and so many organisations where you have to go through a choice menu or with which you have to make an appointment digitally. Yeah, I'm sure they all signed the deal of the Direct Clear Brigade! Really, everybody! But it's a fair appearance. And then that "government close." Human contact is always necessary. There's always a call to be made. If you called the IRS phone as a duped, you'd get knocked off, then they'd just hang you. That was the policy. I have yet to see that that has been completely abolished. I doubt it. Then my question. About "the government close," the Secretary of State says in the answer: there are 342 information points; we do everything in libraries; everything is going great. Yesterday everyone here said: the government is withdrawing from society. There are fewer and fewer facilities in villages, in neighborhoods. There are fewer police stations, but certainly libraries are being closed down. Because of this disastrous community fund, the municipalities have to choose between the pool and the library. And maybe they don't have either of them anymore. So, yeah, people refer to that for the government nearby... it's going the other way. I ask the Secretary of State if he ever comes into society to see that. Or is it all delivered on paper and is it all seemingly clean, but is he perhaps going to believe that a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u140	Well, let me put it this way. The point made by Mrs Leijten about the inaccessibility of organisations, and perhaps still unattainable from some organisations, is a justified point. That is precisely why we have made a great effort in recent years to get back into that society. I come into that society every day, just like you. What I see, what I have heard recently and what I read in the reports that have been written, is that in recent years we, as a government, have paid too little attention to citizens, to access to facilities, to accessibility and to all these things. They've been described in all sorts of reports. This policy is exactly the answer to that. Is all that now, today, realized? No, but it's about an attitude. So I would really like to ask you to give this a chance. We've just set up the 342 points now. They weren't there three years ago. There was no such provision. I would also like to invite you to go there and see how it works there, because you can see that the people who have been there are very satisfied that they will eventually be helped. And, Mrs Leijten, I think it has suspended that in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u141	May I also ask you to speak through the chairman? Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u142	Yeah, that's what it's been up to, but that wasn't the SP, who's been calling attention to it over and over again. When the blue envelope would disappear, the SP, together with the rest of the Chamber, got ahead to keep it. By the way, it's not like people are happy with a blue envelope, but it is true that you always have to be able to get the mail if you want. That was a fight. The Digital Government Act was returned by the First Chamber because it felt that this Secretary of State was too miserable to handle it. In the legal process, the CDA and the SP had to file a motion to ensure that human contact is always maintained. That motion was carried out with all kinds of crap. Those support points are great, of course. People work there, too. I know. We have quite a resilient civil society. The SP also has emergency services that help people. But if from all these, also super-recent, reports comes that the government has turned its back on society, and the citizens, the inhabitants, have come to see them as opponents and approach them as fraudsters when they need help, then it's weird that the Secretary of State is standing here as if we're all cookies and not seeing it right? It just doesn't look so good. Why don't you consider that UWV, which people still call "customer." Why don't you go into those municipalities where you can't just walk in, but get a hundred thousand choice menus? Just get into that! That's the order of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u143	You can see that in recent years this has not gone well on a number of issues, that organisations have not been sufficiently aware of the problems faced by citizens, and that terrible things have happened because people have been destroyed. This policy is precisely aimed at... I would not like Mrs Leijten to see us as an opponent in that area, including the blue envelope, because all these years I have argued that this should continue to be possible. I am glad that the Chamber was also very vocal in that, but I never said that we would not. In fact, I have always said, from the beginning, that that personal contact is also essential on the basis of the work visits I have made myself. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is nog niet in alle organisaties van de rijksoverheid, wat er heel veel zijn, op het niveau dat we willen.]] That's a process of training people and raising people's awareness. What has happened over the past few years has made a great deal of impression on everyone. This has also impressed officials who are doing their job well and who have seen what has gone wrong with other services. So I don't think anyone underestimates the impact of that, but you can't deny that over the last few years, we've been going back to those information points... I just said we're going into the neighbourhood centers; we're going forward with that. We're gonna put that back on. That has, of course, disappeared in part over the past few decades. It's gone. We're gonna put that back on now. Those are not empty words or policy letters, Mrs Leijten. Those are intentions that we have also implemented in recent times. I'm not someone who gets happy with notes. I'm someone who just wants to see results. That's what we just did. That's demonstrable. Is that all at the level where we want the government? No, I don't, but I can't do that from today to tomorrow either. The UWV is an organization that has now joined. It is going to get the experiences that other organisations have already had. This will also improve his service, so that is precisely the result of the reports that this Chamber has also produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u144	We have a health minister who says every six months in an interview that market forces must be abolished in care, but does not put a finger on it. And here we have a secretary of state who talks about "the government nearby," but doesn't see that there's not even a beginning of an answer in that government. We are dealing with a Prime Minister who has "radical ideas" for a new administrative culture and proposes the creation of a new Ombudsman. We have an Ombudsman who gets angrier and angry about how public services deal with citizens, whether it's the IND, the UWV, the Tax Office or the municipalities. Every report gets more alarming. And then the Secretary of State says here: I hope Mrs Leijten does not see us as an opponent. At least I don't see enough movement. In the debate on the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee together with the Christian Union, I had to table a motion to implement the earlier motion of the CDA and the SP on "always personal contact." That was almost two years later! Yes, I'm sorry, I don't see any speed in that, and I'd like to see it so much; I'd love to see it so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u145	I really think Mrs Leijten... I'm not gonna contradict what went wrong. I'm not gonna do that, because a lot of things have gone wrong, with big consequences. But we also have to face up to what happened after that. Let's learn from that to do better. We should not be cynical about that; we should give it a chance. When I see how enthusiastic it is, including in implementation organisations, to participate in the information points we have set up, I think: that is the result of the fact that everyone sees that it could not go on as it went on. That's something we, as a government, have to do every day. For inclusiveness, we have taken many initiatives in the last four BZK budgets, with the support of the Chamber, also in the context of the innovation budgets. The story of the accessibility, of the personal contact, the blue envelope that no one wants to receive, but which we continue to deliver on paper: these are examples of the fact that we do not see the citizen as a kind of customer that we can miss. No, every citizen matters. And if anyone wants a paper blue envelope, they get it. There can be no misunderstanding about that. I'm not standing here thinking it's not gonna work out either, because I see the progress. I see the progress. I see things are getting better. I also see the enthusiasm of officials who say: yes, of course we are there for that citizen. I am not going to trivialize the fact that that has gone horribly wrong. Let's get that straight. However, I am not going to fall into cynicism and say that it will never work again. That is precisely the task that we all have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u146	I notice that the Secretary of State speaks in the past tense, as if it were something that was bad and is now much better. I was just thinking back to when I myself as a citizen was having trouble reaching the government. I really didn't get out of two cases, and I'm a highly educated, smart-ass woman. I just lost my way. Never mind how it goes with people who haven't finished high school. I got lost on two things. The first time was when applying for an environmental permit. First of all, I couldn't figure out whether to ask him or not, because there were sometimes and sometimes not permit-free rules. No one could give me information. I finally tried to apply for the license, and that was incredibly complicated. The second example is that I wanted to apply for a subsidy for a heat pump. Nor can we do that for people who have not followed the study heat pumps. This can't be! That's more than opening a window or personal contact with people, but that's about how you make regulations. That's a lot deeper. That's at the beginning: if you want to help people, you shouldn't pay out the care allowance on the 15th and let people pay their insurance on the 18th. There's three days in between. If you have little money, that money burns in your pockets. So I would really like to hear more about that. They all seem a little Band-Aid instead of being about the cause of all of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u147	I give the floor to the Secretary of State. I understand that this is difficult, but I would ask you to keep it as concise as possible. I know your reputation in that respect, and it's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u148	Sure, but I don't want to fail the Chamber either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u149	No, that's a dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u150	I have those experiences myself, I say. I don't want to turn my heart into a murder pit. It's still happening. I also don't deny that you sometimes end up somewhere and think, "How can they write this down like that?" I'm working every day to improve this, and so are others. So it's mostly about attitude. This Direct Clear Brigade is not only concerned with letters, but also with how you sometimes translate complex things into a customer-friendly, citizen-friendly approach, for example if someone wants to apply for a heat pump grant. That is why we have this cooperation with companies, because they have the same problem. The fact that you have a problem with this, and that I may sometimes have difficulty with it, will certainly lead to many more people having experience. That's always gonna happen. However, you must ensure that these kinds of problems are brought before you, that someone who comes up against them can report them and that they are properly considered. You also have to make sure that those officials, that execution organisation, try to move much more than before into the one on the other side, the one who calls or does something on a screen. I can really see that tilting now. This also has to do with the design of websites and that sort of thing. It's not like it's all solved. I'm not gonna say that here either. I'm just saying that in these incredible, fast developments in the digital field, where citizens always expect that they can be helped digitally quickly and easily, there is the risk of creating some sort of gap. On the one hand, you want to serve a group that finds it all very useful. And on the other hand, people run into it because it is not clear to them. That, I believe, is the task we all have. So this is about attitude, it is about repetition and it is about training officials in it. Fortunately, however, it is not always the case that civil servants do this knowingly and knowingly. So is my experience. No, they may not sometimes have the idea of how that is experienced on the other hand. We are all in a certain position here and at the same time we are all citizens and take services and products from the government. This service must be provided every day. We are. That's what I just said. And that includes that when people get stuck, for example in the case you just mentioned, they can always pick up the phone and say that they don't get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u151	I think it needs to be dealt with much sooner. So not if an arrangement is already very complicated to make sure that there is someone who can explain it or who is very friendly. That arrangement shouldn't be complicated. Things have to be simple so everyone can understand. And that's just starting with policy making. The policy is too complicated. And if the policy is very complicated, then you also have to make very complicated routes through websites and hotlines and I don't know what to think of. I would very much like to work with all of us here to make things simpler rather than more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u152	That's a cry of hearts I can understand. But we all know how laws and regulations come about. It is also often the compromise of different interests that is taken into account. So it often becomes complex. And that's the big challenge. I'm looking at what we all have in legislation, for example the Digital Government Act. These laws are made here and they must be translated in such a way that any citizen can make use of them or apply them. That's the complicated part. That's really different than 20, 30 years ago. I think of that as a cry of hearts. Of course, we also carry out implementation tests on legislation at the Ministry of the Interior. So this is partly looked at, but you can never completely prevent a law from being well-intentioned, by way of amendment, for example, or by means of certain restrictions that exist, from having all kinds of exceptions which make it not so easy at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u154	The Secretary of State said it's about attitude. I couldn't agree more. If you want to make something simple and customer-friendly, it starts with attitude. You also mention the Direct Clear Brigade: I am very pleased that one ministry has signed up for it. So I guess the courage will fall on me, because then I think: if we have something like this and if we really want to change it, will every ministry be the first to sign up to do this for us citizens? So I'm just worried about a message like that, instead of thinking, "Now it's going the right way."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u155	I'm not so worried about that. What you see at the Direct Clear Brigade is that that snowball is getting bigger very quickly and that a lot of organizations sign up. I am truly convinced that it will be the new standard and that organisations that do not comply with it, so those unclear texts continue to write or bury citizens under unreadable documents, will eventually get a lot of complaints and that ultimately there will also have to be corrected. My role, including within the Cabinet, is to stimulate this. I see that more and more organisations are applying. I believe in that much more than in all kinds of obligations. This, too, leads to legislation, and that does not, in general, speed up it. There was just reference to the Digital Government Act. Well, it's been on the road for four years, just to give you an example of how long it'll take. So I believe much more in enthusiasm and motivation. So I also see over the past two years, since that Direct Clear Brigade was founded, that this has become extremely larger and more extensive. I'm not so afraid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u156	I hope that the non-fear is well founded by the Secretary of State, but when I hear that it is not self-evident and that ministries do not automatically think 'we must want to', then I really do have great concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u157	It is a task for me, but also for the Chamber, to appeal to the ministries that would remain behind. I do that, too, because I really think it's a responsibility. We serve the people, so we have a responsibility to do it properly. That's different from the fact that you got it all sorted out tomorrow, but the attitude has to be: I want to do this better, I want to improve this and I'm going to join in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u158	I'm trying to actually imagine what that's gonna look like. For a few minutes now, I've been hearing the Secretary of State tell me that it's about the government getting close to the citizen, that people can call and that they have direct contact. In my first contribution, I mentioned an article from the Groene Amsterdammer about villages where all the facilities were gone, by austerity or supposedly from the point of view of efficiency. There are no such facilities. In a village like this, they don't sit around waiting for "calling" at all, I think. They just want there to be a facility in their village where they can go. Does the Secretary of State have any ideas as to how that could be achieved, rather than "call"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u159	Well, about that "calling" thing: I just indicated that there are different ways to do this. The initiatives we are now taking with the Digital Government information points at the libraries are from the Empire. I also said just now that we are in the process of extending it to neighbourhood centres. Mobile facilities could even be available in certain areas. There is also a responsibility for the local authorities to create their own facilities where local matters are concerned. So it is an issue that leads to responsibilities, both in the Empire and in the municipalities. The choices that are made, for example at municipal level, to close or not to close certain facilities, are really the choices of the local authorities. What we are doing now is the libraries that are there. Let us be honest: these facilities are under pressure. Some of you mentioned that. We are giving a new role, and the libraries are very happy to be able to fulfil this role of meeting centre and task force for everything. This concerns not only public services, but also private services. That's another way of organizing. You used to go to the library to borrow books. Now you see a lot more other services there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u160	There are still people who like to go to the library.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u161	These libraries are there, but it is a question of giving them more tasks, providing more services and making them more attractive for people to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u162	I am incredibly curious whether there is a plan for it, so that we can see which regions they are, which villages they are, what facilities they come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u163	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u164	Then I'd like to have it sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u165	I think the Chamber already has it, but I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u166	Shall we let one person speak at a time? The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u167	I'm sure I'm willing to send you that overview. Then I can also show what has been achieved in concrete terms over the last two years, not just in policy papers. I've visited some of those libraries. Without exception, they are extremely enthusiastic and they also see that the low-threshold of a library that can also be a district center contributes that people with questions can go there. It's not the only solution, but it contributes to it. I just mentioned the example of people who come up with the same question every day. Some people asked a question yesterday, got an explanation and said that if they come with the same question tomorrow, they will be helped again. That's the spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u168	I have a question about digitalization. Mr Bromet has just mentioned that, even if you are highly educated, it is still complicated to get information. We also have 2.5 million people in the Netherlands aged 16 and over who have difficulty reading and writing. How are you going to reach that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u169	That 2.5 million group I just mentioned is a very diverse group. These are young and old people, people who are low-literate, people who are highly educated and people who have sometimes just never worked with digital facilities. Some people have thought that they would no longer have to use it and now find out that it might be useful. What do we do about it? We do things on a very broad spectrum. We have funded elderly organisations that give courses to older people, for example in libraries. The Digital Government Information Points also offer courses. It's often volunteers who teach these courses. That's very nice. Often it is also people who had an experience themselves that they did not know how it worked and are now willing to hand it over to others. In view of the question, I think it is right that in the letter I am going to send to the Chamber I should give a full overview of what we are all doing on this point. I just said that it may seem like we are doing a lot of projects, but that also has to do with the fact that the target group is very diverse. By the way, we do this together with the ministry of OCW. Low literacy is the responsibility of that ministry. We work very well together there. A number of projects we actually do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u170	Can you tell me when that letter is to be expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u171	He should be able to go to the Chamber in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u172	Thank you. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u173	I have another request number for that letter. If it says in which villages libraries have been added, I would very much like to mention in the letter how many libraries have left where.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u174	I did not promise to send the number of libraries and their locations. I indicated that I would mention in the letter where the Digital Government Information Points are located. They're based in libraries. That's 342 now. That was two and a half years ago zero. I can send it to you. Libraries are the responsibility of the Minister of OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u175	A suggestion was raised. It began with a question from Mrs Arib's Chamber. She said a lot of facilities went missing. The countryside is empty. The government's gone. Then comes the example of the libraries and those points that have come back. Then I ask how many libraries have disappeared and then it is suddenly irrelevant. I understand that these points are often in a library, but it's not about those points. It's about the amenities and a library is a facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u176	That last one's right. I am responsible for improving public services. To this end, we have taken the initiative to set up the Digital Government Information Points. We have done so in good consultation with libraries. I can inform you about that. I do not have an overview of all the facilities throughout the Netherlands that have disappeared in recent years. I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u177	I get the impression that the Chamber also needs the state of play with regard to libraries. Perhaps it is possible to give it from the cabinet. You don't have to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u178	I'm gonna have to redirect that to the Ministry of OCW. That's responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u179	If that plan comes to us, I would have liked to have included why it was not simply sent to us when the motions were being drafted. Those motions were tabled and adopted. I would also like to see what the growth ambition is. The Secretary of State himself says: we do that in libraries. We know the libraries are falling over. This has been the focus of attention for years. This Secretary of State must have achieved that. He says: we may also make mobile points. Possibly? Is that what we're gonna do? Is it the ambition? How much money is reserved for that? I'd like to get that all straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u180	This point has already been mentioned in the written reply to the questions. As far as libraries are concerned, for the sake of clarity, I have not had a discussion about libraries and facilities. I have indicated that we have agreed with these libraries in the meantime to set up an information point and to finance it, and thus to provide public services with access to these points. So that's where people actually sit who can help people who get there. I'll inform the Chamber about that, and also about the plans we have. I have just indicated to you that at this moment we are going to think tomorrow as we are going to think today whether we can extend these provisions. So we're talking to these libraries. We've gone from 0 to 342 in two years. These are all individual libraries with which we make agreements. We will continue to do so, because this service is appreciated in the direction of the citizen. That's very concrete. People can go there and ask for help. Libraries are therefore also a very good tool to use in this way. The libraries therefore also experience that they are getting more up and running.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u181	Thank you. It feels like you've come halfway to point two, about service and so on. But maybe I'm wrong about that. Are you at least at the end of block one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u182	I'm still working on the first block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u183	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u184	I was actually trying to say to Mr Ceder the following. Following on from what Mrs Van Dijk said, he asked whether we should be more compelling. I do not see any reason for this at the moment. I am particularly enthusiastic about the number of organisations involved since its creation. I just mentioned those numbers. We give a lot of publicity to that, too. We reward good initiatives. So I see it's happening in a very good way. If, for example, certain ministries say they're not going to do that, which I can't imagine, then of course we'll start the conversation. That'll be obvious. I think this should simply be the norm. It can't be an end to complicated communication and you need to open up to improvement. Then there's information security. Mrs Rajkowski asked questions about this. That is right, because information security is a matter of continuous attention. It's technical, it's complex and it's not static, like I just said. As a government, both as a government and as a local government, we have been well awakened a few times, for example by the ransomware attacks on the NWO and at Court of Twente. But that was also done by the reports about the threat to state actors. There is a growing awareness that as a government we are very vulnerable to these attacks. Continuity of services, maintenance of systems and data protection are of course top priorities. In fact, Mrs Rajkowski asked: should we not move further in terms of the coordinating role of the Interior and should you not operate a little more firmly on that point? We have really taken a number of steps over the last four years. There are now all kinds of things that were not there four years ago, which I am glad we have them, assuming and against the background that each department is, of course, primarily responsible for information management. This is also apparent from the Court of Auditors' report, which you mentioned, and each department is also placed on that section along the measurement bar of the General Court. But here's what I'm gonna say. We have taken the decision on coordination which regulates who is responsible for what. We've appointed the CIO Empire, the Chief Information Officer. We've made a decision on the CIO system. This also concerns the relationship between the CIO Empire and the departmental CIOs. Also, since 2019, in addition to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Interior, in this case I was responsible for the I function, the information function. I therefore recognise that this dossier, this subject, is of great importance. It's always a work in progress, because it's never finished. There's never time to sit back, because those threat levels are increasing. This also means that, on the basis of the Court's report, departments are encouraged to take continuous steps to eliminate any weaknesses. It is my role to see to it with the CIO Empire, to see where it goes and where it needs to be better, and to encourage where it is necessary. Mr. Chairman. This technology offers us a great deal of opportunities to do things, even when it comes to services. I told you, we can't stay behind. Citizens also expect us to provide modern services. But we do face additional challenges in protecting privacy and personal data. This is, of course, monitored from all sides, and if a problem arises, it will be examined and investigated immediately. We learn from that, too. I note, for example, in cooperation with the VNG and the local authorities, that there is a great deal of eagerness, also through recent experience, to work on this. I also see that the naivety, which may have been there once, is really gone after the recent examples. Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to answer Mr Dassen's and Mr Van Baarle's questions in this small block. Mr Dassen asked questions about this algorithm register and in particular whether it would become mandatory. I indicated in the written reply that I will come with a letter in January next year in which the Chamber will be further informed. At the moment, we are going to work together with the fellow governments, including the municipalities, to see to what extent this obligation is desirable and necessary. In addition, negotiations are currently under way with the European Commission on an AI regulation, an artificial intelligence regulation. This regulation may include an algorithm register as an obligation due to transparency requirements, but that is not yet entirely certain. The position of the Dutch cabinet on this proposal is in itself positive, because we could imagine that this register would become compulsory. This is also stated in the BNC sheet sent to the Chamber on 1 October. Negotiations with the various Member States are still ongoing. We also see that there is support for this approach in several Member States. However, as promised, I propose that I inform the Chamber more about this in January 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u185	Mr Dassen has an interruption for you, and that is his last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is indeed about a possible obligation for an algorithm registry. That is important, because if not all algorithms are included, people cannot control themselves whether they are indeed subject to algorithmic decision-making. Then it is not by controlling people here in the Chamber, journalists or others how the government makes that decision. Of course, we have seen a lot of that now. But in addition, it also forces the government to really think about whether she can explain why she would like to use these algorithms. When it doesn't become mandatory, such a transparency register doesn't make much sense, of course, because we don't know if all the algorithms are in it. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State whether he can make a commitment to make this register compulsory. He has already indicated that he is in favour of the EU's obligation. If not, I'll come forward with a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u187	The Secretary of State. That can be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u188	I can't promise that right now. I've put my feelings and the feelings of the Cabinet on that with you. I certainly see that as an option. We are still discussing this in consultation with the co-governments, and that is why I cannot undertake it now. I have just given a number of arguments which could well lead to what you are asking for. I'm facing that motion, but I can't promise it right now. In January, I will return to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u189	Still, there's a question about that algorithm registry. I now hear about different types of registers and different types of algorithms. Decision-making algorithms are used, but also learning algorithms and ordinary flat, dumber algorithms. You have all kinds of shapes. What I would actually find interesting, especially when we look at the future and at transparency, is whether we are going to use such an algorithm register more widely in the Netherlands, also for the government, in that register you can also see whether the algorithm used is indeed simple and stupid, or whether it is a self-learning algorithm that is also decision-making. I think you can use that to introduce some sort of layering. Then we as a Chamber can also control those smart, self-learning algorithms much better and come somewhere in the process a possibility to say: now the self-learning algorithm goes in the wrong direction and comes out discriminatory values, now we stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u190	That's an interesting suggestion, but it's actually already about how. What exactly is that register gonna look like? We are not there yet, but I can imagine that you can indeed, just if you want to make a register transparent, also show what kind of algorithm it is. This will be the subject of further discussions. This also has to do with the regulation that is now in the process of being adopted. As I have just said to Mr Dassen, there can be no doubt that we, as the Dutch Government, are very much in favour of this transparency as far as the obligation and transparency are concerned. We therefore support this proposal, and it may well be that it will eventually become mandatory and that it will distinguish between different types of algorithms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u191	I am very pleased to hear that the cabinet also says that transparency is very important, but I would like to make it a little more specific. Can the Secretary of State undertake that in the letter that comes in February about the algorithm register there is also a response to the question about the different types of algorithms? This can be done at abstraction level, but in such a way that we as the House of Representatives can make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u192	I was afraid for a moment that you would ask me if I could now undertake to do so, but I can assure you that I will respond in that letter. Then Mr Van Baarle had a question about the self-learning algorithms. Are I prepared to see whether this hand-out is clear on that point and whether it is going to go along with that? The answer is very brief: yes, a bit along the lines of Mrs Rajkowski. At the moment, this hand-out has already been developed by the Ministry of the Interior, with scientists from Tilburg University, Eindhoven University, the Vrije Universiteit van Brussel and a specialist from the College of Human Rights. This hand-out explains step by step how organisations that want to deploy artificial intelligence can prevent their algorithms from being discriminated against. This manual was developed precisely for the purpose of algorithms using machine learning and other self-learning techniques. So the answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u193	Mr. Van Baarle, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u194	Two points. Should I interpret that reply as a commitment to consider whether this hand-out could be tightened on that point? I see the Secretary of State nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u195	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u196	Thank you for that. I'm very happy about that. Then there is another point in substance. What I'm looking for... I really appreciate what the government is doing at this point, don't get me wrong. I think it's a good thing those hand-pickings are in place. However, we are faced with a rather serious fact, namely that the government may use techniques that have a discriminatory outcome. We have seen the most terrible example of this. Although I am always very charmed by hand-outs, I wonder whether it serves the urgency on this point. After all, we may have monsters in the government that are kicking people's ass. Shouldn't that be more urgent than just a hand-out, giving people good information on how to prevent it? Shouldn't we impose that, for example, before such an algorithm is used, test phases are already going through to rule out this kind of thing, that is actually being pulled through and that all these algorithms are being tested on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u197	The aim of the hand-out is precisely to exclude the questions you are asking, in order to avoid discrimination, from the front. By applying that hand-out, assuming that no government organization would purposely aim to..., you make sure that in combination with that transparency is always followable how the algorithms work and whether there is a discriminatory element in it. If so, and the Minister has just said so, the answer to that is very clear: that is not possible. So the moment you notice that, such an algorithm is not appropriate. So you have to see this hand-out in such a way that organisations that want to make certain issues easier or more efficient... that is, of course, the other side of the service provided by the government. We don't want to be unnecessarily busy figuring things out. We also want to use new techniques, but in such a way that they do not lead to 'unintended', I say 'unintended', because I think that it is mostly 'discriminatory'. With this hand-out and transparency, which, of course, includes organisations that are perhaps a little more critical about matters, you can have the debate on this. I think that is one of the important things that the Ministry of the Interior, and also the Chamber and the new committee, should do: to assess in particular the normative side of what is technically possible. 'Cause technically, there's a lot of them. We know that. We also know that today there are all kinds of providers and platforms that we are all used to, which interpret the standards in a different way than we do in the government. But when we have a debate in this Chamber on the application of techniques that lead to better service, we must always ask ourselves whether this leads to discrimination. If the answer is yes, then that technique is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u198	Finally, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u199	What I'm looking for: although these hand-outs are a good instrument, they naturally assume a piece of non-bindingness. It is only a question of whether these hand-outs actually lead to them being implemented. We don't know. I have previously had a debate with Minister Ollongren on the question of whether municipalities do apply a hand-out to the GDPR. This turned out to be extremely disappointing a few years after that hand-out was introduced. I'm so worried that's happening here, too. How are we gonna prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u200	I understand your question very well. I also feel a little bit that you, just like Mr Ceder, are asking if there should be more compulsion on it. I think, on the contrary, that it is self-accounting for what you are doing, because, on the basis of that transparency, it can also be done, and the hand-out that is intended for those who develop this kind of thing, to see if they meet the standards that we have agreed with each other, is a very good combination. So you assume the responsibilities that belong to the different organisations, but those organisations are also responsible for accountability and they are accountable if things don't go well. Is it said that there will be no algorithms that discriminate? No, they might well come, but you can see that on the basis of that hand-off you shouldn't be able to do that, if you do that right, and if it does happen and it is reported, then you can act on it. That's why transparency is so important: you explain how these algorithms are put together. That is also the only way to assess for everyone here whether or not this leads to discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u201	Building on the answer that the Secretary of State has just given: wonderful, if you rely on trust and the idea that public authorities certainly do not want to discriminate consciously, and then you go at some point to see if the tools that have been used, such as algorithms, are working. By the time you find out that such an algorithm, perhaps unintentionally, has discriminatory elements in it, people are already affected. People have already been discriminated against. On the basis of these algorithms, they are already faced with all the consequences. My question is, therefore, in fact a follow-up to Mr Van Baarle's question as to why you would not choose to make sure that this does not happen on the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u202	You can never rule out, as I have just said, that algorithms are being designed, because every day new policy questions come and new implementation issues have to be solved, which somehow, and I do assume that it is unintentional, lead to discriminatory elements or considerations. You can never completely prevent that. The question is, how do you deal with it? I think that transparency and the ability to watch how those algorithms work is the best guarantee that any errors that can always be avoided will be corrected. For if those mistakes are detected, say that citizens, for example, complain and say: I think I am disadvantaged here. Then you also need to be able to prove whether or not that is the case on the basis of the algorithms. And if that's the case, the algorithms need to be modified. So that works. And I understand that you're asking the question in view of the supplemental affair. Things have happened there for years that have led to terrible situations. But that transparency in algorithms is therefore so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u203	We agree that transparency in algorithms is important. However, I note that the Secretary of State ignores the fact that if you start checking at any point in the process, there have already been casualties. And with the same ease you can avoid such things at the front, perhaps not 100%, but certainly 90%. You can avoid that if you don't let it depend on no strings attached. Let me ask the following specific question. At some point, people contract with people who design these algorithms. What time in that process, according to the Secretary of State, is a good time to check that things are going as they should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u204	This, of course, also has to do with the regulation which has yet to come into force and how it is all worked out. With that hand-me-down, we're trying to keep it from happening. With this we try to help organizations that are designing algorithms by pre-keying to do the good things. I told you, you can't completely stop it from happening. These algorithms are then published and made transparent. Anyone can watch. Depending on how this regulation will lead to implementation, these issues will also be addressed. Mrs Simons now asks: how exactly are you going to do that? That's part of the process we're going through right now, where you want to do as much on the front as possible. But I also feel like a mechanism in which you could actually say: wait a minute, here's something that is not admissible. And do you have the resources and powers to intervene? So that is also part of the process we are now in, including with the European Commission, with that regulation on artificial intelligence and algorithms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u205	I'd like to hear three reasons why you don't eliminate that non-committality at the front. Why don't you just say: we're going to do everything the Secretary of State proposes here, but we're going to do it in such a way that it doesn't depend on the implementing authority or any company? It should not depend on whether such an organization is willing to cooperate in this. Because until now, I'm only hearing the argument that it's so nice that you can intervene at some point. In that case, however, the victims have already fallen. It was you who shared the numbers with us here about how fast it is in that digital world and how fast an algorithm works. A discriminatory algorithm can, according to your own example and calculation in a week, make a huge number of victims. So I'm very curious if you can give reasons why you wouldn't want to protect the safety at the front as much as possible. Why wouldn't you want to protect the safety of the people who need to use it at the front, often unconsciously? Three seems like a good number, but it can also be ten reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u206	I very much agree with that. That's exactly why we developed that hand-off. With that hand-handling you force organizations to develop algorithms at the front of that hand-handling. So that's not non-binding. That's not without obligation at all. By forcing transparency, you take care of a process of accountability with every organisation that makes use of it. I believe that this also helps to prevent algorithms being created that lead to discrimination. That was not the case in the past. So it's not at all noncommittal at all. The main purpose of this hand-out is therefore to point out to organisations at the front the pitfalls that exist. You can never rule out 100% that things go wrong, because it is indeed complicated matter and it is about the tension between a good service on the one hand and making it transparent and explainable why you do things on the other. But I think that's the path we need to go. That is based on trust, but certainly not on non-committality. It's not like "do anything" or "it doesn't matter." No, you can use the manual to create the algorithms and you can then also be tested by everyone because of that transparency about the algorithms. Anyone can do that: organisations specialising in them, human rights organisations. They can say "that's not right" and then you get a debate. I am afraid that I cannot entirely satisfy Mrs Simons at the moment with this answer, but in the process that we are now going to develop, we are going to see what else you might be able to do. I'm not ruling that out. I'm not gonna think of three reasons why you shouldn't. I am not saying that her story is wrong either, but I think that this is the logical first step and that this will lead to an incredible improvement in those algorithms and reduce the risk of discriminatory effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u207	I'm confused for a second. I can't tell from this answer... There's no strings attached. It's voluntary. Is it mandatory to subject yourself to such a hand-out as an organisation or organisation? implementation organisation or organisation Government organization? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u208	The point is clear, I think. The Secretary of State. It can be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u209	I think you might have something to explain if you don't use that hand-me-down. It has been developed with a number of organizations for a reason. Is it perfect? Does it prevent mistakes? I wouldn't say that, but it's a lot more than we had. Remember that in recent years we have often worked with algorithms that were put together by technicians and no one knew how they worked, with sometimes catastrophic consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u210	Yeah, that's obvious, too. We're not gonna repeat ourselves now. Mrs. Simons. I don't know if you're gonna agree. Otherwise, of course, you have other tools to make your point. I'll let you try again. Go ahead, if you want. No? Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Rajkowski still?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u211	Then I'm gonna try again. I would like to include Mrs Simons in this. As for algorithm use, artificial intelligence: that's a technique that's going to stay, that's going to grow out and that we're going to use even more, in all facets of our daily lives. Then it is very good that we are transparent about that and that eventually a kind of human stop button can be pressed, so from "ho, this goes too far." But it would be so beautiful, even for the support for this kind of technique, if, at the front of the design of an algorithm, a certain degree of the use of diversity is secured in the process and that human rights and anti-discrimination are all things that we can guarantee in advance as much as possible. I was in the answer by the Secretary of State a bit looking for more clarity on this. I cannot imagine that this is not a requirement that we can make to our municipalities, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u212	That could certainly be in the process that is going to follow. I didn't rule it out either. I told him we'd start with the hand-picking. Of course, we didn't have anything and we're developing it now. There may well be even better versions of that hand-out coming soon, working away. In that sense, it is also a learning process. Let me give you the example of the accessibility of government websites. That is another thing: it is all regulated by law and yet there are still a number of authorities that do not meet the requirements. I have put some pressure on you and said: we are all government and the citizen can expect any municipality to meet the requirements. Well, then you can see that that doesn't have to be a priority everywhere. It is precisely the debate in the Lower House and in the Municipal Councils that makes organisations, whether municipalities or executive organisations, responsible for this. I do not rule out the possibility that it should ultimately lead to something of an obligation. Only, I don't see that right now. We will have to look at that in the follow-up process. If there is insufficient compliance, if one fails to use this hand-out and that leads to accidents, as Mrs Simons said, then that could be a reason. I am naturally a bit reluctant, and at the VVD as a whole, with the obligation of all kinds of things and then thinking that it will be okay. I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u213	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik zou ...]] Sorry, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u214	You have a different view, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u215	Well, no, I'd like to press the stop button of block one. Not halfway through a sentence of yours, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u216	Okay. I will continue, Mr President, with information and services for citizens and businesses. Minister Ollongren just named it in her contribution: the government is a serving body entrusted with a great deal of power. Trust means it comes on foot and goes on horseback. All of us as drivers can be expected to reflect critically each time on whether we are doing well at this point. This applies not only to the movement between the Chamber and the Cabinet, but also to implementation organisations. In response to the report Unknown injustice, the cabinet announced that it would speed up the improvement of information and information management. Mrs Rajkowski asked if we are working on the information management action plan. I can assure you that all the government ministries and implementing organisations are working on this plan of action. They've all put in plans for that on their organization. There are many, hundreds of them, but this is also due to the complexity of the various departments and implementing organisations. In my letter of 21 September on the progress of the action plan, I highlighted a number of measures taken this year. A central facility for archiving government websites has been set up. In July there was also a publication of decision notes on Chambers, to which the Minister also referred, and the publication of the agenda and decision list of the Council of Ministers. A central training programme for information professionals has also been launched. In addition, the government commissioner to be appointed has direct access to the cabinet, first and foremost in the person of myself. He can also appeal to colleagues in the cabinet about progress, or lack thereof, and bottlenecks. If progress is lagging behind in a department, the Government Commissioner can advise that I use my coordinating powers or that I adjust to the distribution of budgets. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Dijk asked questions about the point of contact in which citizens who cannot manage to communicate with public authorities and implementation organisations should be able to report. She asked about the state of play. The Secretary of State for Finance sent a letter to the Chamber on 29 June. That letter contains an update on the measures taken following the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance. It describes this one-stop-shop function: the principle of no wrong door. A number of steps have been taken to achieve this one-stop-shop function. First, in cooperation with the VNG, the needs of citizens are identified in their contacts with the government. They used interviews, focus groups and sessions with citizens. It looked at the route citizens travel within the government and the channels they normally use. A number of results have been obtained. The VNG then took stock of the current service structure in government organisations. That inventory was completed this summer. For the follow-up phase, a project team has been set up consisting of representatives of the Empire, the VNG, several municipalities and a broad representation of all major implementation organisations. This autumn, the project team will launch experiments with different forms of a one-stop shop, to help citizens who often have a stack of different problems and not, as usual, to send them from the cabinet to the wall. The results of all these experiments and what we are doing now in response to that report are used to look together with municipalities, implementation organisations and departments at the best solution for the one-stop-shop function from a citizen's perspective. Mr Sneller asked a similar question. It was about a 24/7 point of contact, similar to what has already been set up for people abroad. Indeed, this is not yet the case for domestic services. Those services are for the time being filled in by reichsoverheid.nl, government.nl, my.publicity.nl and the services of the co-governments and implementing organisations. I do agree with Mr Sneller that if you look at how that window works worldwide, you might well imagine that it will be used on a wider scale. This is now being taken up by the project 1Government. We are going to see how we can further develop that good, international example to a citizen's window with a question to the Dutch government, regardless of their location, so of course also if it is in the Netherlands. In doing so, it is important that the citizen's perspective should be at the heart of the matter and that services should be stepped up. It should also focus on the demand of citizens to be able to reduce services in a certain way. Please note that this is not mandatory for all citizens. But it is a possibility, a service so to speak, which we can then offer. For the summer of next year, I will inform the Chamber further on this point. That was the end of block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u217	Look, thank you. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u218	That answers one of the two questions that came to my mind. The Secretary of State refers to the online domains. The beauty of the other is that this is also accessible by phone, so you can talk to someone if you want. Is that part of this plan, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u219	Yeah, yeah. That's what's in it. That is, of course, the outcome of the debate we have just had about being accessible and human contact. That's part of it. Various types of service are therefore available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u220	I have a small point of order, Mr President. I'd be delighted to listen to the Secretary of State, but we've had two cubes now and we've got two more to go. It's gonna be a while. I also note that we have got a lot of things on paper. Back in the old room, you could look outside. I think the sun's coming up a little bit. I have that feeling. Is there any way to figure out how to do it a little pointier? Maybe some things can be taken off in writing. Then we can move quickly to a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u221	You're asking me that question. The Secretary of State has had a lot of interruptions on the first block. The second block was very short. I'm guessing the next one's gonna be, too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u222	Thank you for the fact that Mr Bosma likes to listen to me. I have taken good note of his remark. I'll try to do it again. Mr. Chairman. The National Real Estate Company was addressed by a number of members in the first term. It is nice to see that we are already quite used to this room, which is already starting to feel a bit like our House of Representatives. I can say that in my double role. It all went well at the move. Of course, it's a temporary place. We hope that within time and budget we can return to the trusted Binnenhof and that we can offer the successors of these MPs a nice place there. The experience I have now, I have also spoken to many people, is that, with some minor problems of start-up, many are very satisfied with this temporary accommodation. The fact that one cannot look outside from here, I say to Mr Bosma. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bromet noted that too many buildings of the Empire have not been preserved. She asked me to take a look at that. I agree with GroenLinks that the Empire has an exemplary role in this, and so does the National Real Estate Company. We are pursuing the objectives of the Climate Agreement. We have an important role to play in this. That's why we sustain our assets, like our entire office portfolio, the prisons and the courts. We do this on behalf of the departments that use that housing. Of course, they're funding that, too. We have drawn up so-called roadmaps for sustainability. These describe an approach whereby, at natural moments, for example, a planned renovation, these kinds of facilities are included in order to achieve the intended climate goals. Using these natural moments means saving 20% costs or putting more effectiveness on the mat for the same money. So that's the way we do it. Moreover, in terms of capacity, we cannot give all buildings an update at the same time. But we take it extremely seriously. The advantage of the Empire is that it has a large portfolio. Mass means that at times you can do just what other projects can do and achieve bigger results than at all kinds of very small stamp locations. We are considering such innovative solutions for building management. The hybrid works also play a role in this. How are you gonna decorate that over the next few years and what does that mean for your office portfolio? In this respect, these are developments which I expect will be taken up in the coming years in high-speed rail transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u223	Is this the end of this block already? Well, well, well. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u224	That's fast, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? Thanks to the Secretary of State. Road maps are being worked on to make the real estate of the Empire more sustainable. My question is: has a roadmap been drawn up for each building and where does it ultimately lead? Is it true, for example, that in 2050 all buildings are free of CO emissions? That is the agreement of the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u225	Yeah, that's the core of the plan. I always say there can't be enough talk about real estate in the Chamber. The reality is that it happens a little less. There's not much to talk about. It's a very important enabler. What do you call that with a good Dutch word? You can really see the real estate of the Empire as an opportunity to achieve all kinds of goals we have, for example around housing, sheltering certain groups and the climate. There's so much potential in that that I think we could pick up a little untapped potential over the next few years. The answer to the question is yes. The aim of the roadmaps is to achieve the objectives set. A plan is made per portfolio or collection of buildings, depending on what they are used for, for example as a prison or defence location.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u226	That's enough. Proceed to the last block: the state service.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u227	Yeah, I'll join the state service. Mr Bishop asked a number of questions about this, as did Mrs Rajkowski. In any case, it is important to note that it is a good thing that the state service is diverse, with regard to officials working for the Empire and therefore for the citizens, that we ensure that everyone can participate in it. The government also has an exemplary role to play in the goals we have all set, with reference to the Stoffer motion. It is my job and my responsibility to see to it and, if necessary, to call upon departments to do more or to ensure that an additional step is taken. We also have to take care of it, and that is the little bridge to Mrs Rajkowski that you bring in people from the state service who bring in other experiences. These can be personal experiences, due to a background in business or in certain areas of knowledge that the government has difficulty with. We can still win some more there. Mrs Rajkowski rightly said that the labour market is rather tight when it comes to IT people or people with specialised jobs. We must avoid some kind of conflict with business. In any case, I can say that we are working extremely well with the business community, that we see that we both have an interest in making good use of scarce knowledge. Business also has an interest in encouraging the government to promote certain training courses, not to compete with each other, and to gain knowledge through universities and all kinds of organisations such as the AI Coalition. Our department also has contacts with large companies in the field of technology. This also creates social added value. Very specific, Mr. Chairman. Over the past few years, we have launched a vast programme to attract and retain IT people in the government. We started the I-traineeship, with which we have already brought in 370 trainees. These are young people, practically and theoretically trained, who help us keep all systems in the air. As a government, we are still one of the most popular IT employers in the Netherlands, which is also worth mentioning. You might not say it, but it is. That is also because such a debate as we have just had on the normative side of algorithms is conducted exclusively by the government. Someone who doesn't just want to be technical, but also with an issue like "do we want to do all this?" is extraordinary in the government's place. We have also made agreements with NLdigital, a representation of Dutch companies. Together with the Ministry of EZK, we have projects with large parties such as banks and companies that have an interest in technological development, in particular to work together from a HRM perspective. You also asked whether we are not too strict with the job vacancy requirements, whether we are not looking for too many officials instead of people who have other competences. That is a very valid point. I attach great importance to it myself, and I always stress that we also need outside knowledge, to run our own systems, to challenge and to bring in new insights. Through this cooperation with business, where people sometimes flow out and go to business and sometimes come back, we ensure that we have the latest state of the art. So it is a point of attention. It's not like it's all going very easily. Sometimes it seems complicated to bring people in. Precisely by making agreements with universities on research and training programmes at the front, where the government is also a place where projects that are socially extremely relevant, we also hope to show how attractive the government as an employer can be. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u228	Thank you very much. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I'm guessing it is, but not Mr. Bosma's. You may ask another question, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u229	I have just been able to take note of the pile of written answers. I have another question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u230	I think it's possible. Luckily, she's still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u231	She's still here, yeah. And her bundle is there, too, I see, the great book.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u232	I'm not going anywhere until you're gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u233	I was concerned about the questions I asked about the natural gas-free neighbourhoods and the test grounds. We talked about that. The PBL says that the 1.5 million houses in 2030 will not become natural gas; this needs to be adjusted downwards. Today this has become known by the PBL's explorations. The PBL doesn't like that. We at JA21 have been saying for a long time that it is very difficult to force people to get rid of natural gas. Eventually, it's priceless. For the whole built-up area, that's a billion-dollar project. Yeah, right up to the moon! I'm trying to get steamed up, Mr. Chairman. The bottom line is: what is the Minister's view of today's reconnaissance, which says that it doesn't actually succeed at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u234	Now I'm a little hesitant. You said at the beginning of the debate that this subject belongs in another debate. I said at the beginning of my term that I did answer a number of factual questions in writing because, of course, I would like to try to answer them as much as possible if questions were asked. But the subjects of energy transition, gas-free building and so on are of course discussed in another debate. And it's late. I have just heard Mr Bosma. I can answer this, but it's a little out of line with what we did tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u235	If you can answer the question now, I would say: let us do so. But then it really has to be here, Mr. Eerdmans. We've talked about it in detail. I should have stopped you, but I wasn't alert for a while. Well, Van Dale's important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u236	Then I will give a brief answer, Mr President. The short answer is that I never said that it would be easy to achieve the energy transition in the built environment. The whole scheme of the Natural Gas Free Neighbourhoods Programme sees that we need to start and learn. The beginning will be the most difficult. We already make scale in the new building, where we naturally build without gas. But it's hard to do that in the built environment. We've always realized that. But today's report really only encourages me to continue with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u237	Thank you. That's all we're gonna do for now. Thank you very much. Five minutes suspension has been requested. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u238	I ask everyone to take their place again, then we start with the second term. Mrs Rajkowski, you are the first speaker to speak because Mr Bosma has waived his second term. But he'll stay with us, so that's a good idea. That's the spirit, isn't it? Then you're a real MP. Just giving your colleagues some space. Mrs Rajkowski, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the reply and the debate. I have also seen a number of commitments in the written reply, as well as some explanations. We have just also had a debate on the GRECO recommendations, so thank you for that commitment. That leaves me with four things. One: the commitment to include government websites in the monitoring of security standards and protocols; thank you for that. Two: risk analysis for aldermen. I found it interesting that the answer on this point states that municipalities can actually start already. I'd like to emphasize that from here on out. Where I am in contact with municipalities, municipal councils or local parties, I will also stress this, because why should we wait if they can do this already? Three: the implementation test and the legislative letters that authorities could send. That's about the Klem report between desk and policy. At least that was a question on my part. The answer was: in the further development of these actions, attention will also be paid to the use of legislative letters. I'm not sure what that means: paying attention to legislative letters. What exactly does that mean? Does this mean, for example, that in the future, this will take into account the extent to which legislative letters can be a solution, so that implementing agencies can be given more space and have more tools to proactively indicate when they are involved in implementation? Because that was the ultimate goal, which was why I asked those questions. Four, last but not least, I would like to table a motion. Then I'll have to read the operative part, right? That's the rule, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u240	No, you can read the motion all the way. It's quite a story, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u241	Yeah, I've got time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u242	Yes, you have all the time; you have 13 minutes or so. I don't know. You may be satisfied with the operative part, but you may also read the motion completely. Well, that's kind of common.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u243	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that our vital infrastructure, including that of the government, is the target of cyber attacks;]] [[Considering that NCTV in the Cybersecurity image of the Netherlands 2021 indicates that digital processes are the "nerve system" of society, because they are indispensable for its undisturbed functioning, and that cyber attacks affect this nervous system and may eventually lead to paralysis, including in the government;]] [[noting that De Nederlandsche Bank uses the Tiber-NL programme to test, through realistic threats, how financial institutions are resistant to cyber attacks, with the aim of understanding strong and weak components of digital systems, to learn from them, then to improve systems and share experiences;]] [[considers that the Tiber-NL tests can contribute to the digital security of the government;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether the Tiber-Netherlands tests or similar tests can also be applied within the organisation of the government, to share the experiences and lessons learned from them nationally, and to inform the Court thereof before 1 April 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Rajkowski, Mr Ceder, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Arib, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Ginneken, Mr Dassen, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u244	Now I know why motions in the Lower House are always shorter than those in local democracy, because you have to read them all out. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u245	I congratulate you on your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u247	I call Mrs Leijten of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u248	Mr. Chairman. The government withdraws from society and turns its back on the interests of people who can use a little support. That's not over: we're only at the beginning of solving it. I am really sorry that the Secretary of State has acted like we are all a little out of our minds here in his term. Like we're not seeing it all right. Like all those city aldermen who e-mail us that they have to choose between the pool and the library are also a little bit crazy. They can't even pay for transportation for children who have to go to special education. I don't think it's so appropriate. Furthermore, I do not think it is appropriate that we do not get an answer to the question of the algorithms used and to "function elsewhere"; you name it all. I have another amendment for an additional billion for the Community fund. I trust that the government will be able to take a positive look at this. I also have a motion for a resolution because I believe that we in the House of Representatives should strike a line through the course of action of the UHT and the Committee on Real Damage, which cannot come out together, which means that a person who has to go to court for the payment scandal has to be cut off. How? It scares the hell out of people. It scares them. It can't be! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that by far the majority of the victims of the surcharge scandal are still not compensated;]] [[Considering that many of the victims still have to deal every day with the profound consequences of the surcharge scandal, such as serious debt problems, psychological distress and home expulsions;]] [[noting that a recognised injured recently needed the court to prevent a removal from the home because the Implementing Organisation Recovery Fees and the Commission did not intervene in actual damage while there was a discretionary power;]] [[calls on the government not to accept that victims of wrongdoing in the Tax Office are again forced to go to court and to arrange that it was never again that people should be rescued by the judge from a home expulsion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Leijten, Mr Arib, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Dassen, Mr Bromet, Mr Bishop, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons and Mr Martin Bosma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u249	I sincerely hope that the negotiating coalition will join us this weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u250	Thank you very much. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the directors for the answer, also for the written answer. I understand very well that the rulers did this, because otherwise it would have been much later here. However, it feels less insightful to the people who are following the debate, and sometimes less satisfactory. Anyway, I understand. Another observation I tasted through different themes concerned rules based on trust. We often preach them, but in my opinion, we also feel that we prefer to resort to the certainty of sanctions and enforcement on a number of issues. That was about the algorithms, but I've also seen it on a number of integrity points. I also mention agreements on transparency. I hope that the letter the Minister has promised on GRECO will also show that ambition. In any case, I have seen the interruptions of the Chamber as support in her back. It was in written response on the agendas of directors. It is not without obligation, because the Chamber can appeal to directors. I do not think this is enough, and that is why I have a motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the Open State Foundation shows that external agreements of directors are poorly kept, in some ministries only ten appointments in four years;]] [[noting that the study of the Open State Foundation also shows that access to directors is unbalanced because business has many times more access to directors than NGOs;]] [[Whereas there are numerous good examples abroad of directors and senior public representatives who systematically keep track of their external agreements in publicly accessible agendas;]] [[Considers that openness about external agreements contributes to a new governance culture and to improving confidence in government and politics;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the Public Agendas Implementing Directive, to keep the public agendas of the directors more systematically by including all external agreements in the agendas, at least specifying the subject matter of the appointment, simply arranging the appointments by category and keeping them up to date as much as possible in real time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u252	This motion, Mrs Rajkowski, is indeed far too long and has been co-signed by Mr Bromet. Following Mr Leijten's comment on the UWV, which refers to 'customers', I would like to remind the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's commitment to reduce the word 'customer' when it comes to citizens, people, students, parents or whatever their status vis-à-vis the government. The Prime Minister was right to find that out. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to the one-stop shop. Finally. Article 7 of the Intergovernmental Relations Code deals not only with the joint analysis made by the Minister with the co-governments, but also with the fact that she and the Minister of General Affairs will draw attention to the fact that they will be consulted more strongly on issues that concern them. So I guess that's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u253	Thank you very much. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Arib of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Home Secretary for her answers. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I have considered the Wob requests and how problematic they are. The Minister replied in writing. I'm a little disappointed in one sentence. The answer says: "An additional problem is that, in Wob practice, we are increasingly faced with extensive and unfocused requests. This makes the handling complex and time-consuming." I was wondering what exactly that meant, because today I also read a piece of Follow the Money that is being considered about practices that are currently under way. It states that the government preaches transparency, but tries to keep the shutters closed behind the scenes. The State wants to be able to reject extensive requests for information, such as the "Shell papers." That scares me. This shows that the main aim is to respect the Wob as badly as possible. That casts its shadow ahead of the Open Government Act. The intention is that this law will create a different culture in terms of transparency, but when I read how the directors and officials now regard de Wob as a difficult law and look for ways of getting out of it, I already know how the Woo will be doing in the near future. If nothing changes, the law will only be looked at from the workload it brings instead of giving the citizen the information he is entitled to. Then the Woo will only serve to release the information that the government itself wants to release. That's not the point. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has made a commitment following the debate on villages where there are no more facilities. At first he said we already have the overview. I would very much like a commitment that we will have an overview of the facilities in which villages and regions have been cut or disappeared and what this State Secretary is going to do about it. Then I don't mean a phone number, but what he's going to do to make sure the facilities come back. At least that's how I understood it. Finally, a motion on lobbying, not only by directors, but also by former chamber members. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas former Chamber members have free access to the House of Representatives;]] [[Whereas lobbyists with a fixed entry pass for the Chamber only have access to the semi-public spaces of the House of Representatives;]] [[whereas many former roommates also work as lobbyists;]] [[Whereas former members of the Chamber are always admitted to the Chamber building by agreement;]] [[calls on the Bureau to ensure that former Chamber members have access to the Chamber building in the same way as lobbyists with a fixed access pass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arib, Mr Leijten, Mr Dassen, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u255	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u256	Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA waives her second term. I give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u257	Mr. Chairman. First, a small cry of hearts. It is addressed not only to the directors present here, but actually to all directors. I believe that the answers of the rulers sometimes take a very long time. I think it's the right answers, but sometimes I think they can be shorter. I am going to say this in other debates as well, because it takes longer than is necessary and we have a great deal to do here. I have three motions for resolutions on the debate. The first motion deals with the agreements made with the VNG and the IPO on how to deal with each other, how to pay what is needed, that there is enough money for municipalities, that there are viable plans and that local authorities are being decentralised strengthened. That's this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a joint note on inter-administrative and financial relations has been drawn up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the umbrella bodies of fellow governments;]] [[Whereas the inter-administrative and financial framework conditions set out in this memorandum are essential in order to achieve the major societal challenges of this moment;]] [[points out that the recommendations contained in this memorandum should be the starting point for the financial arrangements between the Empire and the local authorities for the coming period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bromet, Mr Den Haan, Mr Bishop, Mr Simons, Mr Leijten, Mr Arib, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u258	The second motion concerns organic farming, and I will submit it together with Mrs van der Plas. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the share of organic farming, now around 4% of the area, is still far below the European targets of 25% in 2030;]] [[Whereas the government is a large consumer of food and can contribute to increasing the share of organic farming;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how the government can increase the purchase of organic products from Dutch farmers and gardeners, including the tendering requirements, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 March 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u259	Yeah, I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u260	Yes. Mrs. Van der Plas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u261	Now it's a nice interruption, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u262	You're not going down, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u263	I can tell you that they were tough negotiations before we came to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u264	I thought you were a little quiet tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u265	That's right. I thought I was going to spend all my speaking time on this. I would just like to say that I am very happy that we can also hang out together. For us, we can also indicate the following. Sorry, I have a candy in my mouth. You can't do that. We are simply looking at the content of motions and not at parties. We can sometimes be in the clinch and the next day we can hang out again. I personally like working that way. It does not mean that I exclude common agriculture, but certainly Mrs Bromet was right yesterday if we want these farmers to be able to make a transition, then we are the first to... The candy's really bothering me. I just shouldn't. I'm sorry. By the way, the candy is a Fisherman's Friend. Oh, that's advertising, and you can't do that. Let's get rid of that. Without fooling around, at least I'm glad we can table this motion together. Next time we may be back in the fight mode, but that doesn't mean anything about the good cooperation that we can sometimes have together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u266	Great, thank you. Do you still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u267	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u268	Of course, I don't want to disturb this warm marriage, but this is just a motion for agriculture, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u269	No, because it's about the government's procurement policy. The Empire is a party that makes calls for tenders, and it's about those tenders. So this is a great place to discuss it. Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many decisions taken in politics have a far-reaching impact on the future of young people and it is therefore a good thing that they can take part in deciding their own future;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the Public Administration Board and the State Committee have issued parliamentary system opinions to involve young people more in (political) decision-making;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with youth organisations in the short term, in the light of these recommendations, and to draw up a concrete action agenda on how to increase young people's involvement in (political) decision-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u270	The motion is a bit focused on the plea I made yesterday for lowering the electoral age to 16 years. But because it requires a constitutional change and it is still far ahead of us, we want to take steps in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u271	Thank you very much. I call Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's enthusiasm for the Constitution in courts, courts and the Council of State. I would like to make a statement to the House on this matter, which is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch Constitution is of great importance for the democratic rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss the case-law with a view to establishing a visible form of representation of the Dutch Constitution in, at or at all Dutch courts, courts and the buildings of the Supreme Court and the Council of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u273	Next, I would like to table a motion on the vulnerable neighbourhoods. I asked questions about that yesterday. I have had some of the answers in writing, but I think it is important, in particular, to remove the policy cuts that are now being experienced, precisely because it is an interdepartmental project. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research into the Livability and Security Programme for Vulnerable Districts shows that the government can do more to effectively achieve an area-oriented approach addressing cross-thematic problems;]] [[calls on the government in the programme to remove the divisions between policy budgets and to adapt national rules that stand in the way of an integrated approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Discrimination against unvaccinated people is becoming increasingly serious. When the mandatory QR code was introduced, it was said that vaccination would remain a free choice at all times. There were two reasons for this time and again, firstly that unvaccinated people could simply be tested and secondly that the QR code would only be mandatory for non-essential provisions. Therefore, there would be no discrimination but a legitimate distinction. But both reasons are total fallacy! Of course, the fundamental point is that it is totally unacceptable that healthy people have to prove to the assembly line at all that they do not have a common cold virus in order to lead a normal life. On top of that, however, it is of course totally unreasonable to demand that unvaccinated people violate their physical integrity every 24 hours if they want to keep the possibility of having a cup of coffee spontaneously. To the extent that there are differences of opinion on this matter, there is now talk in cabinet circles about completely abolishing that test option, the so-called 2G policy. Secondly, these non-essential provisions. Firstly, it is not at all up to the government to determine what are or are not essential provisions. We'll make up our own minds. There are people who commit suicide because they are excluded from access to essential facilities for them. The fact that the Minister considers other provisions essential does not alter that at all. However, the QR code is already being openly discussed in the field of education and in the workplace. Even the Minister could not maintain in this debate that these would not be essential provisions. Mr. Chairman. All in all, unvaccinated people are increasingly excluded and molested. The dirty game being played against unvaccinated people is becoming increasingly unreasonable. The stigma around unvaccinated people is becoming increasingly grim, both here in politics and in the media, both among so-called experts and in the workplace. The cabinet is now openly speculating that freedom restrictions will apply specifically to unvaccinated people. Exclusion of unvaccinated people would no longer be taboo and there is increasingly a division in society between first- and second-class citizens. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely now that these plans are being prepared in backrooms that it is crucial for the Chamber to show that stigmatisation and exclusion of population groups is no place and that the Chamber with the Forum for Democracy believes that discrimination is not allowed on any basis whatsoever. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that discrimination on the basis of vaccination status is not permitted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meijeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And also thanks to the rulers for all the answers. We have talked about lobby registers a few times this evening. Now we have a lobby register in the Chamber, and I was talking to Mr Sneller about that. We found that the lobby register has not been updated since 11 November 2020. It might be good to check that out. I would like to pass that on to the chairman, following Mrs Arib and the motion she has just tabled. Indeed, there are no former room members in it, not even former room members who lobby, and that is quite special. Hopefully this can be included in the update we're going to get from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u276	I'll direct this section of the stenogram to the Presidium.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u277	Thank you. Then I am very looking forward to the letter on the GRECO recommendations. We will amend our motion on the lobby register, but we are likely to present it as a result of the debate. I will discuss this tomorrow in my group. But now another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the use of algorithmic decision-making systems may lead to discriminatory consequences for people;]] [[Whereas transparency with regard to the use of algorithmic decision-making by the government may enable people to provide meaningful information on the decision-making and the logic of government decision-making;]] [[Whereas it helps people to control the government in relation to decision-making to which they are subject;]] [[calls on the Government to make compulsory the use of the government's announced algorithm registry for public authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons, Mr Bromet and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u278	Thank you. Thank you for your answer, including the written one. I would have liked to discuss some more in plenary, but I also understand the time pressure we are facing. The cubes are therefore limited. Nevertheless, I would like to recall and recall a number of things from the first-term debate. Mr. Chairman. I brought three cubes, three motions. That is one about natural gas-free, another about targets for status holders, and the third is about local political parties at the decentralised level, i.e. the local independent parties. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that last year the National Court of Auditors took a very critical view of the Natural Gas Free Districts Programme and stated that expectations were raised that could not be met;]] [[Considering that the Plan Bureau for the Environment now also concludes that the objective of 1.5 million natural gas-free dwellings will not be achieved under the Climate Agreement by 2030;]] [[noting that these conclusions are in line with the disappointing results and failed pilots in the pilot gardens of the Natural Gas Free Districts Programme;]] [[calls on the Government to release the agreement under the Climate Agreement to free 1.5 million existing homes from natural gas by 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u279	I am very curious to see how colleagues will react to this. Second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a housing shortage of more than 300,000 homes;]] [[noting that municipalities are forced from the Empire to house large numbers of status holders by means of missions;]] [[noting that these targets are unachievable for many municipalities;]] [[noting that municipalities which fail to meet these targets may face sanctions, including fines and interventions by the province at the expense of the municipality itself;]] [[Whereas such sanctions are not reasonable in the present circumstances;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from sanctions, including fines and interventions by the Province, for municipalities that are unable to meet these targets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u280	The latter reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that political parties at decentralised level still do not receive party funding;]] [[Considering that almost one in three voters vote on a local party in the municipal elections;]] [[noting that this is an increasing level playing field;]] [[noting that the Veling Committee recommends that the overall level of subsidy for all parties with seats at decentralised level be equal to that of the national level;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the new Political Parties Act equal subsidies for parties at national and decentralised level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u281	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answer to the questions, including the written response, and I would also like to thank the staff for the questions. I have two motions. Those have a bit to do with the.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I had hoped, for example, that the Minister would respond a little more strongly to the fundamental meaning of the Constitution. That needs a little more attention than we could get in the interrupting debate. But the motions are about something else. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in view of the far-reaching consequences for those affected by the dismissal of an acting mayor, it is desirable to have a clear legal framework for such dismissal;]] [[noting that the municipal law does have rules for the appointment of the acting mayor, but not for his resignation;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a legislative proposal to regulate the procedure for the dismissal of an acting mayor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Strolenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u282	This has everything to do with... There is indeed a legal procedure now. But this is separate from the legal procedure; these are the general frameworks. My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the importance of digital public access has been highlighted in recent years;]] [[noting that the Digital Accessibility Monitor 2021 indicates that only 4% of the public sector websites would be fully digitally accessible;]] [[Calls on the Government to set ambitious targets for the coming years to increase the number of public sector websites that are fully digitally accessible;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u283	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u284	Thank you. I am going to give the floor to Mr Van Baarle of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u285	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the directors for their reply and I thank the Chamber for the exchange of views. For the sake of clarity, I shall proceed immediately to read out the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that independent researchers advise the establishment of a National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism to ensure a multi-annual budget that gradually rises to EUR 5 million;]] [[noting that the government has now provided only a budget of EUR 2 million per year;]] [[considers that it is essential that the current team of the NCDR should now be able to work quickly and in substance, but that there should be clarity about future budgets;]] [[calls on the government to use as a starting point a budget for the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism which gradually builds up to a budget of EUR 5 million, in accordance with the independent advice, and to seek coverage in future budgets in non-legally compulsory expenditure within the budgets, without jeopardising other expenditure in the fight against discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that discrimination is increasingly taking place in the online domain, using personal characteristics in algorithms in a discriminatory way;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that algorithms, including in the public sector, are checked for transparency for supervision, discrimination and randomness, and to strengthen the algorithm watchdog function of existing supervisors in order to intervene when rights are violated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the premium affair, investigations into discrimination in the housing market, investigations into ethnic profiling and investigations into discrimination by temporary employment agencies show that there is a major problem of professional discrimination in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the only solution is never to increase the level of criminal penalties, but to increase the level of criminal penalties and to provide compensation for victims;]] [[calls on the Government to send a bill to the Chamber providing for an increase in the penalty for professional discrimination, as laid down in Article 137g of the Code of Criminal Law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government indicates that many measures are not explicitly labelled as "against discrimination" and that therefore a precise representation of expenditure on anti-discrimination may be difficult;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to improve the financial accountability of the government's anti-discrimination expenditure in order to clarify the overview of anti-discrimination expenditure and to include in future the financial overview of anti-discrimination progress notes;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government indicates that it is difficult to formulate good indicators to determine the success of efforts to prevent discrimination;]] [[Calls on the Government to ask the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism to advise the Government on how to improve the measurement of the effectiveness of anti-discrimination measures;]] [[calls on the Government, including on the basis of this opinion, to submit a proposal to the Court to improve the assessment of the effectiveness of anti-discrimination policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the premium affair makes it clear that discrimination still occurs more than occasionally in the public authorities;]] [[Calls on the Government to set up a hotline for discriminatory behaviour and discriminatory expressions for the whole state;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to make the reporting of discriminatory behaviour and discriminatory expressions more explicit within the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the premium affair makes it clear that discrimination still occurs more than occasionally in the public authorities;]] [[Calls on the Government to review the oath of office following the motion of Member Ellian (35570, No. 63), to consider how fundamental rights, including the principle of non-discrimination laid down in Article 1 of the Constitution, can be better served in the oath of office of state officials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has prepared the non-discrimination by design hand-out, which contains practical recommendations for non-discriminatory application of algorithms;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the extent to which non-discrimination by design is known to relevant administrations and local authorities one year after the distribution of this hand-out, and to examine the extent to which the recommendations are being implemented, and to inform the Court of results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-35]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-36]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-37]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-38]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons, Mr Rajkowski and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u287	Thank you. I call Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that I have 12 minutes, so I can take my time to thank the rulers for answering the questions and also their officials for doing a lot of work. In view of the fact that a number of colleagues and I have been sitting here for three nights until deep into the night, I would also like to thank the messengers and the people in the restaurant for their fantastic support. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities receive funds through the Municipal Fund for the implementation of the WMO and the Youth Act;]] [[Whereas municipalities have freedom of policy to determine what they spend it on, which means that there are different basic provisions in the different municipalities;]] [[Whereas some municipalities are now obliged to close financial gaps in, for example, youth care through funds earmarked for other purposes, which puts pressure on other important facilities such as care support and day-to-day spending;]] [[considers it undesirable that there are Wmo refugees;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to design frameworks for essential basic services to be present in each municipality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u289	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an increasing focus on further digitisation of government and communication between residents and the public authorities;]] [[Whereas one of the public authorities' objectives is to provide secure and inclusive digital public services;]] [[Whereas parts of the population have difficulties with increasing digitalisation, such as the elderly and the low-literate;]] [[calls on the government to consider how young people can be actively involved in guiding groups in our society that are more struggling with digital change,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Arib, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u291	Thank you, Mrs van der Plas from BBB has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u292	Thank you. For my part, too, I would like to thank the rulers for their answers, although sometimes they are somewhat thin with Mr Bishop. Anyway, thank you. I have one motion. I only have one minute, so I have to hurry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Kingdom has agreed with the Interprovincial Consultation (IPO) and the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) on the standardisation of the Province Fund and the Municipal Fund on the basis of the principle of "up the stairs together, down the stairs";]] [[noting that those agreements state that if the Empire is given room for additional expenditure, this also leads to additional financial space for municipalities and provinces, i.e.: up the stairs together;]] [[asks the cabinet to comply with the agreements made with provinces and municipalities, both in the implementation of the Hermans motion (35925, No. 13) as with other files of IPO and VNG, and to continue to apply the standards agreements, so that municipalities and provinces have sufficient resources to perform their decentralised tasks properly and citizens do not have to be driven at extra high costs by increasing, for example, the ICI,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Arib, Mr Leijten, Mr Bromet, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Van Haga, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Den Haan, Mr Dassen, Mr Simons and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2018, the State Committee on Parliamentary System stated that the decreasing legislative power, the slackening attention to the quality of legislation and an increasing appeal by citizens to legal protection against lack of legislation strengthen the need for constitutional review by the courts;]] [[Whereas the situation in which the legislature may itself judge the First Chamber, the Second Chamber and the Government on the constitutionality of its own products clearly leads to the repeated violation of the fundamental rights of citizens, as happened in the supplement scandal, and that this is undesirable;]] [[noting that on 29 April 2021, the Chamber of Commerce and Citizens' Rights held the motion for a resolution. adopted a request to the Government to submit, within one year, legislative proposals to delete Article 120 of the Constitution;]] [[Considering that in 2018 the State Committee recommended parliamentary system not only to allow constitutional review by a judge, but also to establish a constitutional court;]] [[Whereas legal certainty and legal unit are of the utmost importance in court cases relating to our most basic rights, and it is therefore more desirable to concentrate constitutional review on a constitutional court alone;]] [[calls on the government or government to do so. the new government in the implementation of the Liège motion c.s. pay particular attention to examining how and when a Constitutional Court can be set up, what forms the Court could take and also forward the ensuing proposals to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas ethnic profiling is a violation of the first Article of our Constitution;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the use of ethnicity and nationality as risk factors in the formulation of risk profiles by, inter alia, police, tax authorities and investigation services, while paying particular attention to digital means used to track citizens, such as discriminatory algorithms and software,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no legal definition of "anti-black" or "islamophobia" and the legal definition of "discrimination" does not reflect the structural nature of racism in all its forms;]] [[whereas anti-discrimination legislation and criminal law are therefore inadequate in the fight against discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government, together with lawyers, experience experts and other experts, to adopt a legal definition concerning the structural nature of these forms of repression;]] [[calls on the Government to come to the Chamber with a proposal to incorporate this legal definition into anti-discrimination legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-43]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u295	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u296	I would like to ask Mrs Simons if she thinks I'm a racist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u297	I don't know if you're a racist. Maybe I don't know you well enough for that. But I have to say to the lack of knowledge that I have of you that I am not at this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u298	Well, that's a doubting answer. Then I would like to ask the following follow-up question. Then why, in the run-up to the elections as well as until now, has it happened five or six times that active, prominent BEC1 people make me feel like a racist...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u299	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u300	... that this will then become a huge Twitter bus that is dangling over me and that you will not intervene as party leader?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u301	I have not yet seen what Mrs Leijten is saying here. But what has come to my attention on a regular basis, well before the elections, well before I was a Member of Parliament, are the words spoken by prominent members of her party. And, you know, Mr President, I myself find it a little absurd to appeal to Mrs Leijten here in the Chamber when she submits a motion asking, for example, to intervene in the event of racism. Mr. Chairman. I don't know if Mrs Leijten is a racist. I don't know her well enough for that. I myself, on the basis of the lack of knowledge I have of her, do not have the impression that she is a racist. But if Mrs Leijten is so deeply concerned that people are wrongly accused of everything, I would ask Mrs Leijten to address her own party members who have devoted column after column after column after column after column to my person. They have not always used the specific words that Mrs Leijten is asking for. But after column after column after column after column after column they have been working on what I would like to call "demonizing my person."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u302	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u303	I indicated here yesterday in this Chamber that I think that when you have a debate, you should do so here. Then I can answer. Then I can go into that. You shouldn't have two debates next to each other. It happens for a reason. First it was your party's number two and now it's your group's staff that I walk by every day. It's people who call me racist and never say that personally and never ask a personal question. It always happens...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u304	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u305	You're next.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u306	It always happens in relationship...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u307	You're next. We speak here one by one, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u308	You just said you didn't know the tweet. Now you know they don't call me racist. They might call it different. It's a decoy call. Do you know why they do that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u309	Mrs. Leijten, would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u310	They do this because in recent years I have revealed that there has been a deep, deeply discriminatory system in the Tax Administration that many people have been victims of and because I call it discrimination and racism. Do you know why they're angry? Because I don't just call it racism. I call it sad that that happens on Twitter. I speak to the party leader, who always talks about connection and says "don't hang out with each other" in this room. Here we are conducting the debate and here we are speaking with each other. I would like to ask Mrs Simons, if she is so keen on respect for each other, to ask that of her prominent party members in their approach to other MPs who are involved in the fight against these discriminatory aspects of government. 'Cause together, we're stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u311	Mr. Chairman. Let me repeat once again that I personally have not yet seen one of my party members mention Mrs Leijten as a racist. If Mrs Leijten feels that someone is accusing her of racism, then Mrs Leijten must appeal to that person. But she shouldn't be here accusing people who aren't behind this chair, of something I personally haven't seen. What I did see is this. That is what Mrs Leijten is referring to, so I can go into that. I was in this room yesterday. I have heard that another Member of Parliament made an argument here that was related to the surcharge scandal. I didn't tweet about it, because you have to know for yourself what you're saying. But I did hear what Mrs Leijten said at the time, and I did see a tweet by a member of the party about that: you are pretending that there are no Dutch victims of the surcharge scandal. I heard Mrs Leijten say that yesterday in this Chamber to another Member of Parliament. He's over there, Mr. Ceder. What I have seen is a tweet from someone who is a member of BET1. Let me tell you: I do not feel responsible for everything that every member of my party tweets. That tweet said: all the victims of the surcharge scandal are Dutch. I think it is somewhat inappropriate, at this late hour, to have a debate with Mrs Leijten, when she has to do so with someone who is not here. She also accuses that person, who is not standing here and cannot defend herself, of calling her a racist. I didn't see that tweet. But I repeat, President...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u312	No, no, we're not repeating anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u313	Mr President, things are being thrown at me here, and I would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u314	You already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u315	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to repeat that if Mrs Leijten has so much difficulty in demonising and falsely accusing people, she should at least address her party members, at least party member Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u316	That's where we're really gonna leave it. We're not gonna figure it out tonight, Mrs. Leijten. We can go on about this for a long time, but we're not gonna do that. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u317	I have said so many times in this Chamber: why does the Tax Office make someone who is Dutch a Turkish? I've put up videos on that with your partymate or policy officer. I've spoken to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u318	Mrs. Leijten, what's happening on Twitter...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u319	We're gonna stop now. This isn't gonna work out tonight, I'm afraid. There's another interruption by Mrs. Arib for you. We're gonna hear it now. Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u320	I find this a painful discussion because I know Mrs Leijten very well and have been working with her for years. I don't know what changed on Twitter. Mrs Simons says she doesn't know Mrs Leijten well enough, so she doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u321	Yeah, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u322	I know. If there is anyone who is very committed to all citizens, with any colour, then it is Mr Leijten, so it hurts me when such an involved colleague is called racist. I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u323	You'll be back in a minute. Mrs Simons, we speak here one by one. I now give you the floor to respond in one sentence, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have never, at any time, called Mrs Leijten a racist. Mrs Leijten asks me whether I know whether she is a racist or not. My answer is: I don't know, but I don't think so. That's my answer. But to turn that into that I call Mrs Leijten here a racist, that goes a little far for me. I'll tell you even more. In my spare time, I'm not keeping track of who is or isn't a racist. It really goes a little too far for words to be put in my mouth here that I am absolutely not saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u325	I cannot do anything in that, except that I am trying to lead this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u326	I'll let the Chamber know through you. And I will also let the Chamber know, through you, again, that I am not responsible for everything that anyone who writes in his Twitter bio puts the word BE1 on Twitter. That's one. And that I haven't seen anyone calling her a racist, and Mrs. Leijten knows exactly why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u327	Good. Then there is another interruption for you from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am actually a little embarrassed about this and I find it rather shocking that this is happening. I also find it strange, with your permission, that Mrs Simons, as party leader, does not want to take responsibility for things that are said by people on her list. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Simons, because I have such experience: do you think I should be put to death?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u329	Firstly, Mr President, Mrs Leijten does not refer to anyone on my list. Mrs Leijten has just asked me about a tweet from someone who is a member of BET1. That's not the number two. If Mrs Leijten is talking about another tweet, she's going to tell us now. Then I will answer Mr Van Haga's question: I do not think you should get a bullet in the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u330	Fine. That's good. That seems like an unexpected happy ending to me. No, but I'm really gonna end this. I have the responsibility for this debate. There are still 15 colleagues here watching this and a lot of people at home, perhaps. I don't think this is the time for us to get together. We have to do it at another time. I'd say you're going to have a good talk with each other. I want to play a part in that, too, but I'm really gonna end this now, Mr. Van Haga. This is it. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u331	Mr. Chairman. It's happened to me at least five times since the election that I get thrown in front of the Twitter bus this way. I have also spoken to Mrs Simons personally about this and said that I was very sorry about that. Now it was that one tweet you know, but in the past it was also the number two, because I went to GeenStijl, because I had responded in right-wing media, for that kind of reason. I really hope we just don't do it anymore. You don't have to. We are fellow fighters in relation to the Tax Administration, who are still gagging people. Let's put all the energy into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u332	If Mrs Leijten had really wanted to put all the energy into that, she would not have set this painful debacle in motion here tonight. That's one. I can say a lot about the number two, but I think it is well known that this gentleman is no longer an active part of my party. On the tweet to which Mrs Leijten refers, which she has sent me and which she now says she has addressed me to, did I answer her, outside the Chamber, or not? Those aren't things you need to bring in right now. Those are things that you and I have already discussed, Mrs Leijten. You were just talking about another tweet. "It repeats itself," I hear you say. But it's repeating itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u333	Thank you, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u334	No, Mr. Chairman, I have to say this for a moment. It's been repeating itself in my life for ten years. I've never spoken to you about what Mr. Van Reak writes about me in GeenStijl. Never! I do not see the point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u335	We're gonna stop this. You keep talking, Mrs Simons, but I'm quitting now, because it's about Mr Van Raak and he's not there. He can't say anything. I stopped Mrs Leijten too. Finally, the very last time. Please stand still, Mrs. Simons. Mr. Van Haga, really finishing up. You have received a clear answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u336	I did not get a clear answer to my question at all. That was my first question, too. I have not committed any interruption this evening, and now you are taking the floor. I find that really disgusting. I hold your Presidency responsible for that. I'm really sorry this is happening. I ask a question: do you think I should be put to death? I'm responding to the horrible thing about Mrs. Leijten. I think it's really disgusting that this is happening. I fully support Mrs Leijten in that. What happened is that someone on the list of BE1, the number six, I believe, or the number seven, wants to put a bullet in my head. I filed a report. The party leader is standing here and doesn't distance himself from it, doesn't say anything, doesn't do anything. And about such a felony that I'm exposing, you want to take the floor. That's ridiculous, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u337	Let me get this straight. You're addressing me now. I did not want to take the floor for that reason. I wanted to stop this discussion because we're not gonna fix this here. That's what I did, and that has nothing to do with you or anyone else. I would have done that, whoever was there. I understand your emotions very well. I understand the emotion of everyone here very well. It seemed to me to be useful, also to the other Members of Parliament, and given the nature of this debate, it seemed to me that we are not going to get out of this tonight. That was my reason. Well, you've now made it clear why you asked the question. That seems to me sufficient for this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u338	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u339	Of course. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u340	Mr Van Haga has asked me a question: whether I think he should be put to death. That's a very direct question. I also gave a very direct answer. But Mr Van Haga: you and many Members of Parliament with you have butter on the head when they ask me such a question, while almost... Mr President, sometimes it is better not to speak, because when you speak, you must be able to support your words. You asked me a direct question: do I think you should be put in the head? The answer is no. What happened to the number six? If that had been so important to you, I cannot imagine, because I know who was number six on my list, so you could have discussed it with me. If you want to press charges against me or against my party, you can do that. But now gratuitous jump on Mrs. Leijten's bandwagon? Shame on you. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u341	Thank you. We're quitting. That concludes the second term... Oh, excuse me! We still have Mr. Van Haga. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u342	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u343	In particular, I'd say you're making a complaint. I don't have time for you anymore. Mr. Van Haga, one minute. Okay, that's what you've just been asked. It's gotta be really quiet right now. I call Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u344	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present state monuments and municipal monuments are very difficult to isolate, as national, but also mostly municipal, rules prevent the isolation of monuments;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how obstacles to the isolation of monuments can be removed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which a national directive can be drawn up for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities often require high rates of social housing from private builders;]] [[noting that this often means that construction projects do not go ahead;]] [[calls on the government to encourage municipalities to leave the building of social housing to the corporations and no longer make demands on private builders in this area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-46]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u346	Thank you. That concludes the second term on the part of the Chamber. The regiments have requested a 15-minute suspension, so I'm going to give them that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u347	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Members of Parliament and to everyone who is still here at this late hour. Or early hours; it's just how you look at it. I'm gonna try to do it as soon as possible, so I'm gonna focus on the motions. I note, however, that one Member of Parliament felt that it was a pity that a lot had been answered in writing and that we could not have much debate here, while other Members of Parliament said: it should also be a little shorter. You'd almost think it's never good. But we have indeed done our best by doing a part in writing. We're trying to be concise in our response. There's always room for improvement. Mrs Leijten said that I had not answered a number of questions. I hope I answered all the questions. Perhaps the answer was not always to Mrs Leijten's satisfaction. Also in the written set were questions she just mentioned. We have answered the questions, but I am the first to admit that, if you have little time, it is late in the evening and there is little room for interruptions, sometimes the debates cannot lead to final results. I'm sorry about that, too. I actually only have one question I wanted to answer, and then I would like to deal with the motions. It was a question from Mrs Arib. She pointed out the answers I gave about the Wob. She pointed out an article by Follow the Money that was published today. I'll take a little distance from her interpretation of the answer I gave. The Wob is an important instrument. Publicity is one of the most important features of the democratic rule of law. That is what I said in my first term. The implementation of public access legislation is therefore very important. Not only do I think so; the cabinet thinks so, and the government thinks so. We must therefore try to deal with requests for information within the deadlines. Follow the Money's article shows that it can be very difficult to decide on a timely basis when dealing with large-scale requests. In fact, it doesn't always work at all, and that's often because it's a huge amount of documents, which aren't always easy to find in the still somewhat poor information system of the government. It's under the Wob now, and it'll be under the Woo soon. Until we get that information system in order, we're just dealing with that handicap. This means that you need to look for ways to deal with large requests, for example by fast delivery of some of the pieces. We do that with the setting of: how can we do it? Preferably within the time limits in force, but subject to the agreements that apply, for example because it is necessary to ask for an opinion from third parties. It is therefore not an unwillingness, but sometimes an inability to comply with the request within the time limit set for that purpose. But it's important, and it's still important. It's gonna have to be better. That was the question I wanted to answer. Then I'm gonna walk through the motions. Any motion I pass, you'll be given an opinion by the Secretary of State. The motion I shall begin with is the Leijten motion in part No. 17. I hope that Mrs Leijten will give me the opportunity to record this with Mr Van Huffelen tomorrow morning and to ensure that an appreciation of the motion comes to the Chamber before the votes. I cannot really give that appreciation because I cannot consult Mrs Van Huffelen at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u349	Actually, I was hoping for another answer. I will inform Mrs Van Huffelen tomorrow that it was 'once, but never again' as far as the Chamber is concerned. That should also be the government's approach. This does not need to be appreciated by Mrs Van Huffelen. This is about the rule of law and about protection. The point is, you don't hang out with people like this. We made a law here. We have held hundreds of thousands of debates, tabled motions and you name it. Actually, I was hoping. Surely the Minister can tell us what she thinks of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u350	I also said what I thought about it in the first term. In fact, I have gone a long way along with Mrs Leijten's reasoning, because I also think that it is the ultimate means and that everything should be aimed at not having to happen. But if a motion is tabled here that is in the area of two of my fellow Members, it is not only Van Huffelen, but also Mr Dekker, I think it is my responsibility to consult them. I can't do that till tomorrow. It just didn't work out tonight. Appreciation's coming up, and it's coming up for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u351	Appreciation of the motion in part No. 17 follows well before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u352	On the Sneller/Brome motion in part No. 18 on the disclosure of the agendas of directors, I am happy to give the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u353	Motion in part No. 18: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u354	The motion in part No. 19 is a motion to the Bureau. I'll skip it. The same applies to the motion in part No. 20. That's a speech-out. The motion in part No. 22 is about youth organisations. I'm actually very happy with the issue's agenda. It is a pity, indeed, that it has not been discussed in the debate, because I have spoken and done a great deal with young people, youth organisations and municipalities in recent times, in order to increase the democratic involvement of young people. There are pilots focused on young people's participation in political decision-making. I actually see the motion as an encouragement to continue with it, to ensure that young people can fully, equally participate, think along and work together in civil and political organisations. For that reason, I would like to pass judgment on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u355	Motion in part No. 22: Judgement Room. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u356	Thanks for the judgment room. I would like to add that I also mean the following. We often think of things in committees that young people then have to do, for example a youth parliament. But I would also like to know what the young people think. Do the young people think it is important that they can vote at a younger age or not? Or do they consider other ways of participation sufficient? I'm curious about that. I also refer to the argument I made in the first term about the voting age.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u357	I have debated the voting age with the Chamber before. There are different views as to whether or not this is a good instrument. Fine. That's a political discussion. But I've done a lot about the involvement of young people. I sent a report to the Chamber. It's called "Congenials in Democracy." We started, after a debate here in the Lower House, thinking about how to better involve young people in political decision-making. So I think we already know a lot. That's not something we came up with in the Ministry. That was conceived by the young people themselves. I would like to give the House's verdict to the motion, but then perhaps I could ask Mrs Bromet to take a look at it. I think we can really skip a few steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u358	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u359	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 23. That is a motion by Mr Ceder, along with Mr Omtzigt. I fully share the consideration of the motion. I like to join that tradition again. I will start the conversation with JenV's colleagues, but I intend to take steps in this regard. I'd like to pass judgment on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u360	Motion in part No. 23: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u361	The motion in part No. 24 is about the program Livability and Security. This is the integral approach at the heart of the approach. That's the essence of everything. That motion supports that, I think. That cooperation between the Empire and local is already there. What financial and legal rules are applied depends on each case and area. I can't completely generalize that. I read the motion as an incentive for this integrated approach. With that explanation, I'd like to pass judgment on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u362	Motion in part No. 24: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u363	The motion in part No. 25 is Mr Van Meijeren's motion. That is also a speech-expression, but allow me to say something about it. Mr Van Meijeren's statement that unvaccinated people are being discriminated against is incorrect. The policy pursued by the cabinet in this respect has been reviewed by the judge. On 6 October, the judge in The Hague ruled on the corona admission ticket. The judge simply said: this is allowed, this is in accordance with the law, there is a legal basis, it serves a legitimate purpose, there is no conflict with the prohibition of discrimination and there is no disproportionate infringement of other fundamental and human rights or GDPR. In other words, whatever I said in my first term, freedom is not absolute; the freedom of one person can also harm the other. Those are difficult considerations, but we make them very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u364	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u365	The motion in part No. 27 by Mr Eerdmans on natural gas-free areas. Because of the order, Mr President, I think I should ask Mr Eerdmans to hold the motion. He'll be back at the WHO Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u366	I look at Mr Eerdmans and I see him nodding. So he's holding the motion, and that's fancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u367	I would like to temper the expectations about what the judgment will be by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u368	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u369	Well, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u370	But you are judging in the debate, in the WHO?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u371	Oh, yeah. However, for reasons of order, the proposal has been retained and Mr Eerdmans is in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u372	Yeah, and that's what happened. The motion in part No. 27 is under arrest. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u373	If Mr Eerdmans is consistent, he will hold the motion in part No. 28 to the next debate. And then I'm gonna tell her off in the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u374	Mr. Eerdmans, I think holding on is the most fancy thing. You look difficult: let's suspend for half an hour! But I understand that you have the motion in part no. 28 wants to arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u375	The motion in part No. 29 see the Law on Political Parties. I fully agree with Mr Eerdmans, Mrs Van der Plas and others that local political parties should also be supported financially. We have already been able to take a step in this direction by subsidising and financing at least the Local Political Parties Knowledge Point. That was the first step after the opinion of the Veling Committee. The motion goes one step further, because it calls for an equivalent subsidy through the Law on Political Parties. That, of course, requires further consideration. It also has financial consequences and there is currently no cover for this. The new law on political parties has already been prepared to a great extent by the administration and it comes to the Chamber at some point. That is the time to talk about the method of subsidising political parties, but then there is the new cabinet. That is the moment when there are new resources for it. So I think it is a very relevant motion and I am also sympathetic to the objective. I've said that before. But I cannot now give a positive opinion on the motion. Mr. Eerdmans can arrest her until that law is dealt with. But otherwise I'm gonna have to tell her no matter how sympathetic I think she is right now, because I don't have any cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u376	I understand that dilemma. I welcome what you have to say about the text. I think it is a good thing that colleagues are expressing their views on this, because we must, of course, do something about it in this new law. I don't have cover for it either. There is no amount of money in it either, because it is the idea that there should be a way that local parties can also go along with it in the run-up to subsidies that are now reserved only for national parties. I feel that the Minister feels that this is also unbalanced. I think many colleagues will agree with that, and let's see if we can say so later. Then we look forward to the legislative text and then we see where the money, whether or not through an amendment, has to come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u377	So you're not holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u378	I'm not gonna hold her. I'll throw it in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u379	I understand that, but then the motion has been dissuaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u380	The motion in part No. Mr Bishop's 30th report deals with the resignation of the acting mayor. Mr Bishop knows my opinion on this. There is indeed a legal procedure, but Mr Bishop himself said that this is not really about that. But because there is a procedure going on, I think it would be wise for me to refrain from commenting on the substance of the matter. Depending on the outcome of the case, it will then be necessary to consider whether there is a need to amend the law. I do not really want to anticipate that, and for that reason I must advise against Mr Bishop's motion at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u381	The motion in part No. 30 has been dissuaded. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u382	I would ask you to add the name of Mr Strolenberg to the list of applicants. You will not be surprised that I really do not share the Minister's analysis on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u383	We're here together because we disagree and we're trying to be. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u384	That's right. The motion in part No. 32 is about the money for the National Coordinator. I know that Mr Van Baarle tabled the motion not very long ago. He held the motion at the time, but the intention wasn't to hold it for, say, a week or three. My plea was, "Let's get this National Coordinator started." He's just getting started, and he's building his desk now. He's working on the national program. So my suggestion was to keep her until, for example, we have the first work programme of the NCDR. We can also bring it back to the next budget debate. The motion will therefore be retabled very quickly. I can't judge right now if we need more money. Anyway, he's filing her again now, so I'm gonna have to dissuade her for that reason. If it takes time, I'd be bad for it, but I can't say yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u385	Hold on again, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u386	I said dissuade it because it's already the second time. Then I am not going to ask Mr Van Baarle to hold that motion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u387	Okay. Then the motion is in part No. 32 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u388	The motion in part No. 34 is about increasing criminal penalties through the Code of Criminal Law. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. I refer to Article 44 of the Code of Criminal Law, which provides that if an official violates a special duty by committing a criminal offence or makes use of power, opportunity or means conferred on him by his office, the penalty imposed on him, with the exception of a fine, shall be increased by one third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u389	The motion in part No. 34 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u390	Yes. The motion in part No. 35 on anti-discrimination expenditure. Indeed, it seems to me that an annual review has real added value. In my written reply, I suggested that the financial statement should be annexed annually to the National Coordinator's national programme. I'd be happy to pass judgment on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u391	The motion in part No. 35 is Judgment Room. Let me take a look at Mr Van Baarle. Do you still wish to respond to the motion in part No. 34? I looked hard, but I didn't want to scare you away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u392	No, Mr. Chairman, I understood that. I thought you were waiting for the Minister to finish advising on my other motion on that increase in the penalty for professional discrimination. The Minister is right to say that under Article 44 the sentence for officials can be increased. However, the motion is somewhat broader and applies to the whole article of professional discrimination. This also applies to companies, to professional discrimination in general. I would ask the Minister to look at this in the light of the fact that we have rightly increased the penalty for inciting hatred. He's two years old now. Then it is a little crooked, I would like to submit to the Minister that it is two years for you to initiate discrimination, but six months if you discriminate professionally. Incitement to discrimination is therefore two years, but the act is actually even worse than six months. I don't think that's very consistent. Perhaps the Minister could, in consultation with JenV, see if that ratio is proportional, because I think that is a stranger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u393	I must do so in consultation with JenV's colleagues. I cannot give a substantive response to that here from the loose wrist. I'll take note of that. I'll be happy to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u394	Then let me see what that means for the motion in part No. 34. It was dissuaded. Will you arrest her, Mr. Van Baarle? I get the impression that the Minister is going to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u395	Then let me arrest her, because I am not going to ask the Minister to respond to that before the vote after a discussion with JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u396	But you'll get an appreciation after that meeting with JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u397	Let us do it this way, because I have now heard Mr Van Baarle's explanatory statement. I'll take it with me, consult with the colleagues, and then we'll come back to it as a cabinet. The motion in part No. 35 I've already had, Judge Room. The motion in part No. 36 on the effectiveness of the prevention of discrimination. I am also looking at the NCDR for this, but I am happy to give the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u398	Motion in part No. 36 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u399	On the motion in part No. 38 I have already said something about the oath of office in my term. It is, as it says here, Article 1 of the Constitution, but if you only highlight this article, you are actually suggesting that other constitutional articles would be less relevant. I like the fact that you swear allegiance or promise to the Constitution in its entirety. That therefore includes Article 1 but does not exclude Article 1. That's why I have to discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u400	Motion in part No. 38: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u401	Then the motion to part No. 40, by Mrs Den Haan cum suis. Oh, yeah, those are the essential basics. Of course, I fully agree with Mrs Den Haan that it is very important that someone who is dependent on support and cannot organise it himself should be provided and that the municipality should help in doing so. That is what these legal frameworks are for, in the Wmo or in the Youth Act, depending on what is applicable. However, there has also been deliberately left room for local consideration and consideration, so that citizens can be supported as appropriately as possible. I want to leave that room anyway, and that's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u402	The motion in part No. 40 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u403	The motion in part No. Forty-two by Mrs Van der Plas is about the accres, the Hermans motion and the "stairs up, stairs down." Let me put it this way. For a number of years we have said: we freeze the stairs-on-strap-off, because it was just stairs-off. That was very bad for the municipalities, because they were always chasing the facts. This also indicates that the system can be inherently annoying for municipalities at the time it goes down. We have said that we are reinvigorating the mechanism in this budget, but at the same time we are looking at a better mechanism, which is also better suited to the way in which municipalities organise their budgets. So we applied the stairs again. As a result, a fair amount of extra money goes to the municipalities. That's very good, too. It was not applied only to the supplementary package agreed in the Chamber of General Political Reviews through the Hermans motion, except for the part where the municipalities are compensated for the increase in salaries in the care sector, i.e. for 80 million and for the rest not. That is a trade-off that the cabinet can make with Parliament. That's how it's made, and that's why I'm not recommending the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u404	The motion in part No. 42 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u405	Then the motion to part No. 43 on the Constitutional Court, by Mrs Simons. I have already explained to the Chamber that we are in the process of technical preparation of a constitutional path with regard to Article 120 Constitution. I also said at the time that it was not in the least reasonable, as in the motion for a resolution. It was asked to be sufficient to submit the deletion of Article 120 and to produce a constitutional review at a later date. That order doesn't work very well. It requires an integrated balance, because they are all points of principle, but they also have practical consequences. It is therefore reasonable for a subsequent cabinet to take this up in a single legislative process, or not, but if you do it, I would say, it is at once. This preparation is ongoing. That is why we have the opinion of the Parliamentary System Committee. We have a study from Maastricht University. They are both of course known to the Chamber. This means that we will make an overview of different possibilities for testing. This also raises the question of whether review should be carried out by all judges or by a Constitutional Court. This is also linked to the question of which parts of the Constitution can and should be reviewed. Mr. Chairman. A long story, just to say that if I may explain the motion in such a way that the Chamber asks me to share this statement with the Chamber when it is ready, I would like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u406	I see Mrs Simons nodding, so the motion in part No. 43 Judgment Room. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u407	The motion in part No. 44 is about ethnic profiling, briefly. Parliamentary questions have been asked. The Council of Europe has sent a letter. The Minister of JenV has promised a letter. The Human Rights College is in the process of creating a legal review framework. I don't know if the petitioner could wait for that. That would mean asking Mrs Simons to hold the motion until these elements are also available to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u408	That's what we're gonna hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u409	I thank the Minister. Yeah, I'd like to, but then I'd like to know what time it's about this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u410	I don't know. If anyone knows, they'll have to let me know now, and I'll give Mrs. Simons an answer in a minute. I honestly don't know how long that's gonna take. Some things we deal with ourselves, because that is the Minister of JenV. But, of course, I am not dealing with the Council of Europe and the College of Human Rights. So I can check, but I can't answer here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u411	I'd appreciate it if the Minister would check that out. Suppose that means it lasts another two and a half years, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u412	Let's see if we can get that answer in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u413	That might be possible, but we could also agree on the following. If Mrs Simons says that she would like to continue the motion, but that she would like to know how long it will all take, then we could also agree that I will send a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u414	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u415	That could be a short note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u416	Yeah, let's do it like this. Please hold the motion in part No. 44 to, Mrs Simons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u417	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u418	At the request of Mrs Simons, I propose her motion (35925-VII, No. 44). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u419	The motion in part No. 45 deals with the legal definition of anti-discrimination legislation. I think that's a really tricky one. The sub-grounds that have been mentioned fall under the ground "racism." By the way, there are more sub-grounds. I do not think it is appropriate for legislation to include these sub-grounds further in the legislation. Discrimination is not allowed. All discrimination is terrible. Too much discrimination in this area may prove to be inadequate on other grounds. So for that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u420	The motion in part No. 45 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u421	The motion in part No. 46 is a member of Van Haga and is about national monuments and isolation. Now, of course, I must be consistent and do the same thing I did to Mr Eerdmans. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Haga to hold this motion until we discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u422	But Mr. Van Haga isn't in the room, so you're gonna have to pass judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u423	He's not here. It's a research motion. We are asked to examine the extent to which a national directive can be drawn up. Well, since it's an investigative motion, I'm gonna try to execute her, and I'm gonna leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u424	The motion in part No. 46 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u425	The motion in part No. 47 cannot therefore be detained until a later date. I therefore advise against this motion, because we are not going to pursue a very different policy on social housing than we have now. I am not in favour of what is proposed in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u426	The motion in part No. 47 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u427	Finally, I have an amendment, namely an amendment by Mrs Leijten on the increase of the Community fund by 1 billion. I have already said that I am very aware that the financial position of municipalities is precarious. That is why I am pleased that we have removed these scaling-up discounts, including for 2022. Next year, they will have a relatively large windfall of 1.5 billion. As a result of the agreements we have made on youth care, the municipalities also receive 1.6 billion extra for youth care. I think that is enough air for this budget. It is true that more needs to be done. That is why I hope that good agreements will be reached at the formation. However, I must advise against the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u428	The amendment in part No. 10 has been dissuaded. I also have in my administration the amendment to item No. 11 up. That's Mr. Van Kent's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u429	Perhaps the Secretary of State has taken the amendment to item No. 11? Otherwise, I'm gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u430	It concerns 500 million in the Community Fund for Combating Poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u431	I'm sure I'll get that amendment soon. If Mr Knops can now give his appreciation, then I will go into that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u432	Excellent. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was another enlightening question from Mrs Rajkowski in response to the written reply. She asked what is meant by paying attention to legislative letters in improving legislative quality instruments. I admit this sentence could have been a little clearer. So let me now try to put it more clearly. The Netherlands Bank, the AFM and the SVB report each year to the directors concerned on any problems they may encounter in law and regulation. They do so in the so-called legislative letters. Those are the letters. These signals greatly improve the quality of policies and legislation. It is therefore an opportunity that we would like to make further use of in the future, just as we are already working with an integrated balancing framework, improving the implementation test and introducing the introduction test. It's a lot of tests, but that's the explanation that goes with that sentence. I hope it's clearer now. Then motion to part No. 16 by Mrs Rajkowski and many others on the Tiber-NL tests. We already do Red Team exercises in the government. It is very good to test the quality of the safety of the systems. In the I-strategy Rijk, I indicated that parts of a red-teaming program such as the Tiber programme could provide interesting insights into vulnerabilities. That's something that helps us all. I am going to inform the Chamber further about this in the spring, but I can leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u434	The motion in part No. 16: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u435	Then the motion to part No. 21 by Mrs Bromet and Mrs Van der Plas. A special and beautiful combination! A sympathetic motion, I must say. I also think she's executable. We're already doing better than average in purchasing, but we can always do better. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u436	The motion in part No. 21 gets judgment room. Mrs van der Plas, do you still wish to oppose this? No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u437	No, I certainly don't want to stand up to that. It can't be, because it's not in the motion, but I just want to add that if we're talking about fish, for example, we have to make sure that we have freshly caught fish. Because if we buy organic fish, it comes from farms. I'm not going to go over it too long, but the fish that swims in the sea is the best fish. I don't want to add it to the motion, but I'd like to add it here. If we're gonna do that, we're gonna have to take care of that. Organic fish is, by definition, grown because they need organic food. You don't have organic food in the sea, because organic food must be certified and the North Sea doesn't know Skal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u438	I see water-toothing colleagues here and there, but okay. I don't know if the Secretary of State wants to respond to this. Does this change the verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u439	Well, it evokes all kinds of feelings to me. I'm starting to get a little hungry, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u440	For the sake of certainty, I note that the motion in part No. 21 still has judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u441	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 26 by Mr Dassen and others. I have already said in the debate that I understand the request in itself, but I would like to await the examination and evaluation of the use of the register, as well as the final decision on the AI regulation. I am sending a letter in January, so I would actually like to request that this motion be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u442	I'm looking at Mr. Dassen. I understand you're still thinking about it. You have until Tuesday. If not, the motion is dissuaded, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u443	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u444	The motion in part No. 26 has been dissuaded for the time being. Please continue with the motion in part No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u445	The motion in part No. 31 by Mr Bishop and Mr Ceder. I can leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u446	The motion in part No. 31: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u447	The motion in part No. 33 by Mr Van Baarle, among others. In itself, what is stated in this motion is a sympathetic suggestion, but strengthening the function generally leads to additional costs and financial claims, so that motion is not covered. I can promise Mr Van Baarle that I will talk to the existing supervisors to see how things could be improved, but I must advise against this motion because of the lack of financial coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u448	The motion in part No. 33 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u449	Then the motion to part No. 37, also by Mr Van Baarle and others. I wholeheartedly support that discriminatory behaviour can be reported, but the existing network of hotlines can provide excellent coverage. I would, however, like to send a letter to the Chamber which will give you an insight into how that existing network works and what the results are. But I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u450	The motion in part No. 37 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u451	Then the motion to part No. 39. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u452	The motion in part No. 39: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u453	The motion in part No. 41 is also judged by the Chamber, stating that we are already doing a lot of these things at the moment and that I think it is not only a sympathetic idea, but that there are already initiatives in which young people are helping the elderly. I've been involved myself; great fun. I think we can do more than that. So I also see it as "support of." Then there's one more amendment. I don't have the number right now, but it's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u454	That's the Bergkamp c.s. amendment. (35925-VII, No. 12).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u455	Yes. That amendment is about putting the eighth floor of this building into service by the House of Representatives. I understand the wishes of the Chamber and agree with the background to this amendment. We're gonna need extra capacity. On the other hand, it is also my responsibility to state that the amendment is covered by general funds. That is normally a reason to discourage an amendment. Anyway, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u456	The amendment in part No. 12 has Judgment Room. Thank you very much. We'll wait until the speaker's ready. Then the Minister comes back for the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u457	That's right, Mr. Chairman. In the process, something did not go well, so I did not quite have that amendment in my sights. In the meantime, I've got it again. I am not going to repeat what I just said about Mrs Leijten's other amendment to the SP. This amendment, by Van Kent, also has no cover. The issue is that when it comes to how to deal with the Municipal Fund, we want to leave the rest to the next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u458	So the amendment in part No. 11 has been dissuaded, so I note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u459	Yeah, it's not recommended. I would like to thank everyone here, but above all the support. It has really gotten late, so I thank the support here in this Chamber and the official support from BZK, who has also worked hard to make all this possible. Because it is almost morning and the newspaper is almost in the mailbox, I had to think of Wim Kan, who said: "Democracy is the will of the people. Every morning I read in the newspaper what I want now." We're all gonna do that later, Mr. Chairman. Finally, may I also thank you for your presidency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u460	Yes, you may. I am going to close the sitting, but I would like to begin by thanking the directors and their officials and, of course, their support. I thank the Members and their support. Of course, I would like to thank our unfaithful support for the Chamber in all its forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-11.u461	I think it was a very pleasant debate. With regard to the end of the debate, I would like to say to you: please love each other and don't look too much on Twitter. That's not a killer, but I really hope we can solve that too. I wish you well. I wish you all a good night. But also about when the sun rises exactly. Mr. Bosma thought he'd run out. Well, he doesn't come up till 8:32. That's not so bad. I wish you all a good night at home.
