ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 16 and 17 December 2021. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister, as well as the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66. I would like to agree with Members that they can ask each other four questions or make comments in the first term, and also four questions for the govern ment. That's the way it can be, the other way around. If they are short and powerful, we can have a nice debate with each other. I call Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. It would also be refreshing if the rulers were to ask us a few questions, but our system probably does not yet carry that. Mr. Chairman. The European Union is changing, if you look at Germany, where a new, progressive, pro-European era is being opened and when you look at Macron, who won his election campaign last time with a strong pro-European message and who will undoubtedly do the same this time, given his presidency. He also has great ambitions with the European Union and with France in it. Look also at the pro-European Draghi, which actually puts Italy back at the table at the Franco-German axis. We also saw the invitation from the United States to Italy when it was about Ukraine and Russia. So the sound is different. I must say that in this Chamber we hear that other noise, a real European sound, on a regular basis. I have also caught this minister sometimes that he is taking something, but I will not embarrass him when it comes to the transformation of the Battle Groups is a strong supporter of stronger European hard power. I think that is good, because it is really time for the Netherlands to join the leading group in Europe. That urgency is underlined once again when you look at what is happening around Ukraine. We have discussed this with this Minister at the Foreign Affairs Council. Mr Brekelmans has just tabled a motion to ensure that there is a preventive package of measures to make it clear to Putin that the cost of a possible invasion of Ukraine is so high that it would be a ruin of him and his cabal. That motion was embraced by this cabinet and has just reached the majority in the Chamber. I hope that it can be used to support the efforts of this minister. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, also about the instruments that we have at our disposal to act in the event of such crises. I would ask the Minister, in this case, to reflect on the importance of majority decision-making in foreign policy in this situation. Of course, it's also about transforming the Battlegroup, which I just talked about, into rapid reaction forces. Mr. Chairman. My next piece will be that I want to ask more specifically how we deal with energy and gas, for example. It is, of course, very uncomfortable that we are increasingly dependent on Russian gas on the one hand, while Russia, under Putin, on the other hand comes to such measures. The United States and the European Union are considering consequences that will seriously harm the Russian economy. In that context, my question is what the Netherlands wants in this situation with Nord Stream 2. Is that something on the table when Russia adopts far-reaching measures against Ukraine or not? I also ask this because I think that our own gas position, the Dutch gas position, could be strengthened if that became a more European position, so if the purchasing would not take place more nationally but together. Because then you can enforce better gas prices than when you do it on your own and then you can act together when Russia turns off the tap. In this way, for example, you can organise your own gas reserves, your European gas reserves. The European Union can then protect the Dutch people from a foreign superpower and b also unfair gas prices. I would ask the Minister to actively consider the possibility of joint gas procurement. Mr. Chairman. The third instrument in addition to majority decision-making and gas procurement are economic sanctions. We see that the Commission has made a clear proposal. If economic sanctions are applied against an individual Member State or against the European Union as a whole, we must be able to act against them: a new sanction mechanism, in fact, with which the Commission will be able to impose economic sanctions. This means that it does not take two months for the European Union to apply those sanctions when one of the Member States is threatened. This is a serious step to ensure that the European Union becomes a global player rather than the world's playing field. How does the Minister assess this proposal? What's he up to on this? How will he support this proposal on behalf of the Netherlands? I would strongly encourage that. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to corona. During the corona pandemic, we saw what happens if you do not cooperate in the European Union: closed internal borders, major consequences for families and for entrepreneurs, a patchwork of rules that were absolutely impossible for the individual citizen or the individual company. Now there is actually a risk of a repeat of this. It has now been agreed that the digital corona certificate is valid for nine months, while our booster shot campaign is not yet in order. I ask this Minister: what does that mean for Dutch people who want to go abroad on Christmas, for example, to visit their families, elsewhere in Europe? And what does it mean for the 400,000 Dutch who have received a Janssen vaccine? Will this Minister speak in the Council against Member States which no longer approve vaccinations approved by EEA on their own initiative? Madam President. Being fully vaccinated does not mean the same in the European Union anymore, and that puts fundamental freedoms at risk in the European Union. I would like to stress once again, of course, the importance of vaccination, which is the way out of this crisis, as well as the need for European coordination. We also hear from the Prime Minister how important this European coordination is. But when it was proposed last week to include an additional EU summit on the omikron variant, that proposal was blocked. I understand that the Netherlands played a role in stopping that summit. I would like to ask the Minister what were the reasons for stopping that summit. I'm very surprised about that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Conference on the Future of Europe. An interim report has been drawn up on this subject. However, I am curious about a reflection of the Minister at the conference so far. Together with colleagues Amhaouch and Kamminga, I am the rapporteur on this issue on behalf of the Chamber. Although I was very much in favour of this conference, I have to say that I have been somewhat disappointed with the outcome of this conference so far. I mean the way in which citizens are involved, but perhaps also the way in which the Dutch cabinet is now trying to involve Dutch people. I would also like to ask the Minister to reflect on how we are going to put these meetings better on the map in the Netherlands. How are we going to shape this involvement? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to an idea that lives at that conference: the idea of transnational electoral lists and spitzen candidates for the European elections. They are mentioned in that report. If we want to make that European Parliament, and with it the Commission, more democratic, that is a good idea. Let the Dutch vote for a Spaniard, a Dutchman or Belgian if they feel better represented with it. It enhances the legitimacy of the European Parliament. I ask the Minister whether he agrees with D66 that it is time to take a very close look at the benefits of these transnational lists and whether we should support them. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the situation in Poland and Hungary, which this Chamber has very often considered. First of all, perhaps the situation in Poland, where women no longer have access to safe abortion. On this subject, this Chamber adopted a D66 motion by a large majority in order to increase that access to abortion through the Human Rights Fund. The Minister embraced it. I would like to ask him how this motion is now being implemented. The second point concerns the legal conditions for the payment of European subsidies. There is now a ruling from the Court on this matter. My hope, my expectation, my urgent wish, and I also think that the Court's ruling will be followed, in other words, that we are finally going to use the rule of law mechanism. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to work in Brussels to ensure that this rule of law mechanism is deployed as soon as possible by the Commission and not to allow any further delay in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u5	There is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u6	I have another question about the Strategic Compass, which is a euphemism for the European army. That plan is now in progress. There is a draft confidential version available to Members of Parliament. That means we can read it, but we can't talk about it. I think that's bizarre and I was wondering if Mr. Sjoerdsma would agree with me that we should just make that play public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u7	If only that piece would immediately lead to a European army. My group would be very much in favour of that. But that the piece contains concrete steps towards a European Union that is increasingly capable of protecting its own territory, independent of others, a European Union that is increasingly capable of filling in the European component of NATO or resolving crises at the border of the European Union, which my group strongly encourages. Then about the confidential nature of this piece. With Mr Van Dijk, I always dislike confidentiality and intransigence where that is not necessary. I can also tell Mr Van Dijk that it is not necessary here, because the piece can be found online. I do not therefore feel prevented, obstructed or restricted in any way to speak about it openly in this Chamber. The piece is just printable from the Internet, so this confidentiality... if Mr. Van Dijk is a little handy with Google, and I know he is, he's gonna find that piece and I'm sure he won't feel that obstacle I'm not feeling anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u8	I don't make statements about my dealings with Google. We know that D66 is a strong supporter of a European army, preferably lifting the Netherlands today and transferring all powers to Brussels. That is the content of the debate, but of course it is the procedure that is at stake here. It may be that the play can be found somewhere on the Internet, but that's not the point. This is the procedure, the way in which Brussels, Europe, wants this debate to take place, namely not. The final version will be available in March. Then we can sign off on the cross, but now we are not supposed to have the debate on this. Do you share the view that this piece should simply be made public in a proper manner, Mr. Sjoerdsma? That suits your party, doesn't it? Or isn't that new leadership just old leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u9	The only parties that want to abolish the Netherlands are on the right side of this Parliament. We shouldn't accuse D66 of that. Those are parties that distance themselves from Dutch values and the Dutch Constitution. My party is indeed in favour of very far-reaching European cooperation in the field of defence, climate and migration. The fact that the SP chooses not only to cut down heavily on our army, our armed forces, but also to drain NATO and to see no alternative in the European Union is to throw the Netherlands out of business. This means that the Netherlands is at the mercy of others to resist threats, at a time when not only Russia is increasingly aggressive, but China is also increasingly dynamically offensive in the rest of the world. I think that is very, very unwise, I say to Mr Van Dijk. Secondly, on the subject of public access. As far as I'm concerned, we're discussing this in this Chamber. I am sure of that as far as this Minister is concerned. I hope he nods yes to confirm that, that it's not an assumption on my part. Of course we'll talk about that. That piece is just online, like I just said. Print it out, put it down here. No one's gonna stop you. Confidential or not, it's just available on the Internet, so let's talk about it that way. I agree wholeheartedly with Mr Van Dijk, even though we differ on fundamental principles and their elaboration, that we should be able to discuss them with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not like to repeat the same things endlessly, but I am very sorry that the motion by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van der Laan and myself did not reach a majority in the votes just now, just on the day when the Uighur court declares that there is genocide, systematic torture, rape, sterilization, really not a good signal. There's a difference of opinion on that. I expect the European Union to draw a single line and that there is only one line to draw, and that is that no European delegation of government from any Member State should travel to Beijing. I also expect the Minister to make a very strong commitment to this. Otherwise we will try again to get the Chamber to make that statement, but not today, because that would be too much of a repetition. The agenda of the European Summit also states that there may also be talk of European taxonomy. That is strange in itself, because that is already a long-standing European debate that has already gone a long way and is not a topic that should be discussed by the General Council at all in accordance with the rules. At the same time, we all know that there is a lot of tension on this and that there is a hard negotiating game going on to put things that are really not renewable and that can never be reclaimed whether it is gas or nuclear power or that someone is using the non-renewable uranium................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I say part of the green taxonomy, because taxonomy is not only about what we agree and qualify as green when it comes to climate adaptation and mitigation, but also about the waste issue, about the need for recycling. There, too, both natural gas and nuclear energy are failing. I call on the Minister and the Prime Minister, who, in my opinion, is going to the summit himself, to make a very hard call for a Chamber speech that has been made here that natural gas should not belong to it. Unfortunately, the Chamber in its... Well, I would almost use a word that would not be parliamentary... Unfortunately, the Chamber has made a mistake in wanting to register nuclear energy as part of the greenest category we know. That really is a mistake for several reasons. It is not only a mistake of thinking, but it undermines the negotiating position on natural gas in the European Union at a very bad time. I therefore call on the government to prevent both energy sources that are not renewable from being brought under that green taxonomy and do everything in their power to do so. I would point out that this is intended to make clear to consumers what is really green, at the request of promises made by the financial sector to contribute to climate change. The financial sector, including banks and insurers, indicated yesterday in Het Financieele Dagblad itself: do not do it, do not include natural gas and nuclear energy, because that means greenwashing. The pension funds, too, now join us and say 'let the experts look at it again', because they do not believe in it themselves. This political form of greenwashing undermines the necessary transition. It is not that these technologies are banned. They can still be applied, although I am not always enthusiastic about it, but they do not get the specific benefits that we should give to the really green, renewable energy sources, including from the point of view of energy diversification. In reducing dependence on others, it is important that we promote the truly green technologies of the future. That is the point I wanted to make, but I see that Mrs Kamminga would like to ask about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u12	That's right. I call Mrs Kamminga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr Van der Lee and I know that our parties are different in this discussion. At the same time, I noticed in his speech that I, of course, know one thing, and that is that Mr Van der Lee is calling on the cabinet not to carry out a majority vote. I would like to double-check whether I understood that correctly, because I have some surprises about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u14	I note that the Chamber has made a mistake. The Dutch Government must take a position in a negotiating game. We also know it's two-and-a-half. Either it's gonna be either or it's not gonna be either. I think that the Netherlands should not go for either. If that means that this motion is not being carried out, I can carry it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u15	I would like to confirm, perhaps by this route, that this motion was certainly not a mistake in relation to the VVD and that we still support it in its entirety. I would therefore like to distance myself from the fact that this is a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u16	If the VVD had actually delivered to nuclear energy, you could have applied for a licence for more than eleven years, and if she had wanted this to happen in the Netherlands, she would have had to deliver butter to the fish. For eleven years the VVD has been delivering the Prime Minister and has the power in the Netherlands. To try to put nuclear energy in a category where it does not belong in taxonomy is really irresponsible. Then I have one more question for the Minister. If it is necessary to support a compromise to introduce an intermediate category, that would also be a passable way for me to prevent natural gas or nuclear energy from entering the greenest category.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u18	I had a question for Mr Van der Lee. Last week, Nieuwsuur reported on one of the renewable energy sources, solar panels, which is a ticking environmental time bomb and with 250,000 solar panels going through the shredder until 2030. Solar panels should actually be €5 to €10 more expensive in order to recycle them properly. What is the response of GroenLinks? Because that is not so environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u19	This is not news at all; this has been a discussion for years. The sector has committed itself to maximum promotion of the recycling of solar panels. The new types are also getting better, in the sense that you can easily recycle them. This also applies to wind turbines. Even the blades of the latest wind turbines are now also made of recyclable material. Yeah, it's a renewable energy source. The wind always blows, at least when it blows, but it will blow forever. The same goes for the sun. It is also a reality that you have to replace panels and wind turbines every so many times. As far as we are concerned, this must be done in such a way that you can recycle them as much as possible. Steps are also being taken in this regard. But the environmental gains and the climate gains are much greater by using them than by not using them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u20	I don't think so. But does Mr Van der Lee think it is acceptable that people should be pushed more or less in the right direction, even if there is no solar panel obligation? And does Mr Van der Lee think it is acceptable that people will have to pay the top price for purchasing solar panels because they can then be recycled better? I don't think that's the GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u21	That's not true, either. We have a fantastic netting arrangement. People see that the money they have in their bank accounts doesn't pay off, because the interest rate is virtually nil. But because of this netting arrangement, it is very attractive to purchase solar panels. I even regularly encounter PVV-choosers who see that for their own wallet: "Very good, those solar panels, because I deserve on them. It takes a few years, but then I'll have a lot more left than it costs me." So that's going great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u22	I find it interesting that Mr Van der Lee says: I even come across PVV voters who do so. How does that work? Then you run into someone and you ask: which party do you vote for? I think it's a rather wondrous remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u23	No, I have a social life like you, and in that social life, I run into people of all political colors. Also on birthdays and parties, although they are less frequent nowadays because of corona, these kinds of things are discussed. Yes, and then I also hear from people from PVV-circle: "it's interesting, because it's printing my energy bill." That is how it works in the Netherlands and that is why we have developed this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u25	I have one other point. This is not entirely in line with the agenda, but it is a call for it to be on the agenda soon, perhaps not directly at the European summit, but at the Foreign Affairs Council. It's about development in Myanmar. Aung San Suu Kyi has been convicted. The sentence has been reduced a little bit, but she's been convicted. The UN Special Representative has called for a Summit, also to coordinate sanctions efforts. That Summit didn't come. I have repeatedly urged the Minister of BuHa-OS and the minister's minister to step up their efforts in the field of sanctions in the oil and gas sector towards Myanmar, but nothing is happening. I believe that we should also address this at European level, and I call on the Minister to do so. We can't ignore this. Strong measures are needed. I hope the Minister will be able to answer that in the affirmative. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Then I give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u27	One more sentence. I apologize, because I have a debate to attend from the Finance Committee. I have already told the Minister, but you know this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you. Nice of you to mention that. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u29	Mr. Chairman. It has already come across in an interrupting debate: I think this is a very wonderful debate. We are talking today about the Strategic Compass, which is announced in all sorts of newspaper articles with a lot of bombs, but is only sent to us in confidence. Technically, I can read it, but I can't talk about it. Of course, a decent parliamentarians can't do anything with that. We must control the government, we must control Brussels, and that is not the way to do it. I simply believe that these documents should be made public and that we should not be faced with a final version in March. This is what happens more often in Brussels: this is it and you can have another debate about it in the form you want; there are really no changes, because 27 Member States have come together and we cannot open up the debate anymore. That is a well-known saying among people who work in Brussels: you are too early, too early, too early and then you are too late. It happens all too often. I also refer to the Leijten/Omtzigt motion of 30 September 2020. This kind of thing just needs to be made public. That motion has been passed, so: Minister, come on, this just can't be; just be a guy and leave it open on the table when you're in front. The call "seek it up through Google" I find a bit cowardly way to conduct the debate. I want to see a warrior government: stand in front of it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u30	There is an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u31	Mr Van Dijk is quite right, of course. Googling is a lot of work. That's why I just apprehended the play at him. Then he can take it. If he wants to, I'm also willing to ask my associate Mike Hemmen to print it out. Maybe that'll make it easier. Then we can just have that debate. There's just stuff we can talk about here today. Just beyond the confidentiality: what things do Mr Van Dijk disagree with? What does he want changed? Then we'll just talk to this minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u32	I really find it very illogical how Mr Sjoerdsma, like some kind of cabinet errand boy, is going to sit down. Of course, you don't have a debate like that. Of course, it's really about society. He has the right to have a full debate on this. If the Court is urged to treat documents confidentially and the message is clear that a document is not intended for a public debate, that is the message that Brussels is sending.... I do not think that is possible. I would like to give an opinion on the content. That is what I have actually done in my interrupting Mr Sjoerdsma's speech. Maybe he forgot. We are not in favour of a European army. Nor are we in favour of the steps taken to this end. EUR 20 billion is now going to European defence. In many Member States, you see the need to say: if the Americans go their own way, then we want to be able to act more defensively and perhaps also offensively from Europe. I think that is an extremely worrying development. I showed the Minister our report Atlas of power. Then you can see that it is particularly the arms industry that benefits from this. You shouldn't do that. Let us first learn lessons from the wars that have been waged, I say to the Minister. There have been billions spent on this, but the success is not very clear. I call the war in Afghanistan, the war in Iraq. So no, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u33	Of course, it is not really a debate Mr Van Dijk wants either. If you smash what is in the piece into a European army, then you no longer have to have the debate. It does not say that, and Mr Van Dijk knows that, because I hope he has read it. It says a lot about how to jointly analyse our security environment. I wonder if Mr Van Dijk is against this. It says that we need to take a closer look at how Europe's capabilities match, so that we may not have to spend so much money on defence. That is what the SP is for, by the way, less money for defence; that is very painful. What does it say? How we can make it more efficient. I can't imagine the SP being against it. It's about us practicing together. Why is the SP against that? It also says that we might be able to buy together. Why is the SP against that? It also states that if there are crises, perhaps the European Union should be able to take action. Mr Van Dijk, if he wants to have this debate, please do so on the content and not just on that label, that big frame. What proposals from the Strategic Compass can the SP support and which does not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u34	First of all, I note that D66, the party of transparency and openness, does not support my plea for a transparent debate here, in which the government submits a piece and does not want to conduct the debate via an app via an ex-post route. Google it, that's Mr. Sjoerdsma's message. I find that old and worn-out leadership. That gives me little optimism for a new coalition, which may be coming. This isn't going well, I'll tell the chairman. And then I'll go into the content. Mr Sjoerdsma made it very small in his interruption: well, it might be a bit of cooperation on defence. No, Mr. Sjoerdsma, it's not. It is a creeping integration of the European armed forces. The intention is to start with a rapid reaction unit of 5,000 men. They want to be able to decide on this from Brussels. So that takes away, step by step, the decision-making power of the national parliaments. D66 would like that. He wants the Netherlands to become a province of Europe. The SP doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u35	There's been an interruption by Mrs Maeijer from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u36	I share the inconvenience we have here regarding the confidentiality of the document. In addition, there is a lack of extensive appreciation of the cabinet. The draft conclusions of the European Council are also confidential, so we cannot talk about what might come out. That makes it a very strange debate. I absolutely share that. I also share the criticism of the SP on the piece. Only, which surprises me, is that last week, I believe, the SP voted against my colleague De Roon's motion to oppose that Strategic Compass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u37	Then Mrs. Maeijer should give me a hand, because I really liked her introduction. I am also very pleased that she agrees with me and that she stands for transparency. I do not know of Mr De Roon's motion. But I think that we have just supported Mr De Roon's Strategic Compass motion, if I am right. But Mrs Maeijer should show us what motion she means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u38	It is a motion submitted to the Foreign Affairs budget. It reads as follows: 'Whereas we should not give up our foreign and security policy; calls on the government to oppose the EU Strategic Compass'. The result of the vote I have before me says that the SP voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u39	We really need to look at that very carefully, because I remember very well that I gave a positive opinion on this motion and that my group did not want to discuss it. So it's good that Mrs. Maeijer says that. I see that Mr Sjoerdsma has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u40	No, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u41	He's afraid to put that in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u42	Just carry on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u43	That's not gonna work out with that party. Mr. Chairman. Although talks are taking place between Russia and the United States, tensions are mounting in Ukraine. The mobilisation of Russian troops at the border is worrying. On the other hand, the West must not throw oil on the fire by flapping NATO membership. Arms deliveries to Ukraine are also undesirable. A military confrontation would be a total disaster. We have to do everything we can to prevent that. What is the Minister doing to reduce tensions? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the chaos in Belarus and the additional drama at the Polish border where thousands of people live. Through emergency legislation, the European Commission wants to give Poland more opportunities to put migrants into detention. In fact, the right to asylum is being sidetracked. Those are pretty heavy decisions. How's the minister looking at this? Is he willing to protest? Mr. Chairman. The European Union can do much more when it comes to corona. The EU is even seen as the biggest hurdle when it comes to patent sharing. The United States does not want the European Union to go beyond it. India and South Africa have also shown decisiveness with the initiative for a TRIPS Waiver with which patents are widely distributed. But it seems that the EU prefers to protect the pharmaceutical industry. The bigfarma companies Pfizer, Moderna, and BioNTech make 1,000 dollars a second profit with products that were publicly funded by 8 billion dollars in support. When will European leaders recognise that non-sharing of patents is the biggest blockage to the fair distribution of vaccines worldwide? At what levels has the cabinet taken the trouble to put the sharing of patents on the agenda? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to refer to a piece in de Volkskrant this morning. That was about Qatar. As the Minister knows, I like to speak on that subject. It's an amazing piece. You can see that 38 Dutch companies and the government are actively working to get things done in Qatar. There is even a Task Force Qatar World Championships 2022. I would like a response from this minister to that revealing document, because it is well known that human rights are being seriously violated. There have been many deaths in the construction projects there. I read in the newspaper that the Netherlands is really actively looking for trade deals and more cooperation. The Chamber has adopted a motion not to send an official delegation to the World Cup in Qatar. I am still counting on the Minister to carry out that motion properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u44	There is an interruption by Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u45	It's about that last point. I understand the complexity and the problems with Qatar, China or other countries. But I would like to know what the measuring bar is for the SP for when you do trade with a particular country, send a delegation to a particular country or have planes sent to a country. What's that bar? In the world we will then withdraw and say: with every country that does not comply 100% with human rights, environmental rights and all kinds of other things, we will not do anything, and we will withdraw from it. What's that bar? Then we know that and we don't have to come back to it every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u46	Last week we had an interesting debate on corporate social responsibility. That is what standards have been drawn up for. In my view, the CDA does not want to do business with companies involving child labour or forced labour. Well, in Qatar, workers' rights are seriously and widely violated. Over 6,000 people were killed there. So I insist that the government does that. I do not want to see the painful image of our king, minister or prime minister drinking beer with authorities from that country. You know the examples of our king in the past with a glass of beer with President Putin. We don't want that anymore. Or does the CDA want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u47	What everyone drinks, it's up to him. Today you also have 0.0% beer. So that doesn't make much difference in principle. Most of all, I'm concerned that we're working on it. I agree. All kinds of things like imvo have to be done. But to say here as the Netherlands, which is a small country with a large foreign country, every time that we do not have to do this or that... You hear that a lot. We shouldn't do anything, we shouldn't send anyone, or we shouldn't let our companies do their job. I agree that we need to work on it and look for improvement. But I'm afraid of what world we end up in when we use big words here every time about retreating everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u48	That is an extraordinary neo-liberal argument from the CDA. I'm disappointed. Mr Amhaouch is turning it around a bit. This concerns major sporting events, namely the Winter Games in China and the World Football Championship in Qatar. The question is: do you have to legitimize those extremely dubious regimes in Qatar and China, in fact, by drinking beer with dignitaries there in a skybox? Whether it's alcohol-free or not, it doesn't matter. I think that is a bad idea and the majority of the House agrees with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The year 2021 has brought the European Union back to its foundations on a regular basis. The rule of law in Poland and Hungary, Afghanistan, rising energy prices and now inflation; all challenges that only cross-border can really be tackled. I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on what developments we as the European Union have been going through this year and what we have learned from it. Mr. Chairman. I did not mention one of the challenges, and that is the situation at the border with Belarus. People entitled to asylum shall be returned to the border or held in detention for too long. The emergency measures announced by the European Commission undermine the right to asylum. It seems more and more that we accept walls and barbed wire instead of working on legal migration routes and fast procedures. That's what we're sitting on a sliding scale. Because if we torment our values, we will give Lukashenko an instrument to make the EU as a value community unbelievable. This will not only use Belarus, but also other illiberal states can use this against us. I am therefore pleased that my colleague Mr Koekkoek's motion has been adopted to check the measures against the legal basis, the Geneva Convention and the asylum acquis, but it is not enough. We must also continue to speak politically against measures that undermine European values. France and Germany have now indicated that they are sceptical about these emergency measures. I ask the Minister: is the Netherlands prepared to join them? If the Netherlands does not yet have a position, as the Secretary of State indicated yesterday, can the Minister forward the Dutch commitment to the JHA Council on this subject to the Chamber before the start of the European Summit? Mr. Chairman. Developments at the borders of Ukraine and Russia are moving rapidly. Once again, we seem to be dependent on the United States in further developments. I welcome Mr Brekelmans' motion which was adopted today. The Russian people are also opposed to Putin's intervention, but at the moment the European Union seems to be preparing a military exercise in Ukraine. I wonder: how does the Netherlands feel about this? Can this be seen as a provocation and do we not give Putin a proper reason for doing so? Mr. Chairman. I would like to touch on a few points, first of all the European Union and African Union summits. Earlier, a Volt motion was adopted to strive for an equivalent partnership. The Chamber calls on the Cabinet to take a leading role in investing in, for example, education, research and innovation, especially with regard to young people. How does the Minister intend to implement this? Will he address this at the next summit? In the run-up to the African Union summit, will he dare to ask African countries what they need, such as, for example, abolishing trade tariffs or at least looking at them or combating tax avoidance, in order to achieve a truly equivalent partnership? Mr. Chairman. More and more parties and leaders see that the only way to meet the major challenges is to work together across borders. Look at President Macron, who focuses in his plans for the French Presidency on strategic autonomy, the Carbon Adjustment Mechanism, the Chips Act and the Digital Markets Act. Or look at Germany, where the coalition even speaks of developments towards a federal union. Or look at the European Parliament, which is pushing for a higher minimum wage and thus defending the interests of all Europeans. So there's a lot on the table. I would therefore ask the Minister: what is the Netherlands doing in the next six months? Can the Minister explain his expectations of the impact of these developments on the Council's field of action? And is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber at a much earlier stage about the commitment of the Netherlands? After all, we are facing major challenges again in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u51	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kamminga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In two weeks' time it will be Christmas again and that will also mean the end of the year, a very eventful year, which, unlike all of us had hoped, is still largely dominated by the coronapandemic and its effects. Other challenges, such as climate, migration, our security and monitoring of the rule of law, have also called for and will continue to draw attention over the past year. Mr. Chairman. Many of the issues before us have already been discussed in committee this week. I would like to avoid repeating all this and will therefore confine myself to a number of key points. One issue I cannot ignore is COOVID-19 and the coordination of measures on intra-EU and intra-EU travel. The VVD agrees with the cabinet that it is important to coordinate travel measures to combat the virus at EU level. This not only combats the spread of the virus more effectively, but also gives clarity to anyone who wants to travel and prevents a patchwork of different rules. However, the VVD considers it very important that the Lower House is carefully taken into account in the decision-making process and the determination of the Dutch commitment. In this context, I must say that I do not think that the way in which the Chamber is involved should be repeated, particularly as regards the decision to reduce the period of validity from 12 months to 9 months. On what basis have we reached those nine months? It also requires quite a bit of the booster campaign. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how the cabinet is going to ensure that everyone gets their booster in time. So what's this gonna mean for people who can't get them on time? How are we going to deal with Mr Sjoerdsma's question there, too, with people who have had the Janssen vaccine? Will that nine-month period also apply to them? The VVD believes it is very important that we get clear quickly, so that people know where they stand. How is the cabinet going to ensure clear communication to people in this country? How will the period of validity be handled in the run-up to 1 February? I understand that these deadlines do not apply until 1 February. I also read that, in line with the RIVM opinion, it is intended to promote the introduction of a mandatory test for all travellers, as long as this is necessary. What is the expectation of the force field in the Council? Could the Minister say a little more about that? Finally, on this point, Von der Leyen's statements on a vaccination obligation in the EU. I assume that the Minister agrees with me that this is not an EU competence. If it were already on the agenda, and I say 'if', that really is something that we decide with each other here in the House of Representatives and not in Brussels. Then there's another item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u53	On this point, Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u54	Mr President, a very short question. What if it does happen? What if the EU insists on that vaccination obligation? Should the Netherlands be vetoing the VVD? If that's possible, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u55	Mr Van Houwelingen knows that I am not going to go into what-if-discussions, but I think it is simply clear. I ask for confirmation from the cabinet, but I'm just assuming that I think we all know that this is a national competence. In my view, there is simply no question of the EU being competent here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u56	Okay. You say "what, if," but that is very important. Where is the border for the VVD, that is actually the question. Are you prepared to do anything to prevent an EU vaccination obligation from opening up all registers? Then let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u57	As far as I am concerned, that is really another question, whether there should be an EU vaccination obligation. I think it is a decision that we should take in the national parliament. That's what I've argued here today, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u58	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another topic that is on the agenda and which is actually a bit along the lines of this is crisis management and resilience. I have been a crisis manager in the past and therefore know, like no other, how important it is to be able to scale up quickly and pool the available knowledge across sectors. It is good that this is also being considered at EU level. I would like to ask the Minister to make sure that it is not a new EU body that takes over the decision-making process of Member States, because I sometimes see this tendency from within the Commission. Over the past period, there has been a great deal of talk about increasing the European Union's strategic autonomy and capacity for action. The geopolitical context is changing. We all see that. We therefore want to be less dependent on countries such as China and Russia, but also on the US. It is therefore important that we have a resilient EU with capacity for action. In this context, the VVD considers the launch of the Global Gateway package to be a good development. I would like to ask the Cabinet to ensure that this is mainly used to really increase our strategic autonomy, secure raw materials and create new supply routes. In this context, I too cannot leave the Strategic Compass unnamed. Although I realise that the Minister is not in control of the planning of this debate, it is unfortunate that Mr Van Dijk has already referred to the fact that we do not yet have the cabinet position and that the document itself is classified. I have also heard Mr Sjoerdsma on this. At the same time, I feel with Mr Van Dijk that it is remarkable that we are discussing something that is classified in public, regardless of the fact that we are still waiting for a cabinet juice valuation. What is now in the annotated agenda: "The concept contains a good balance between ambition and realism and between the need for the EU to act alone, in addition to the desire to act with partners where possible." I think that is a rather complicated sentence. Because, as you know, the VVD is for a strong and effective EU; I said that just now. This is also what we want in the area of defence cooperation between Member States. In the end, however, we also attach great importance to NATO's primacy and therefore do not feel that there is a duplication of tasks and responsibilities. Perhaps this will also help Mr Van Dijk. For can the Minister reassure me that this Strategic Compass does not extend so far that it provides for an EU army? And can he say that, in accordance with our Constitution, the Dutch Government and the Dutch Parliament continue to be concerned with the broadcasting of military personnel? I assume that no decisions will be taken at this European Council, so that we will also have the opportunity to discuss the cabinet commitment on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u60	I do not know if the Minister is going to say: no, Mrs Kamminga, a European army, we are not going to do that. Anyway, those are words, aren't they? But that force that is now being crafted must act at some point. The question is, of course, whether this can be decided from Brussels by majority decision if it is up to the VVD to do so. Or should the Netherlands always be able to veto the use of this force?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u61	Mr Van Dijk now refers to "that force." I don't know exactly what he means by that. We're gonna get another cabinet response. I just said that I think it is important to have a careful debate on this important issue. This is important to us at least, but I think it is felt that way. That seems to me to be the time for the debate on Mr Van Dijk's question. He knows our party. We always weigh things on their merits. But in the basics we find that broadcasting Dutch soldiers is really something of the Netherlands. We also believe, above all, in cooperation between Member States, not necessarily sent from Brussels. But I'm just waiting for that piece to be discussed, so that we can discuss it, as well as its cabinet Juice. I would like to say a few words about this, in defence of the Minister: he has promised it. I do not see any reluctance here; let me at least stress this in this way to the Minister from my side. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. Yesterday there was already a lot of talk about migration and asylum. There was also a two-minute debate on this, and it has even been voted on. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that it is essential that progress is made at EU level in this area. This is certainly true in the case of agreements with third countries. The Secretary of State described this trial yesterday as a process that "in tar" went forward, and not even that yet. That doesn't reassure me. I myself come from the province of Groningen and I have been in Ter Apel several times in the past period. It's really stuck there. An important reason is that we are unable to get people who do not have the right to asylum back quickly. And maybe it would be even better if we stopped people from taking that dangerous trip. I therefore ask the Foreign Minister in this debate to continue to press for agreements with third countries and to make progress on the EU migration pact. Mr. Chairman. An internal reflection on the European Union remains urgently needed. We certainly see that in the rule of law. We have had a good debate on this recently, so I am not going to do it again. However, I would also like to give the Cabinet the opportunity to continue to ensure at this Council that under no circumstances do RRF funds go to Poland and Hungary without visible and structural improvements in the rule of law. Can he give this guarantee? For the VVD, it is also important to promote the rule of law widely, including in countries in our immediate vicinity which, although they are not or do not wish to become members, but which we do work closely with. I therefore welcome the fact that the cabinet has also made this issue a priority on the agenda at the Eastern Partnership Summit, and that it is also committed to conditionality in this regard. I come to my final topic, Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma also referred to the Conference on the Future of Europe. As you know, I am the rapporteur with him and with Mr Amhaouch. I have already expressed my concern about the level of representativeness and the scope for citizens to really do their story and share insights. I would like to work with the cabinet to make their voices sound louder. I hope the Minister will accept that challenge with me. Does the Minister also intend to make the conference more widely known to the Dutch? For the European Union exists by the grace of the Member States and all their citizens. It is therefore important for everyone to have the opportunity and the space to think and to propose solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u62	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u63	Mrs Kamminga's fine words on the rule of law have also been taken from my group's heart. Another subject in which we are always working together, with your colleague Mr Brekelmans, is Belarus. The fifth sanction package has just been completed. We can now see at the European summit that there is talk of a sixth sanction package. But we also heard this week that existing contracts, which, for example, have Dutch companies with state-owned companies in Belarus that are on that sanction list, are not covered by the current sanctions. I would like to hear whether you are also prepared to make an effort to ensure that, if we are talking again about a new sixth sanction package, it would be wise to include existing contracts and possibly look at how we can compensate Dutch companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u64	Mrs Piri, of course, raises an important point, and I believe that my colleague Mr Brekelmans is always very committed to it. I would almost say that he is always at the forefront of this Chamber in order to advocate sanctions and to increase the pressure as much as possible. I must confess to you that I do not know exactly this nuance, which you are now indicating, because he is also the spokesman on this dossier. So I find it hard to take an advance on that now, because I don't want to get in his way. But as you know, we are always looking constructively at these things, and where the pressure can be increased, I think it is important that this happens. Mrs Piri herself has already indicated that we should look at compensation if this would have negative consequences for the Dutch business community. Mrs. Piri knows that, too. I think she's always in the lead with us. We really need to keep looking carefully at what that means for those parties. I would, therefore, find it premature to make a final statement on this matter in this debate. But of course we can look at that together and then I will involve Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u65	Very nice. We are still a few hours away from this debate, so I think we will undoubtedly have time to see how we can work together on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you, Mrs Kamminga. Oh, there's another interruption, excuse me. Mrs. Maeijer from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u67	Excuse me, I wasn't that fast. I was still thinking a little bit about Mrs Kamminga's comments on this Strategic Compass, also in response to Mr Van Dijk's questions. Ms Kamminga indicated that she found certain phrases in the annotated agenda of the cabinet difficult to describe. I also have this problem, because the absence of an extensive cabinet response means that I have no idea what the cabinet is going to be focusing on at that European summit, and therefore I have no idea what exactly is going to come out of it. I thought I'd take one small point out of it. That is the decision-making process for the deployment of civilian missions, or military missions. We can see, for example, that in public sources, for example in The Telegraph, there is talk of flexibility in decision-making, not necessarily abandoning unanimity, but apparently finding some sort of goat path. Does Mrs Kamminga say that she insists on unanimous decision-making, or is she able to talk to her about what they call "flexibilisation of decision-making"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u68	I understand Mrs Maeijer's question very well, of course. The point is that this is the same thing... we don't have that piece yet. So we can't discuss that in that way. So I think that's really weird. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that, of course, it can be found, but I think it should always be pure. It's a piece classified as confidential. We'll find a lot of that. Our party, too, has always fought for transparency. I think it is the right route to continue to argue for this and to point out to the Ministry that the Minister should strive to do so. But to start a substantive debate now when it is not public, I do not think it is chic, apart from the fact that I am really curious about the cabinet response. That does not alter the fact that, of course, we are always reluctant, so let me put it this way in the abolition of vetos on foreign policy. Of course, we have now said that we are in favour of sanctions and human rights, because we also see that it is really important for the threat we have that we should be able to act more effectively and more effectively there than in this way, with all these vetos being blocked. You're talking about civilian missions. I need to take a good look at that. We always look at this kind of thing pragmatically. We think that the EU's ability to act is important, but I am only in favour of going into the substance of this Strategic Compass now, because it is not publicly available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u69	I am very sorry about that and I am sorry about the failure of this debate. Because I'm not asking you to respond specifically to that piece, but to what's in the paper about that piece. There is talk of flexibility in decision-making, so moving away from unanimity, not necessarily by abolishing the veto, but by apparently choosing a goat path, allowing you to decide flexibly, whatever that means. I don't think anyone knows. I would like to know a little more clearly what the VVD's commitment to this summit is. Then what will you give to the Minister? Mr. Secretary, you're getting carte blanche on this Strategic Compass? Or: Mr. Secretary, make sure we keep our veto? What's your message?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u70	In my view, I have made it clear that I am assuming that I have also explained to the Minister that no decisions are being taken at this Council and that we can have a substantive debate on this before final decisions are taken. So that's my argument, because I share your concern. But to start reacting to things that are in the newspaper and which I cannot test on the piece, I find even more complicated than talking about the piece itself, I must admit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mrs Maeijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u72	A very small comment, because the point is, of course, that Mrs Kamminga can test it on the piece, because you can see the piece. You can't just say in public what you saw in that piece. So you can test it in your head and in that sense you can simply answer my question about that newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u73	I can say it again, as I have just said in my speech: I just don't think it makes sense to start quoting from a piece that is classified and to draw it out of context. I think that this issue really deserves an integral debate. It is important for our future, for many other things that it simply affects, for the position of the EU, for how we keep ourselves safe, and I am not going to do that on the basis of a quote in the newspaper or a partial passage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u74	I just heard Mrs Kamminga state the importance of respecting the rule of law. I fully agree with Mrs Kamminga. I wonder where the border is for the VVD. When do we stop respecting the rule of law? I also ask this because we voted this week on a motion by my colleague Mr Koekkoek, in which we call on the government to respect the legal basis before the European Commission can introduce an emergency measure to ensure that the Geneva Convention and the EU asylum acquis are respected. The VVD voted against it. I would ask Mrs Kamminga to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u75	That's right. We voted against that motion yesterday. It is, of course, about what the cabinet and the European Commission have indicated. They do not see the need and indicate that it already meets it. We therefore consider that the motion is superfluous. We have a good tradition that if motions are superfluous or if they are already in progress, we are not necessarily in favour of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u76	We call in the motion for a resolution for the European Commission to withdraw these emergency measures, because they are not valid. That's also mentioned. There is no migration crisis in which these emergency measures should be triggered. That is precisely the big problem for me, because that is what we, as a Europe, are doing to override our rule of law. So I also wonder where the limit for the VVD lies, because it is not true what Mrs Kamminga is saying here. The point is that the European Commission is creating emergency measures which are not legally valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u77	We really have a different interpretation of that, regardless of the need. On the contrary, we support the emergency package. On the contrary, we believe that this is a recognition of the remarkable situation these countries are now facing. It's a special situation. It's really something other than a regular migration crisis. Lukashenko is knowingly putting pressure on the European Union and its borders. We think it is very logical that the European Union should give these countries the opportunity to guard their borders. There is therefore a fundamental difference of opinion. We see that this is a unique situation, which enables us to support the support package and the measures contained in it from our point of view, because we say: you are supposed to be guarding your border. There's a stream coming up now. We simply believe that these emergency measures and this situation do justice to what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u78	By this I hear Mrs Kamminga say that with the European values as we know them and with respect for the rule of law, we are putting people who are now being abused by Lukashenko back on their feet. This makes them a toy of our politics. I therefore note that the VVD still has a certain border and that it is being pushed over the border at the moment with regard to the people currently at the Polish border with detention and detention, and to whom we do not have access.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u79	I really want to distance myself from the qualification that Mr Dassen puts on the VVD. I really don't share it. The measures provide for a point of contact where you can report. You say that I am distorting it, but I also think that a number of points are really not being done right here. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u80	Thank you, Mrs Kamminga. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u81	Thank you. Mr President, citizens at home and citizens in the gallery. Today I am going to do something groundbreaking, because I am just going to stick to the agenda of the European summit in this debate. The previous times I brought in all other things. First of all, of course, COOVID-19 is high on the agenda. There is a great deal of suffering, a great division and a great deal of unrest. Where it is useful, we must work towards a common strategy. Think of a strategy to help vaccinate in poorer countries to prevent mutations. Think also of a common framework in which we decide to impose an entry ban on countries where variants and infections develop rapidly. With the omikron variant, this was too slow. The lack of Europe-wide external borders means that a variant can easily cross borders. We have open borders. Then we must also be strict together at the external borders. Is the Minister prepared to use this at the European Summit? In addition, the Minister should also be critical and keep his foot firm when it comes to combating COOVID-19. This week we saw that the Minister of Health agreed to the expiry of the covid travel passport if there was no third shot. This goes against the promises made by the Dutch government to the Dutch. This makes the government an increasingly unreliable partner for citizens. We all know that the government is there for citizens, not the other way around. Why is this turn there? Do we have nothing more to say in Europe? Do we follow what is said in Europe as easy lambs? The same applies to vaccination. We have been promised that it will never be allowed. I am also referring to the increasing authoritarian measures that are taking place in European countries. For example, the exclusion of unvaccinated people in the Latvian Parliament or the Austrian vaccination obligation, for children from 14 years of age, complete with fines. These things do not fit within a liberal democracy, in which fundamental civil rights must be maintained, especially in times of crisis. We regularly appeal to Eastern European countries to violate these rights. Is the Minister prepared to engage in this dialogue with the countries mentioned above? In addition, Russia and gas are discussed at the summit. This is a subject that my group is struggling with. The sword of Damocles above this discussion is, of course, the construction of Russian troops on the Ukrainian border and the warnings from the security services that Russia is preparing a new invasion. We must be vigilant, together with our European and NATO counterparts. But there is also another side: a Netherlands in which we have quite rightly decided to turn off the gas tap in Groningen, making us dependent on Russian gas. The Netherlands is also the country in which citizens are currently facing huge bills. Through these bills, our gardeners have to close their former business. As far as BBB is concerned, it is particularly important that we bear the consequences of our choices. If a decision is taken at European level to reduce Russian gas consumption, it must go hand in hand with a huge compensation package for citizens and gardeners. A fund must therefore be made available to assist growers in the transition from gas to other energy sources. I would also like to ask the Minister on Ukraine to use a well-coordinated strategy at this early stage at the European summit if the situation escalates. I have already put written questions to the Minister about this, but I would also like to ask him on this occasion to prepare scenarios for an evacuation from Kiev with his European colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u82	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u83	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Shared values are fundamental to sustainable European cooperation. The value of human dignity is crucial. This is already mentioned in the first treaties. Originally, this value for people such as the co-founder Robert Schuman referred to the value that every human being has within a broader social context. So that is a value of every human being within himself, but also within a broader social context. Now, if you consider how this value is interpreted, there has been a great shift in thought, in my opinion. Today, when we talk about human dignity and what is related to it, it is much more about absolute individual self-determination and autonomy. We, which was the fundamental value of European cooperation in the 1950s, were exchanged for me. Mr. Chairman. The fruit of this is, in the end, intolerance. This is also reflected in certain pleas made in relation to countries which do want to adhere to those original values. They want to stick to and stay on course for us. If country X or Y doesn't share our opinion, we activate Article 7, we take money and we need that other country on its knees. Those are literal quotes. Mr. Chairman. That's a source of concern. I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma's emotion is rising again, but he does not bother to come to the microphone. I don't think that's so diplomatic, nor is it so collegial. Anyway, of course he's free to continue to grumbling in his own way. Mr. Chairman. This has dangerous consequences for the EU's position in the world. Let me draw a historical parallel. The Thirty Years War ended with the Peace of Westphalia in a freedom of religion and a state sovereignty for several European countries. That Thirty Years' War was an internal European struggle, in which many countries opposed the autocratic and absolutist rule of the Habsburger dynasty, the Habsburgers' claims of power. Many of these European countries came under the regime of the Soviet Union during the Cold War, which undermined this freedom of religion and the sovereignty of the Eastern bloc countries. Well, under the guise of European values and under the pressure of crises, the EU often shows a similar tendency to frame and restrict freedom and to limit sovereignty. But anyone who does not respect the religious, cultural and political identity of countries and peoples and their diversity organises resistance and risks an internal European, an internal European conflict. Then we are weak against countries like Russia, China and other global challengers. I would appreciate it if the Minister would give his reflection on this point, the concern about this geopolitical dimension. I also ask him whether he can imagine that Putin or Lukashenko will laugh if the EU denounces certain eastern Member States once again and shows division. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the Eastern Partnership, the Minister mentions the principle of conditionality, whereby those who violate democracy and human rights receive less support. The specific question I would like to raise is what impact this has on Azerbaijan in the light of its aggression towards Armenia. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the supervisory role of our Parliament. As far as the SGP is concerned, the Chamber must be clearly informed and informed about the cabinet commitment and relevant facts surrounding European Councils. I think we all share that. My question is: does the Minister agree that the annotated agendas do not always fully provide for this and that there is room for improvement? For the sake of clarity, I also agree with Mr van Dijk on the secrecy and confidentiality of the Strategic Compass. Then there is the final point. Between the lines we read that this cabinet continues to move towards a ever closer union. My question is: will the Minister comment again on the implementation of the adopted motion for a resolution Bishop/Leijten on the deletion of this phrase? And does he also want to include the WRR report on European variations and do he really want to go for European coordination instead of dominance? Mr. Chairman. I had a whole paragraph on COVID-19, but I can see your concerned look. I agree with the VVD's argument, which is a clear story. I would like to add two questions. When, in the view of the Minister, should this European corona pass be put to an end? And the second question: how compatible is all this with the legal framework of our temporary corona legislation? Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your endless patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u84	That's right. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin my speech today with something that makes my group and I very happy. Yesterday Olaf Scholz took over Angela Merkel as the new Chancellor of Germany. And yes, this happiness is partly due to the fact that Scholz is a social democrat and is in a coalition with the Greens, but I am particularly pleased with the European plans of the new cabinet in Germany: a tougher and more principled attitude towards constitutional criminals such as Poland and Hungary, fairer rules of the game vis-à-vis China and no longer taboos on European budgetary rules or reforms that should make the EU more capable and democratic. Germany and with this Europe will enter a new era. I wonder how the Netherlands will relate to these changes. When Scholz, as Minister of Finance, together with his French colleague, rigged up the Corona Restoration Fund, this cabinet was surprised. The pavlov reaction of Mr Rutte and Mr Hoekstra was to put the heels in the sand. This is a loss strategy that affected the reputation of the Netherlands in Europe. I hope that we will not be surprised this time and that we will respond to this new dynamic and constructive thinking with our eastern neighbours, which are of great importance to the Netherlands in so many respects. Let us start with this during this European winter summit, which is traditionally dominated by foreign policy. Let me begin with developments on the European eastern border. In the letter of parliament, the cabinet dedicates three rules to the construction of Russian troops on the Ukrainian border. I think it's a good thing President Biden is trying to de-escalate the situation. My question to the Minister is whether the Biden cabinet supports two points. The first is to prepare for tough economic sanctions if Russia were to engage in military aggression. Secondly, Ukraine will continue to be free to decide independently on which organisation it wants to become a member or not. Ivo Daalder had a nice quote about this, namely that Putin is provoked by an independent, strong and democratic Ukraine rather than by NATO enlargement. I think he's right about that. According to the Minister, what steps can the EU and NATO take to defend Ukraine's independence and sovereignty, knowing, of course, that Ukraine is not a member of NATO, but a partner country? Another point I have difficulty with is that once again security on this continent, European security, lies in the hands of the Presidents of the United States and Russia. What is the role of the European Union in this? Then I come to the situation in Belarus, which is, of course, inextricably linked to this. I am pleased that the Minister recognises that the EU must continue to pay attention to the terrible situation in which the Belarusians are in. We're not talking about that enough. I am that in the letter attention has been drawn to that by this cabinet. In this context, it is good news that the EU is preparing a sixth sanction package against the regime. This week, during the debate on the Foreign Affairs Council, I was somewhat surprised to hear that existing contracts between companies and Belarusian state-owned companies are being spared. I ask the Minister how this is possible. The Minister states in the letter of the Chamber that he is not aware of any signs that sanctions are being avoided, but I am still surprised that provisional figures indicate that there is no significant decrease in trade flows with Belarus. In what way do these sanctions bite? I'm really wondering. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, I called on this outgoing cabinet, together with GroenLinks, to make additional financial support for border surveillance conditional, for example, on Poland's willingness to make the border zone with Belarus accessible to European agencies such as EASO and Frontex, to humanitarian organisations and to journalists. That seems to me to be a logical step. This cabinet is prepared to give Poland a carte blanche with a price tag of EUR 200 million without conditions, and to suspend the right to asylum with the approval of the European Commission. I therefore read with some surprise that this Minister wishes to guarantee the right to asylum. That is an excellent ambition, but how is he going to do with the new emergency legislation, which de facto suspends this right? Mr. Chairman. The Cabinet supports an approach through the "more for more and less for less" principle in relation to the Eastern Partnership. Provided that the focus is on human rights and the rule of law, this can be supported by my group. But how can it be that Belarus is still part of the Eastern Partnership in this light, even though it will not be present at the summit? If you are honest, you can actually ask the same question about Azerbaijan, where political prisoners have been detained for years and there have been no fair elections for decades. Fortunately, there is also good news. A pro-European government has recently taken office in Moldova. In response, Putin is now threatening to cut off the gas. How is the EU, including the Dutch cabinet, going to help this government? Mr President, I am going towards a conclusion. This afternoon, France will present its priorities for the forthcoming European Presidency. One of these priorities has already been identified: creating a social Europe. Negotiations for a higher minimum wage across Europe and the strengthening of collective bargaining are in full swing. My final question is: why is the cabinet against mandatory criteria to check the level of the minimum wage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u86	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u87	Mr. Chairman. The Merkel era is over. The new team is standing by. Chancellor Scholz seems a reasonable and calm figure. I've met him before. Hanseatic solidity, I'd say. In the foreign sphere, I'm holding on to my heart a little bit. At a meeting between the new German Foreign Minister and her Russian counterpart, the always grunting Sergei Lavrov, the image of Red Riding Hood and the evil wolf appears to me. We'll see what turn this will take. As the Minister knows, German-Russian relations are always historical and politically intriguing, and now so too. Mr. Chairman. Today I brought back something, namely the government agreement of the German Government. It looks beautiful, with beautiful colors. It has 178 pages. We'll see what we get next week. I notice that the word "Nuclear," "Stickstoff," only appears once, on page 41. There seems to be no German nitrogen crisis. That's remarkable. In the Netherlands it seems to be a kind of flood disaster. It's all-powerful. How does the Minister explain this difference? The new German Government wants to quote from page 131 "Die Weiterentwicklung zu einem föderalen europäischen Bundesstaat'. Then the question is: does the Minister think that the Netherlands should also participate in a federal European Union following German example? I would also like to quote page 141 'einer Koalition der aufnahmebereiten Mitgliedstaatten' within the European asylum system in order to be able to accommodate more asylum seekers. The coalition agreement refers to the legal figure of enhanced cooperation, the formation of a kind of leading group. This will not allow difficult Member States from Central and Eastern Europe to get in the way. How does the Minister see this approach? Will the Netherlands also belong to this coalition of willingness to receive? Let me move on to Poland, to the Polish border, also to the external border of the European Union. In my motion I recently asked the cabinet to support the Polish Government in the conflict with Belarus. My question is this: did the Minister convey this statement of support to Poland? Moreover, I fully agree with what Mr Bishop said: we must be careful how we talk about Poland in this Chamber. Force Poland to its knees, and that kind of thing isn't appropriate. Poland has a long history. When I hear the words in this Chamber sometimes, they remind me of the debate in Moscow in 1980 on Poland. That was in the Soviet Union back then. Poles were jammed. The police office was furious, shouted at Poland. They got food supplies and even meat from Moscow. Yet the Poles were at odds. They got money, even dollars, and yet they were bothered. The other allies have already begun to talk about military intervention, such as Mr Honecker, the leader of the GDR. In the end, they only chose the state of siege, which Poland declared under Jaruzelski. I would remind you that Poland still exists, but the Soviet Union no longer exists. Finally, Mr President. On 22 December, the European Commission intends to present a proposal on the classification of gas and nuclear energy in climate and energy policy. How climate-friendly are gas and nuclear energy? In any case, more friendly than lignite, coal, oil and biomass. This gives the cabinet the opportunity to work for a favourable classification of gas and nuclear energy in Brussels next week. The cabinet will undoubtedly find France on its side for once. Coalition parties VVD and CDA will also be pleased. On 10 June both launched the Erkens/Bontenbal motion, co-signed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Eppink, to consider nuclear energy as a renewable energy source. And here is my question, before the other question comes: is the Minister prepared to work at the European summit to give both gas and nuclear energy a favourable classification of climate-friendlyness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u88	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u89	I actually wanted to come when Mr Eppink was with Poland in his speech. There was a meeting in Warsaw, with Orbán, Le Pen, Vox, Flemish Interest and, of course, Mr Eppink's colleague in the European Parliament, Mr Rob Roos of JA21. I wondered what Mr Rob Roos was doing in these radical right-wing parties in Warsaw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u90	Mr Roos has tried, and has succeeded, to prevent a merger of the ECR and ID groups. We do not want to be in the same boat as Mr Orbán and Mrs Le Pen. That worked out well and I'm very happy about that, because we don't belong there. We want to stay in the ECR and stay in the ECR. That's why he was there. Look, if you're not there, it could just happen and then you're gonna get your ass kicked. In this case this has been achieved and I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u91	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u92	Thank you, Mr President, but also thank you to this Minister for Foreign Affairs, who fortunately makes a lot of time available for the House of Representatives. That is not very common when I see how many debates there have been. I am not going to talk about Russia and Ukraine today. My colleague Agnes Mulder has already mentioned this. There is an extremely tense situation, in which we ask the Cabinet, but also Europe, to focus on de-escalation and to prepare clear measures if the red lines are crossed. This underlines what the CDA has often said and wishes to pass on to the Cabinet: to reflect on the establishment of a European Security Council. I am going to talk about the enlargement of the EU, the rule of law mechanism, the neighborly quarrels and the European Gateway EU-Africa. But I'd like to start with a salute to our eastern neighbours. After sixteen years we say goodbye to our good friend and Christian Democrat in heart: Chancellor Angela Merkel, but above all a leader in Europe that we can be truly proud of. Many times it has been recalled that a German generation has grown up who does not know better than Mutti-Kanzlerin. I would say that this applies to a whole generation of Europeans. She stood for a new generation of Germans, a new generation of Europeans, who were ready for German reunification, as East German in Europe. Perhaps that is why this has always been an important commitment for her. I very much welcome her efforts to preserve European unity, so that Member States can grow in prosperity and well-being. "For Germany, for Europe" was a recurring motto in its campaigns. It has formed the European axis with several French colleagues. For her, the Netherlands has always been a natural partner in her continental and Rhine thinking. In our European Christian Democratic family, we will also miss her as a leader. After 16 years, we're going to miss a stable factor. The question is how to ensure that no power vacuum is created within the Member States, including in connection and contacts with Russia, for example. She spoke Putin's Russian language and he always answered the phone. I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Speaking of Germany, including the coalition agreement, which Mr Eppink also talked about. I just did a quick check. In the German coalition agreement 250 times the word 'Europe' appears. Then there is enlargement in the Balkans. We are starting the IGC with Albania and Macedonia, but yet there is still a country that is constantly in conflict, namely Bulgaria. We therefore ask the Minister to commit himself to this. Let me be clear, we are not talking about accession, we are talking about starting the talks. As a credible Europe, we must also offer these countries a fair perspective and not push them into the hands of China or Russia. I would also like to ask about the tense situation in the Balkans, the neighbourly dispute between Serbia and Bosnia. There is tension between the two countries, although the situation has calmed down a bit. What is the EU doing to de-escalate this and keep both countries at the kitchen table? Europe can and must act as a mediator here. Does the Minister agree with us? Then there is the rule of law. The European Court is advised by its Advocate General to reject Poland's and Hungary's complaint concerning the rule of law mechanism. Such advice is generally accepted, but for the official ruling we still have to wait until the end of this month. In my view, nothing stands in the way of starting the MFF rule of law mechanism against Poland and Hungary. As a prologue at the start of the mechanism, the European Commission sent a questionnaire to both countries at the beginning of this month. What's the progress on that? Can the Council now implement the rule of law mechanism? I'd like a response. Then I would also like to ask the Minister whether the situation at the Eastern European border affects the launch and implementation of the rule of law mechanism. Poland has been promised money to strengthen the border. How is the expenditure checked? Apart from the fact that this procedure is going on against Poland, I also believe that we should help the country with words and deed in controlling the eastern border. We are strict on the content if they are not doing well, but we must now also be consistent on the content if they need our support. Where we have left the countries too much to their fate in the south of Europe, we must prevent a second time. Can the Minister promise that there will never be a deal like the Turkey deal with Belarus or Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u93	Last interruption by Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u94	That's right, my last question. I wonder if the CDA would be okay with funding walls and barbed wire without the necessary safeguards, such as access by humanitarian organisations, including the Red Cross, and journalists at the Polish border.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u95	We are in favour of a fair asylum policy and fair reception for those who really need it. Poland is and remains one of the 27 Member States. We are strict on the content, such as with regard to the rule of law mechanism and undermining the rule of law, what they are doing, but I think we should also help a Member State which is saddled with things from Belarus towards that border. We have to do this in a humane and decent way. And we will check that, and so will the expenditure of these funds. But you can't say we're not gonna do anything and we're gonna look away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u96	There is no difference between the CDA and the PvdA that the rule of law must be respected. To assist Poland can be done in different ways. I believe that the CDA is in favour of Poland being able to finance barbed wire and walls with EU funds. That's what I don't think we agree on. I have the following specific question. Yesterday we had a debate and there was a motion against which the CDA voted. My question is simple. If you then give money from the European Union for border control in Poland, should you not at least have the guarantee that, for example, the Red Cross, to name but one organisation, has access to ensure that these European values are respected at that border, even when it comes to migrants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u97	I fully agree with what Mrs Piri says about the community of values. Europe is a community of values, and this is also true in this dramatic situation where refugees are concerned. But of course it sounds very nice for the imaging to talk about barbed wire and walls. I think that's too stuffy. If you're just gonna bring back the help of those people out there in the cold to finance barbed wire and a wall, I don't think you're doing justice to the situation. You should see if you can bring those people back to where they came from. Countries of origin are already helping and taking measures to this end. That is the question of how we can finance it. We are in favour of a humanitarian return policy and asylum policy. And that goes far beyond just clichély saying "we finance barbed wire and a wall."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u98	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u99	A fine argument, but unfortunately it contrasts with how you vote. So here's a neutral question. Do you think, when money comes from Europe to border control in Poland, that there must be access for the Red Cross?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u100	There must be access for all organisations that help. I'm not going to pin myself on the Red Cross now, because then you'll ask me if it's just the Red Cross. Of course there has to be that help. That is what we say when we talk about reception in the region, whether Lebanon or Iraq. The CDA stands for access to humanitarian values, and you can always appeal to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u101	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u102	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'll get to Africa. Mr Dassen of Volt also mentioned it, and it is very important: that Summit is coming, the EU-Africa summit scheduled for February '22. I have already discussed this with the Minister in other debates, but I would also like to give this to the Prime Minister through this Minister. It is very important that the Netherlands, as well as the EU, seizes the opportunities that the African continent and individual African countries have in the African internal market. The Chamber will be informed in detail about the commitment of the Netherlands through the EU at that summit. But can the Minister appoint a number of things? Does the European Union intend to support the African Union in setting up the governance of that African internal market? And are there any specific questions here from the AU or others with the EU or its Member States? Can the Minister indicate how the European initiative of the Global Gateway, which contains no less than 300 billion, is intended to respond to the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative? How does this fit in with the EU-Africa strategy within existing policies and what are the underlying thoughts of the European Union? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know to what extent the energy transition is part of this EU-AU summit. What role does the EU play in this and how are African countries supported to scale fossil fuel? But in the meantime, we're still in that transition. My question here is whether we can also be less dependent on Russian gas to make more use of the transmission pipeline that runs between Africa and Italy and Spain to rebalance the risks? The last question. Finally, can the Minister indicate how Dutch industry can take advantage of the opportunities at the EU-Africa Summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u103	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. There is another interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u104	I've got the motion in part no. 1607 of September last year caught up again, by Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt, then still a member of the CDA: make documents public, such as those on the strategic compass. So the CDA totally agreed. Do you also agree that the Minister should do so now? So not google yourself but just actively come to us with that piece so that we can have a proper debate about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u105	Indeed, we often ask for documents in public, but I think there may also be a certain momentum. We can read it, we get an appreciation from the Minister, and then I think that was also the debate with Mr Sjoerdsma... we are going to have the debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u106	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u107	Thank you, Mr President. With Christmas in sight, Commissioner Dalli recently presented a special document: 32 pages of guidelines for inclusive communication for the officials of the European Commission, mostly to avoid hitting anyone in the head. They must not unnecessarily reveal the status of a woman, whether married or not. "Ladies and gentlemen" are no longer allowed, and neither is Mary and Joseph. An unelected EU bobo never heard of, it also turned out to be a good idea to banish Christmas. For example, officials should no longer talk about "Christmas" but about "party days." Mrs. Dalli knew. Even the Vatican now knows about its existence. The Pope, I believe, even called it dictatorship, and rightly so. Mr. Chairman. Isn't it crazy that someone who earns more than €20,000 tax dollars a month, partly funded by us, is wasting her time making up this kind of shit? That with Dutch tax money we finance that "way with us" mentality? My group would therefore like the Minister in Brussels to indicate that the Netherlands is not waiting for this kind of nonsense and that Mrs Dalli does not have to work on this document any further, but better put it in the trash. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The honourable Commissioners were on the move. Last week, Mrs von der Leyen also made a big deal of money when she said that the European Union should talk about requiring vaccination against corona. She added that proposing a vaccination obligation is not up to her, but to the EU countries. But what are those words worth from someone who does not underestimate the eagerness to add public health to the tasks of the European Commission? If you really think it is up to the EU countries, then as President of the European Commission, do not make any statements about it at a press conference on corona, I would say. Apart from the fact that the PVV is opposed to compulsory vaccination, this discussion should be conducted at national level if it is already taking place. The PVV would also like the Minister to convey this clear message to Brussels. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is being used to bring about the health union. In this context, the PVV would like to know from the Minister what the state of play is with regard to HERA, the pandemic authority harnessed with steam and boiling water. Does the Minister recognise that this authority will be given far-reaching powers and that, because HERA was set up as an internal Commission service, it is not an independent agency and that these powers will actually be transferred to the European Commission? With the agreement of HERA, the cabinet therefore agrees with more powers for the European Commission. Does the Minister think that's a good thing? And how is it that, on the eve of the decision-making process, it is still unclear what the European Commission needs EUR 6.1 billion for, at the preparatory stage alone? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then the Strategic Compass. As my colleague Mr De Roon has already said, the PVV is looking at this with concern and mistrust, because the needle is only pointing towards more EU, with plans for a European army or a European flashpower. All this mistrust is not reduced by the fact that we now have to carry out our monitoring task again on the basis of a confidential document. Impossible. In the meantime, are there multiple versions of it? I'd like to know about the Minister. What version is there for the forthcoming European Summit? It is also bizarre that the Strategic Compass is now on the agenda of the European Council, but that the Chamber has still not had a comprehensive cabinet response. So we have a confidential document and no comprehensive response, and we still have confidential conclusions from the European Council. My question would therefore be: how can we talk about this properly, Mr Minister? How can we control exactly what you, the Minister, or the Prime Minister, are going to do and meet in Brussels? Mr. Chairman. That's why I'm gonna end up with a few questions. How is it going to be decided on the deployment of civilian missions? How will decision-making take place on military missions or operations? Let us be clear that the PVV does not want this, but are there any legal possibilities to avoid unanimity in one way or another, to make decision-making more flexible in one way or another? Can the Minister guarantee that the outcome of this entire discussion on the Strategic Compass cannot in any way be that civilian or military missions are decided upon on the basis of qualified majority voting? How are the costs actually borne? What will be the mandate of the intervention force? What exactly does the cabinet think of this confidential piece? What does the cabinet like and what doesn't? What will be the stakes at the European summit? I can't tell from the annotated agenda. Finally, what will be agreed and published in the Council conclusions? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u108	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u109	Mr. Chairman. On 1 June 2005, the Dutch people voted against the European Constitution by a large majority in a referendum. This Constitution was finally adopted, in the form of the Treaty of Lisbon, which was signed on 13 December 2007 and entered into force on 1 December 2009. This Treaty is the basis for the European Union. Since then, a logic has entered into force which has greatly promoted decision-making at Union level. We saw this, for example, during the euro crisis and now see it even more strongly during the so-called corona crisis. The Netherlands will gradually become a province of a new, large European empire. This while the sovereign himself, the Dutch people, explicitly said no to this on 1 June 2005. The European Union is therefore illegal. The signing of the Treaty of Lisbon has thus de facto deprived the Dutch people of their sovereignty collectively and against their will, as expressed in a referendum on 1 June 2005. This was the first coup. The second coup was committed under the pretext of a pandemic against our individual fundamental rights, in particular Article 1, non-discrimination, Article 7, freedom of expression, and Article 11, integrity of the body. The first coup against our collective sovereignty also promotes the second coup against our individual fundamental rights. Last week, President Von der Leyen announced that she wanted to introduce a vaccination requirement. This is already the case in Austria. There, astronomical fines or prison sentences are handed out to those who do not want to be injected. The European Commission is also coming in the run-up to this summit with a number of oekazes. Question to the Minister: is the Netherlands going to announce at the European summit on 16 December that there will never or never be a vaccination obligation in the Netherlands and that, should the EU ever insist on this, the Netherlands will make use of its right of veto if necessary? The agenda for the European summit clearly shows the madness in which we have ended up, and how everything is determined and dominant in almost all areas the European Union has become. For example, we read that Member States "should commit themselves to rapid deployment of vaccinations and booster vaccinations." We read that Member States must introduce measures to limit the spread of the virus. The Commission proposes, and our government is surprised, that surprise has already agreed to 'introduce a standard nine-month acceptance procedure for vaccination certificates after the full dose'. In other words, you will have to be vaccinated every nine months to preserve your freedom. The European Union, once supposedly set up to promote free travel, will soon make it impossible for you to travel unless you are injected at least every nine months. As regards the recovery certificates, "the Commission shall retain the validity of 180 days after a first positive test." But the cabinet wants the recovery certificates to be valid for at least one year, doesn't it? Is the Minister going to make an effort to do that on 16 December? The European Union is even defying logic itself, and it seems that the cabinet has to agree to that. For example, we read in the agenda for the European Summit that "a third group of EU Member States, led by Poland and Hungary, suspect that the EU's emissions trading system and the Green Deal Agenda are important drivers of higher energy prices. This is contradicted by the European Commission and, among other things, the Netherlands." Really? Does the government seriously believe that taxing energy through the emissions trading system and phasing out fossil fuels has no price-raising effect? Who's gonna take this seriously anymore? But, of course, our government can only obey this claim of 'the boss', that is to say, the European Commission, no matter how absurd it may be. Finally. We read that the Netherlands is going to support the French proposal for a rapidly deployable EU unit of 5,000 soldiers. But there would never be an EU army, would there? I thought that was a conspiracy. If the European interest conflicts with the Dutch interest, the Netherlands must bow to the higher EU interest. We read it back in all kinds of texts from the Council of State. We saw it in 2016, when the Dutch government signed the association agreement with Ukraine in the European interest, rejected in a referendum by the Dutch people. And we see it today in the way in which the government slavishly succeeds the corona orders from Brussels. There is only one way we can get our democracy, our sovereignty, our freedom and our fundamental rights back, and that is a nexit. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u110	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about 15 minutes to prepare himself. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u111	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the European Summit on 16 and 17 December 2021. We're on the schedule from the cabinet. I would like to agree with Members that four questions or comments are allowed. I would ask the Minister to bear in mind that I would like to end this debate at about 6.30 p.m. So we can take that into account. I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u112	Mr President, thank you very much. Many thanks to this Chamber, including the willingness to have this debate with me. In doing so, you will make a constructive contribution to the speed at which I will be unnecessary. I am therefore extremely grateful to you for that. At such a European Council a Mer à Boire of subjects comes along, mature and green, cohesion or no coherence. I remember that from the old days of the General Affairs Council. I will try to limit myself to the main issues as much as possible. Maybe something in advance. Some of you have philosophized about the new cabinet that has been formed beyond our eastern border, in Germany. What are we supposed to think of that and what does that mean? Some quoted from the government agreement. Others, by definition, feel a kinship. I have always learned that change in Germany represents the disguise of continuity. It is therefore very difficult to speculate in advance and to conclude exactly what changes this will bring about. If I have understood it a little, the current Chancellor has won the elections mainly on the basis of a style that suggested continuity with the outgoing Chancellor. So that does not indicate major changes, but the composition is very different. So that will undoubtedly bring with it a new force field. There are some interesting passages in the German coalition agreement. We will really have to look at what is permeating it in the form of real, concrete proposals. It is really a little too early to go into this, but this cabinet is looking forward to it, and I am sure that a next cabinet will look forward to it. We have a long, constructive relationship with Germany. In many areas, the difference in views between the two countries is not so great. That only makes it exciting to see how the new dynamics are going to work, because it has such a cabinet with big plans for innovation, climate and modernisation of society, of course, and no matter how it will have consequences for us. Furthermore, I do not want to overstate what exactly is in that coalition agreement, because that is an agreement between three coalition parties there, and not an agreement that Germany as a whole is going to make with other European countries. There are hopeful things in it, I'm just saying, but we really have to wait until we know how to put this into practice. I do not see him now, but, for example, Mr Eppink said that he lacks the word 'Nuclear' in the German coalition agreement. I can't say anything about that. I can speculate on this, but I cannot answer the question of why the word nitrogen is not in the German coalition agreement and perhaps even speculation in the Dutch coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. Now that that has been said, it might be good to go back to some questions that have to do with covid, because that also affects Dutch people in their daily lives. These are questions that also have to do with the fact that the course is sometimes changed, that the policy is adjusted and that it is difficult to follow exactly what is happening. Of course, it's a big deal. We are constantly doing two things at the same time, and I keep hearing this: we insist that health is a national competence, but we also want to travel as much as possible and not be surprised. And so on the one hand, we want everyone to be the boss and we want to arrange it on the other hand so that it's the same everywhere, so that it's right. Those things don't go all the way together. And that collision, by definition, means that you have here and there rub points, have adjustments, so that things that were actually your intention the day before yesterday have to be changed today, in order to promote that. This can only happen if you are in an open European society, where this is a national competence. And where it is rightly a national competence, I think, because it is so close to every citizen's everyday life and experience. Mr. Chairman. As far as that is concerned, just to get ahead of yourself... Oh, that's a germanism, I think, "previously zu nehmen." So, just to put it first, the Commission President's communication on the compulsory vaccination was obvious, and she explained her personal view afterwards. It is not a question of competence, I would say in the direction of some of you who have indicated that. All Member States do so themselves. And she also indicated that that was her view. The question of the validity of vaccination certificates. This morning, my colleague De Jonge shared with you the findings of the Health Council. That wasn't a decision. There have only been appreciations, because of the speed of decision-making in those nine months, instead of the usual BNC-fiches. As you know, the cabinet supports the Commission's proposal for this period of validity of nine months. Mr Sjoerdsma or Mrs Kamminga asked: will there not be too many Dutch people in trouble when they travel? Look, it is now the case that in the Commission's current proposal, this nine-month period starts on 1 February. So until February 1st, the corona certificate for travel will remain valid anyway. And the idea is that after February 1, everyone renewed it with a booster shot within nine months of vaccination. They should therefore have no problems in travelling within the Union. However, I would like to say straight away that Member States can, because that is the fact that they require different, more stringent measures at national level, such as access to the catering industry. And in that sense, it is good that everyone keeps an eye on, also on the website, what are the rules that the various countries follow, because that can change. When it comes to whether these booster shots are available in time, I would refer to my colleague, Mr De Jonge, who supported them this morning. The same applies, as Mrs Kamminga asked, to the Janssen vaccine. We'll be as careful as we can that, if anything changes there, we'll communicate it as soon as possible. But in itself it is true that the Janssen vaccine is what applies to those other vaccines: so those nine months, and after those nine months a booster. Mrs Kamminga also asked: what about this broader testing obligation for countries outside Europe? Look, we're, uh, the RIVM is, uh, before that. That's what says, "Do it." But not all countries feel the same way about that, and we simply have to take that into account. Mr Bishop asked me if it was a question or a sigh, but both can do so when it ends, that corona certificate. Look, we believe that as long as that pandemic continues, it will continue, and that it is also a useful tool. We do not know how long this pandemic will last, but until then we think it is an extremely useful instrument. The same applies to the other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u113	Let's let the minister finish the block, or theme, covid. I'll give you an opportunity later, yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u114	There are two other points I would like to address. Mr Van Dijk asked about the patents. Oh, he was gone for a while, but I simply didn't see that. I didn't mean to bully him. He asked about the patents. There is a proposal coming from, among other things, South Africa and India, which we are not in favour of. This simply involves releasing a very wide range of patents for an indefinite period of time. The U.S. government has suggested giving a waver very specific for a certain, limited period of time. Unfortunately, the American proposal has not yet been followed by a concrete proposal. It was just an announcement from the president himself. We wouldn't be against that. Moreover, according to all the analyses, it is not the patents that stand in the way of the fair distribution of vaccines at the moment. It is mainly about production capacity and logistics. This also involves the quality of the recipient countries in order to be able to distribute it quickly among their populations. So the logistics chain is much more important than the lack of products. It is assumed that production capacity is currently 1.5 billion vaccines per month worldwide. I repeat, 1.5 billion a month. The tragedy is, of course, that there is such a big gap between the production capacity and the logistical and distribution skills to get that into all those arms. We in the European Union think that 248 million vaccines were handed over to the end of the year via COVAX. That doesn't make much difference to America. They think they've transferred 270 million. That's slow, but things have been better than they have been in the last few months. But it is too slow; there is no misunderstanding about that. Just a few more moments in this connection. Mr Sjoerdsma asked why the additional European Council on covid did not go ahead. It simply proved impossible to get everyone together in the short term. That is why, as a second best, it was chosen to be placed on the agenda of next week's European Council. But it's been tried. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the piece of covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u115	Thank you to the Minister for his answers. Our question is actually about the competences of the European Union. You say: do not worry about this vaccination policy, because that will never be European policy. But how sure are you? It has just been said that we have a European health authority. Vaccines are already being bought by the European Union. You actually made all that line of argument yourself. The European Union can say that we are promoting free movement between countries and are also responsible for the well-being of Union citizens. It is therefore very logical to put forward an argument in which they say that we must also do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u116	Look, it's a lot of gradations in health care. That starts with the commercial side of the pharmaceutical industry. It's europeanized. There is free movement of goods. This goes on to the national provisions: who comes for reasons of what in a hospital and gets what care with which doctors. It's nationalized. There's a whole area in between. During this corona crisis, we learned that if you are so closely interwoven as European Member States, there are things that we did not initially think should be done at European level. I would like to mention, for example, the buying-in of medicines. If you get a race between 27 countries for the purchase of medicines, then you may get chaos but possibly very big internal tensions, for example about who gets to go first. We saw that in the first three weeks when the crisis broke out. Borders closed: my country first. A simple vaccine like Pfizer passes through nineteen countries to make one vaccine, from the needle to the glass to the trechting. The idea that you can do and control all this in one country is actually ignoring the reality of how this kind of sophisticated products are made. And yes, that means that you acknowledge that there are dependencies. These dependencies are also there if the European Union does not exist. The Netherlands is too small to be an autarkian country. Mr Van Houwelingen asks: can you guarantee that there will never be... We cannot guarantee anything in this sub-manical, but we and most Member States are committed not to spend those things that are very close to the privacy of our citizens on anonymous authorities far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u117	I thank the Minister for his reply. It's very interesting what you're saying. My question is again the following. You're just sketching the logic that everything depends on each other. Doesn't it also make sense for the European Commission at some point to say that vaccination policy should also be managed centrally? Do you see that behind the scenes? How great is the danger? Of course, we see it as a danger that the European Union is going to say: we must take care of this at the heart of the matter; that is no longer the concern of the countries. How do you estimate that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u118	I don't think that's a good chance. In this context, I also see that there is no need to tackle this with a 'Community method', as it is called in jargon, i.e. to transfer powers. These are almost all processes in the context of intergovernmental cooperation, where you sit together, you have to agree on a particular approach to something and then it can happen. But often it is the case that logic leads you to say: all things considered it is wise to do it all together, instead of each for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u119	I asked another question about those who had a Janssen vaccine in the Netherlands. That's about 400,000. France has already said that from 15 December onwards you can no longer use the coronapas in France if you have had a Janssen vaccine and not yet a booster. That means that 400,000 Dutch people have a serious problem there. This is not in accordance with EEA directives. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to address France, as well as other countries dealing with EEA opinions in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u120	I don't know better than that the Janssen vaccine is handled in the same way, but I just need to find out. If that is not the case, I must confirm that to Mr Sjoerdsma, but I have to come back to that. I know that we have to realise that at the end of the day an opinion from the EEA is an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u121	That is true, of course, but in the Netherlands there are 400,000 Dutch who have received a Janssen vaccine. Unfortunately, the chance that they have already received a booster shot is not so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u122	No, that's not a good chance. If Mr Sjoerdsma were right, I would venture to assume that this would be a problem. But I really need to figure this out, because I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u123	I'm waiting for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u124	I understood that we would then go to the foreign policy theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions were asked about foreign policy. Some of them overlapped. That makes sense, because everyone who sits here has the same cloud above them, of course, namely the situation in Ukraine. But I will try to do as much as possible to correct the differences between the questions. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Piri asked for this. Mrs Piri asked: does the Biden cabinet support his efforts to prepare for harsh sanctions? The answer to that is yes. We have worked from the outset to ensure that the European Union will play a role in the same direction, namely by preparing measures in case. This is a form of deterrent that can help to achieve common sense. So that's what we're here for. We have said before that it was not on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council for next Monday, but it is now on the agenda. So the answer is yes. To give a specific explanation of what this will mean, I also heard talk here about Nord Stream 2 at this stage is not only not desirable, but also not possible. We simply have to look at where the communist opinio lies from what is wise to do at what rate. So I cannot be sure about that, except that it is not, of course, taboo. In the same context, Mr Van Dijk asked what our country is doing to prevent escalation. Firstly, it helps if the European Union is united. That is always wiser, because then you suppress speculative expectations of the opposite party as much as possible. That consensus is therefore important. Secondly, of course, we stress that we attach great importance to Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, but we also point out that we are open to anything similar to a dialogue that might offer a prospect of a solution here. You can find anything that is true of those rumours, those speculative messages, for the last 24 hours, but that there is movement and that there could be a new conversation, we welcome it and we should all welcome it. It must also be clear to Russia that all these sanctions and measures in preparation are not intended to be based on the idea of grand standing and aggression, but on the idea that we do not want it, but should it happen. This is important, because this kind of subject is always a major issue in terms of loss of face and loss of face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u126	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to ask the Minister about a comment he made earlier this week during the debate in the RBZ Council on the possible NATO membership of Ukraine. The Minister said in reply: we are not about that; Ukraine decides that itself. That is a bit crazy, because NATO has a say in that too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u127	That's right. I actually meant to say that Ukraine is a sovereign democracy that determines its own destiny with others. We're not here to do that on their behalf. Of course, should Ukraine submit that request, 30 NATO Member States will then have to assess whether the situation gives rise to such a request. That is not the case at the moment. The circumstances, the governance of a large number of institutions in Ukraine, are still so far away from what you might consider a stable continuous practice that it is now a completely theoretical exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u128	Let me say first of all that Putin is absolutely not my ally and that I reject what he is doing at the border with Ukraine, but does the Minister agree with me that NATO membership is not wise for Ukraine, as was done in 2008 in this debate, in this geopolitical debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u129	Then I repeat what I just said. It is primarily up to Ukraine to determine its place in the world. Then it is up to NATO, if it were in this case, to determine whether it fits and whether it can. I would like to point out to Mr Van Dijk that NATO is a defensive alliance, apart from this whole discussion. Article 5 is based on this principle. That means that it can also be seen by others. That others sometimes don't see it that way, I also perceive it, but I think it's a starting point to hold on to. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mr Dassen referred to the European Union's military exercises. I could not put that in place, because the European Union as such does not carry out military exercises. I think he means the European Peace Facility. I mean that word "peace" is not euphemistic, as you now call the Ministry of War the Ministry of Defence. It is a peace facility and it is about non-lethal support. It is about logistical support, but above all about support for cyber security. That's important. We have to realize that in a hybrid warfare, if you can turn off all the electricity in Ukraine at the push of a button, without going to war, you have won some kind of war. That has nothing to do with tanks, but it is important for a country that needs to be able to defend itself. Ukraine is being helped in these areas. It's called an abstract term "the civil security sector." Apart from that, the Peace Facility is also being used to help this difficult process, which is the rule of law reform in Ukraine. But when it comes to the military part, that's what it's all about. Mrs Piri also asked about NATO. We talked about that. Mrs. Van der Plas asked about evacuation scenarios. That's a lot ahead of very black scenarios. Of course, if there were reason to do so, we will not run away from it. But we find this in the whole of escalation and de-escalation, certainly a very far-reaching step in public. The answer is: when the time comes, we too will do our best to ensure that people can feel as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u130	The question I am asking, of course, is looking back at what happened in Afghanistan. That's when we went after certain facts. We're always talking lessons here. In any case, I hope that the cabinet and the minister will take a good look at this, so that we do not end up in a new situation in which people cannot be evacuated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u131	I understand the warning very well. I get it, and it's on its own. Only, as generals often tend to prepare a next war on the basis of scenarios from the previous ones, we sometimes do. I had those questions in relation to Addis Ababa in Ethiopia. Then you have to realize that this is a completely different situation than the relationship between the Taliban and the West. But, having said that, it seems to me very sensible that these things should be taken into account. I fully agree with Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u132	That's right. In Afghanistan, for example, we saw that a lot of people were not clear about their identity or where they were. That can of course be mapped out in advance, without any real evaluation, in the knowledge of what happened to Afghanistan last summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u133	Sure. We also always try to know where Dutch people are, whether they are there. But we're a free country, we have privacy. So we can never force people to let us know they're there. We can only make an intensive call to people: let us know where you are, give your email address. In Ethiopia, we do that. And that also helps, but not always.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u134	Actually, I just have a final remark. Of course, we can't force people to let us know where they are. I also hope that the Minister in Europe will send a clear message that we cannot oblige people to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u135	That was the previous chapter, but I fully understand what Mrs Van der Plas is saying. As has been said, this is not European competence and I do not see it happening for the time being. I shall now turn to the issue of Belarus, which is an important issue, but it is not, and on which a number of comments have been made. First of all, I would like to return to Mrs Piri's comment on trade flows. Let me be honest with you. Last week, I had a conversation with Svetlana Tichanovskaya, the opposition leader of Belarus, who lives in Lithuania. She said: we think that there are just more goods coming in instead of less. That's pretty annoying to hear, because you think: what are we worried about, with all kinds of sanction packages? You think that's not true, right? We really need to find out more, but in the meantime we do know that there is a huge gap between the statistics that Belarus provides and the statistics that our Customs provides. That doesn't matter a little bit, but it saves 50%. So that's a huge hole. Because it's all up to date, we're still figuring out exactly where it is, but it's gradually intriguing. You want to get rid of the accusations, of course, and you want to know if it works. If it doesn't work, you have to come up with something else. As for contracts that go through, that's right. I thought, quite frankly, that the United States had a different regime and that they just put the ax in it right away. It doesn't seem to be. I checked a few days ago. America is also subject to the rule that contracts are concluded. America is trying to do something about that. The European Union has also announced its desire to see to what extent it can shorten these contracts, either by offering an alternative solution or by looking at whether they are not in bad faith. Of course you can. If you sign a four-year contract two months before starting a boycott, you can almost assume that that's not in good faith. There are possibilities, which we all need to find out better to ensure that such a measure bites immediately when you take it. Some things I honestly don't know, and some things we just have to work on. They're not quite okay if you want to react too quickly. So I think Mrs Piri has just a point we should look at here. Just to avoid a misunderstanding. Last time, I called in the Foreign Affairs Council for the preparation of a sixth sanction package. Honesty commands me to say that there was no stormy applause at the time. I want to do that again, simply because of what we just switched and the fact that such a fifth package is not a trap axe and so you should do something more. But I'd like to point out that it wasn't arranged overnight. I'd like to bring it up again on Monday, because I really think it makes less impression than you'd like if things were going so slowly. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a large number of questions in this area about... No, let me do this first. Mrs Piri also asked: how is Belarus still part of the Eastern Partnership? Look, it's actually very trivial. They can't come anymore and they're formally still members. That is actually also because we think that the moment that changes there is in favour of something that we all hope you should not work out with an army of lawyers all kinds of things. Then you can turn a switch and move on. That has nothing to do with the fact that we would like them to be a little bit more involved in this way. That is administrative and not political.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u136	Before you continue, Mrs. Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u137	Thanks to the Minister. We really share that frustration about these sanctions! I also understand, of course, that the Minister has to do with 26 other European countries. We've seen how long it's all going to take. We're a year and a half from that stolen election. How long will it not take for sanctions to come at all that really bite? And then there's the question of how much they bite. I have listened carefully to the Minister and I just want to say that I support you. I also think that a majority in the Chamber supports the fact that the Netherlands in your person is taking the lead in the sitting to really press harder on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u138	I agree, as I also agree, that it is a bit harsh that some fifth sanction package is actually speeding up this migration, while we were talking about the drama in Belarus itself. Sometimes it seems that that is overshadowed by the migration drama that has gotten over it. When you see that Mrs. Tichanovskaya's behavior, you see that it was originally about something else. So I'm trying my best to do that. In connection with the Eastern Partnership, Mr Amhaouch asked about accession. Well, that's out of the question. That doesn't play at all. These three countries have a special relationship, but that association relationship is completely separate from the whole subject of accession. When it comes to accession, there is something else going on. Mr Amhaouch rightly points out that Bulgaria is playing an annoying role by blocking the opening of this whole governmental conference, the launch of negotiations with possible membership of North Macedonia and Albania at the end. The pressure on Bulgaria to do something about this is increasing. I believe they have the third cabinet this year. That's just there and maybe something's moving. But it is extremely frustrating, and I agree with Mr Amhaouch. I spoke to them all last week in Stockholm, and then you'll see how frustrating it really is. For us, it's still a little far away, but it's not if you have to work in a country like that. It is really annoying and we are not promoting stability in the Western Balkans with this behaviour. That's basically what it's all about. I also hope that will not take too long. Mr Bischip and Mrs Piri spoke about Azerbaijan in connection with the same region. It is perhaps just as good to make it clear that this Eastern Partnership is separate from that conflict. Let me say this in the direction of Mr Bishop. It has been around for a long time and when it comes to aid it is true: more for more and less for less. We are particularly concerned with this: everything that has to do with improving the state of law and the fight against corruption. Say: the chemistry of the beginning of an orderly society. I have said before that we do not choose a party between Azerbaijan and Armenia. We are also doing so at the explicit request of the countries of the European Union which are inciting them to act as mediators in this conflict. They also say: it is highly unwise to take sides now; that does not make our work easier. Last week I spoke to both ministers, both Azerbaijan and Armenia. At that time, I urged my colleague from Azerbaijan to release the prisoners of war. Even if you don't take sides, it doesn't give you a pass to keep those prisoners of war, as that runs counter to the law of war. They have a whole story, namely that they are not actually prisoners of war and that they did not capture them until after the ceasefire was concluded. But if you're abstracting from all these stories, you're not helping the process. That is what I said: you are not helping the process by even giving the impression that you want to use that prisoner of war as a ransom. For what it's worth. The question will, of course, always be how long we and the European Union can manage to remain neutral in this. I'm telling you the truth. But so far, everyone has been incriminating: do that, stay neutral; that's your best chance to get out of here. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come up... I'll see if I can do it like it doesn't seem too chaotic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u139	And also a little bit with regard to time, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u140	Sure, sure. Mr Eppink asked to express his support for Poland in relation to the border conflict with Belarus and whether we have done so. That's what we did. We have said a few things about that, but you can do that if you support it. That is to say that we attach the utmost importance to Poland's right and duty on the one hand, as Mr Eppink pointed out, to defend that border and to ensure that it is controlled. However, Poland also has a duty to comply with the commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law, as we have agreed with the European Union. One cannot do without the other, so yes, support for Poland, but that also includes compliance with the rules. As far as this is concerned, it is a state of emergency, I say to Mrs Piri. It is understandable that Poland says: we are being robbed by this, this is urgent, it is a state of emergency. But certainly for improving reception, infrastructure, borders... The boundaries are also part of that, but you might as well see if someone should be admitted or not. Does anyone belong in a procedure or not? This is part of the plan, but we have a duty to ensure that this is done in accordance with the rules, especially when it comes to European funds. That seems to me to be the abc. If you support a country in Area A, that country also has obligations in Area B.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u141	I am glad to hear this, because yesterday a different sound came from the cabinet, in the vein of: yes, we are in favour of access to see what is happening at that border, but we do not think that this should be made a condition for European funding. So here's my question again. Poland, together with Latvia and Lithuania, is now going to submit a request, if I understand correctly, for EUR 200 million of European funding to help border control. Does the Minister believe that this is a condition that Poland should comply with international law and that it should be monitored?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u142	That goes without saying. Both things go together. In fact, the European Court of Auditors has a legal obligation to see what happens to those funds. Mrs Piri may now be referring to that emergency regulation. I thought that's what she meant, but that's all still to be discussed. But it is logical that resources, for whatever purpose, should not be handed over as a blank cheque to anyone. That is not acceptable in the Netherlands either, and so is Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u143	Very happy to hear it. So you see again: in 24 hours, a lot can change. The Dutch Government is therefore going to say, also to the European Commission: the additional funds that Poland applies for, of course, also include access to Frontex, EASO or the Red Cross, that at least there will be supervision that there can be no pushbacks at that border, whose surveillance is financed by EU funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u144	I'm gonna have to nuance it a little bit. We are not talking about whether Poland is invoking Frontex's aid. Mrs Piri knows European law better than I do, so I do not have to explain it to her. That's up to Poland. Furthermore, Frontex is not a control body either. But if resources are used by Poland, there is control over how they are used, that seems to me to be a policy for the European Union. I see no reason to deviate from that now. Then, let me add, you can disagree on whether what Poland is doing is acceptable or not acceptable. You can also have political differences about that, but you need to know what is happening. Mr. Chairman. I shouldn't have done this because it's bad for time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u145	The Minister does, of course, provoke a follow-up question here. What is happening at the Polish border, with the people making it through those forests in a terrible way across the border? Sometimes people are patched up in hospitals, but then they are pushed back across the border. Is that legal or illegal according to the Dutch government? That's the question you're asking, because that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u146	I find it extremely difficult to go into this on a case-by-case basis, because then I really need to know exactly what the example is, what the circumstances are. I find that very difficult. I believe that we can all assume that we are obliged to act in accordance with the international legal agreements we have made with all of us. If Mrs Piri's example falls in there, it is fine. If it doesn't fall in, it's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u147	Maybe just to point it out a little bit. I think we'll figure it out together. I believe that these funds have already been allocated, and we have already voted in the European Parliament on the 200 million. In my view, the question was the small debate between Mrs Piri and me, that we, as Europe, as a community of values, always hold humanitarian values high. The question to the Minister is, then, whether we should call the bell, if there are things that we really do not think can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u148	Sure. That makes sense to me. Let's see. Mr Van der Lee is not here, but no doubt there is someone who will pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u149	He got in just in time for the Olympics. Mr. Van der Lee just got here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u150	No, no. It was about Myanmar. Mr Van der Lee had specific questions about this. He asked about sanctions in the oil and gas sector. That's what we're here for, I'm just saying. But I also say immediately that although we are not alone, we are a minority. We also believe, in this respect, that we need to look at what we can do with additional sanctions when it comes to entities and individuals. I often find that much more effective, but that is a personal view. The only thing that has happened so far in this context is that we have made a strong effort to ensure that the junta has not been invited to the ASEM summit last month. But we have, of course, given what is happening now, about follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u151	Very briefly, because I think we are in agreement. It is precisely the oil and gas sector in Myanmar that is in the hands of the army, of those who violate human rights, put people in prison and you name it. In that sense, therefore, I think that is a very logical step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u152	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u153	My question is, because the Special Envoy is constantly being urged, to try to organise such a conference. Is that even impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u154	I wouldn't say that. It is perhaps quite possible that that is the most obvious first step to be taken. We're talking about the UN, right? Yeah, exactly. It is quite possible that that is a first step on the way to. I don't think that's out of the question. Mr. Chairman. I would like to turn to a question from Mr Sjoerdsma on this new sanction mechanism. In fact, we find it very interesting in itself to ensure that you can do something when very specifically one country is affected by sanctions and that is not right. We find it very interesting to see how you can help such a country by using your entire trade policy. We will come back to this, because this is a rather comprehensive proposal, with a lot of hooks and eyes. We need to study it carefully. So we'll come back to this through a BNC chip. But we think it's basically very worthwhile. There are two further questions from Mr Dassen. The first concerns the EU-Africa Summit. I believe it will be held at the end of February. I must honestly say that preparations, and in particular addressing the issues, have so far been relatively slow. They are now about six or seven subjects, which is relatively large. So in that sense, we urge the European Union to speed up a little bit, to focus on what we are talking about. We certainly want to talk about a subject such as climate, a subject such as terrorism. However, there is also a large number of issues on the African side. Mr Dassen's question was above all: can we also see if there can be an equivalent partnership here, and can we see what the African countries themselves want? That question, I believe, arises from an earlier discussion. Yes, it is true what Mr Dassen is asking. But I indicated earlier, during the committee debate at the beginning of this week, that we are already looking at African countries to see how we can shape the agenda. We are also asking the people who are preparing this to get a better picture of Africa's priorities. We do, of course, have a bit of a hunch about that, but it is also important that these subjects should be on the list high enough. Subjects 1, 2 and 3 cannot be European in nature. If that's the case, we're doing something wrong. Mr Dassen also asked about the Court's request for a pioneering role in relation to youth participation. I would point out that the average age in Africa is 19 or 20 years. What we call youth participation is simply representativeness in Africa. That is something we often want to forget when we speak to people from Africa. Those are often older gentlemen, and once in a while she is also a lady. We often forget that the average age in Africa is so different, that the question is: who is here on whose behalf? We therefore urge that we also know what we can do for those large groups of people who are unemployed in these large, expanding African cities waiting for a better life. The people there are often half-educated, but they are trained. This will certainly be an issue to be addressed at the EU-Africa Summit. Finally, Mr Van Dijk asked about the motion on the World Cup in Qatar. I know it by heart, but I also read it for variation. It's good news that we've qualified. Apparently, we all do. The dialogue with Qatar is indeed positive. Something's changed in favor of that. That's what the ILO says. At the moment, we would also be all alone with a boycott. That would mean that we would essentially isolate ourselves. We also need Qatar for all kinds of reasons, including to get people out of Afghanistan. The point is also that it will take another 12 months. At that time, so much could have changed in the world. That is why it is very early to take decisions on this now. Finally, I would like to say the following. I can't read it because it's not here. Mr Van Dijk said: read the Amnesty International report and see how bad it is. I did, because that was a recommendation last Tuesday. That report also says: don't stay away from Qatar; go there. Let me just point out that the report has two elements. One will please Mr Van Dijk and the other probably less. It's got two sides. I think that this issue is to be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u155	There is an interruption by Mr Amhaouch of the CDA and then by Mr Dassen of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u156	I will come back to that block of Africa, because I am missing a question. We had asked the question about the internal market in Africa. There are opportunities. I hope that Europe is committed to this and that the African market is one of the priorities. If we are talking about equal trade, climate transition or all kinds of other things, then the prerequisite is that this is properly regulated. The question was: is there a question from the African Union or from African countries to help develop further the governance of the internal market?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u157	Whether there's a specific question, I don't know. When the African Union came up with the first step, I think it was two or three years ago that people from the Commission were involved to see how you would pour that into the barrel. So I would be surprised if the experts from the Commission had dropped out while the process is going on. They did it about four or five years ago at ECOWAS. I'm assuming the work is in progress, so running work or what's it called? Work in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u158	Then there is the question that remains open: does the Minister agree with us that the functioning of the internal market must, of course, also indicate that it is a priority? This is, after all, a prerequisite for achieving a level playing field. Is that also the Minister's commitment, or our mp, at the European summit and towards the African summit in February?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u159	Yes, with a small remark. I might say that more in the direction of Mr Dassen. The charm of the African Union's initiative a few years ago was that it came up with that plan and that it had the idea: something must be done, because it cannot be that the trade that we are running with each other continues throughout the world before it reaches the neighbouring country. These things work better when it's their idea than when we come to explain to them how you do it. That's usually counterproductive. That does not really fit in with the polite sense of urgency that is there and that is often different in character. If the interest is there, then we can help, but the interest must be there. We shouldn't teach them how to do it. I'm a little cautious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u160	I am glad to hear that the Minister is saying these words and that he is also aware that the African continent is dealing with a completely different demography. It is very important to take that into account. He also indicates that we are going to see how this equal partnership can be achieved, with extra regard for the many young people who live there. I was wondering if the Minister is already actively carrying that out. I understand that the African Union has not yet confirmed that this summit will take place, perhaps precisely because of some frustration about not always being equal. I couldn't agree more with what the Minister is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u161	I have the impression that the preparatory summit in Kigali, which I unfortunately could not go to at the last moment, was not a major success. That indeed indicates that there was some displeasure, as Mr Dassen said. My view now is that this has been corrected, that the mistakes that were there at the time have actually disappeared and that we now want to work on an agenda. I'm telling you, he's not here yet. I still think the agenda is flying all over the place. It's still incredibly vague. In addition, you run the risk of only getting well-meaning statements at such a meeting, without agreeing to anything. I see that risk, but it looks a little better than it did a month or two ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u162	I am glad that the Minister sees that risk and wants to act accordingly. I wonder if he sees any other opportunities to make sure that the displeasure that there was still in Kigali is taken away. Does he also see opportunities to look ahead to the summit at the urgent challenges facing many young people in Africa, so that this does not have to be discussed at the summit itself, but you can work towards it already?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u163	The point is, of course, that we should not throw Africa into one heap. It is a great continent with many differences, with economies that are doing very well, with countries on the brink of civil war, failed states. You have it there in all sizes and species. In itself, it is difficult enough to think that at such a summit you can bring together such a specific subject as the perspective of young people. That is totally different in the Sahel than for example in Mozambique or in Kigali, let alone in Kinshasa. I believe that there is always a task for the European Union to do through bilateral relations. This is also being done hard. That's what the Global Gateway will eventually lead to. That the theme is addressed as such and placed on the retina of all participants, I find crucial. Otherwise, you're gonna walk past one of the biggest problems on the continent. That's a problem that's gonna get in our way if we don't do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u164	Finally, because the minister mentioned the Global Gateway. In my view, this is a good initiative from the European Union to ensure that investments are made, although my concern is precisely at the risk that the Minister has just indicated that it must be done under the European conditions. I wonder how the Minister sees that, also in relation to what the Chinese offer there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u165	This is really a bit of a dilemma. For all kinds of reasons, these conditions are not debatable. The conditions are that there is no corruption, that no commission is paid, that things do not stick to the bow, that it contributes to inclusiveness of society. In those classic things, we're different from the Chinese. Not only can we not change that, but we must not change that either. I think it is important, as I say quite frankly, that we are trying to think much more from the dynamics of society there. You don't have enough start-ups in Africa. What can we do about it? If you don't have it, there won't be a flywheel anywhere to realize anything. On such issues, we must be open to help, if possible. We do that on our terms, but we must also be prepared to take risks at the Global Gateway. I think we're running it now, too. We should not think that we are just walking into Africa with a lot of money to stop the Chinese for a moment. That's a far too simple presentation of things. I think that we are failing Africa and ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u166	I would just like to say to the Minister that he has about 20 to 30 minutes left to answer all the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to call Mr Van Dijk in because I wanted to talk about the Strategic Compass. Ah, he's here! Just a few things in advance. I understand that here, for reasons that I fully share, there is always a complaint about the fact that all kinds of files are limited, so they are restricted to confidentiality. There are no things in there where the world would be turned upside down, because then confidentiality would have been broken long ago. Mr Van Dijk knows that too. Still, that's uncomfortable. The strange thing is that most European countries are much less concerned about this. I also raised it last time in Brussels when we were talking about the Strategic Compass. I said, why can't that just go public? Between you and me, it's not that spectacular, it's not what it says, in terms of secrecy. But others don't. I'm not accusing anyone of weighty, but cultures differ in countries. I do not go so far as to say in advance that all the others see it wrong, but we see it differently. I agree that we see things differently. As far as I'm concerned, we should make it public, but that's not the deal, and I can't afford to violate it either. I'll add one thing. We'll come up with an appreciation. I'm sorry we don't have one right now. I promised it on 10 December, because that would be the Council of Ministers. That's tomorrow. After that, that appreciation is there. Because of circumstances, which are not mine either, we are now discussing next Thursday's European Council instead of doing so next Wednesday. That's why you don't have it, but I've come with an appreciation. I've done my utmost in that appreciation to treat anything that's kind of relevant to treat. I am convinced that this does not violate the confidentiality of the documents, but also prevents you from later saying that there are things on the agenda that no one has ever told you about. That is undoubtedly an unsatisfactory answer for Mr Van Dijk, but that is what I can say now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u168	It is also a question of Europe always making things so difficult for itself with this attitude. We want transparency and I think everyone wants transparency. And then you get the attitude that pieces have to be kept secret. It is very nice that the Minister in Brussels is apparently committed to making this public, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u169	It's not gonna do anything so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u170	It just doesn't matter. A motion has been passed in the Chamber that the documents should be public. And now we have a flawed debate. The Minister says he's coming with an appreciation. When's he gonna bring that up? At that point, of course, I want to have a proper debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u171	I thought Mrs Maeijer pointed that out too. The unfortunate thing is that this debate has been brought forward. As a result, this appreciation comes after the meal, if we did not do anything, but knowing you we would not do nothing; we will undoubtedly talk about it again. What I should do anyway when that appreciation comes and you ask questions about it as soon as possible, if you have it, is to ensure that there is a written reply as soon as possible. I think that would be appropriate in its entirety. I would also like to say a few words about the Strategic Compass, but that is actually how I would like to do it. I realize it's a flawed way of working, but in the end we don't have to feel too heavy about it, if only because this is a subject that will come back a number of times and should not lead to decisions until March. That's the planning now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u172	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Kamminga, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u173	Thanks to the Minister. I think we have found that we all have the same inconvenience in public access to that piece. I hear the Minister say that in the short term the appreciation will come and that there will also be enough opportunity for the decision-making to take place, to enter into that debate or to ask written questions or perhaps both, to check it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u174	This is the order of things, just for you. The European Council is talking about this, as the Foreign Affairs Council discussed it last time; a first appreciation of a first concept. A second concept will then be discussed in the January Foreign Affairs Council, having heard all the comments and comments. That is the second and then there will be a third that has to be decided, so we will be in March. That's about the route I'm on, so it's still coming. I hope so too, because it's an interesting piece and an interesting route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u175	It's gonna come back. Mr Jasper van Dijk, last interruption? Or even Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u176	Thank you. I am very curious to hear the Minister's appreciation of what is being said about this without violating the confidentiality of the document. I can't wait to see how that's written down. I still wonder what will be the real commitment at that summit. There are also confidential draft Council conclusions, I saw. There is also some talk about the Strategic Compass. What will be the stakes now? What does the Minister expect to be agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u177	This has been discussed before. We have also discussed this a number of times in the Foreign Affairs Council meeting. That's about four things. I have never heard any other sounds about that at a majority either. First of all, we note that both the United States and the European Union believe that the European Union should take action in several areas and not always lean on the United States. This means that the European Union will have to set up something in the area of defence capacity. We have said, this piece says, that this seems like a passable route: let's see why the battlegroups that existed have never become something and what we can do to make it work. That's one. The other is the whole chapter of resilience. That has nothing to do with defense as such, but with everything that has to do with the question of how to make us more resilient to the evil world, whether it's hacking, cyberattacks, hybrid warfare, own capacity for the production of chips, simply things that make you less blackmailable. It's also part of resistance. Furthermore, we have always said that it is important that we have decent partnerships in addition to economic security. The Netherlands and Germany have been very committed to this. By this we mean that we will continue to work step by step with NATO to ensure that we avoid duplication. There must be no duplication of effort and no conflict of competence. It must be what NATO and the United States say we should do it ourselves. What questions do we have? They're all over the property. In the technological part of resilience that is: how do you organize it with each other? What we also consider important is to define what these battlegroups can do: where can they go and where can they not go, what capacity do they have, what are they for? That's not clearly defined yet. For example, there are a number of questions that we consider important. To avoid a misunderstanding, we are not in favour of a European army. That's what was asked. But that's not the point in this piece either. There is no NATO army either. There are simply national armies that work together in a certain way. That's what's happening here. That is because each person is too small for himself to be able to mean anything to most of the problems in the world. So you have to work together. I think this is actually the most important thing at this stage, but it is not up to me to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u178	Mrs. Maeijer, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u179	I had asked a number of questions about the way in which the decision is taken on the stakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u180	I'll get to that. Sorry, excuse me. There will be no question of the principle of unanimity. There will also be no question of the principle that each country itself decides whether it is sending troops anywhere. Issues of life and death in this area do not delegate to organs far away from your own national context. I am also very much in favour of unanimity being set up in such a way that it does not, at every step of the way, lead to blockages everywhere. In the beginning of a mission, for example, you agree that you must be unanimous. This does not mean that everyone should be involved, but that everyone should be behind it. But in the follow-up, in the adjustments of a mission, in extensions and in the shifting of capabilities, you could also work with qualified majorities so as not to invoke the constant paralysis that led, among other things, to the fact that the battlegroups could never represent anything. That's what we're trying to prevent. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to go to some other questions. There were indeed some questions about these citizens' consultations when it comes to the European Conference. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for it, others asked for it. Look, honestly, compared to most other Member States, I am not at all dissatisfied with how we do these consultations. We have a fairly representative study: more than 10,000 people who we see are somehow involved. We do research through the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which gives us a feeling of "what do they think of all those who are not proactively involved in it?'. In fact, I do not think the results are surprising, but I do notice what has emerged from these citizens' consultations so far, that the vast majority think that we benefit from a European Union. An overwhelming majority believe that there may be areas that are not yet European, but which they can very much imagine are. An overwhelming majority also believes that it should not cost too much, or too much. There's no cost. So there are also some dilemmas, because that does not all go together. We hope to peel that off in a second phase. To be honest, I am less satisfied with the way in which the bobos have dealt with this so far. If citizens from all over the world have views on what Europe should do about the climate and how to set it up, and they meet in Luxembourg, and all kinds of people who are real insiders reduce that to a discussion about spitzen candidates, then I do not think that you are actually doing them justice, because you are using those citizens for internal discussions or things that are important to us as we stand here, but they are not for the vast majority, let me say, at the top of the priority calendar of the average citizen when it comes to Europe. So I think there should be some improvement there. Then there are the spitzen candidates and the transnational lists that Mr Sjoerdsma asked for. Look, then I have to be a little cautious; there's no other way. So we will determine our position when the Council takes a view on this... Well, the Choosing Deed is about to be revised. And then it's up to us to find something. Until further notice, therefore, I can find something of that or not. Another question was from Mr Bishop, who was about the Ever Closer Union. One calls it semantics, the other says words are important. That is a motion which, I believe, was adopted a number of years ago. And at the time, there was just a reaction from the cabinet, also in response to the WRR report. There is nothing else we can do but, should there be a treaty change, see if we can all agree that this is the ideal formulation of what we mean. It was meant more at the time, so I say to Mr Bishop; therefore I would not make it too difficult if it was written in a context in which people wanted to indicate: this project is there to ensure that enemies become brothers. That's the spirit in which this happened. It did not happen in the spirit of: we must all go through the Commission's equality machine in Brussels. It's never meant to be like that. It has sometimes been interpreted as such, wrongly, but that was never the intention. So we have to keep an eye on the context, and then we'll see - I think we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u181	It is right for the Minister to point out. I refer only to case law in which a certain interpretation of European rules is given by recourse to 'ever closer union'. On the other hand, therefore, the report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, which correctly states: wait a minute, there is also a very passable road that has more respect for diversity. That is why the question is topical. That motion has been passed. We can, of course, sit back and wait for a revision of a treaty once again, perhaps again, but that can already be at the end of the day, so to speak. In the meantime, I would like to ask the Minister: what is the cabinet doing, just a little proactively, with this statement from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u182	I would not like to take up the term'sint-juttemis', but it is quite wrong to ask when a new treaty will come. And that's what it's about, so frankly we think it's a little premature to say as a kind of Cato at the end of each meeting that we think that, and so on. I will find, and Mr Bishop has a point... That's what the WRR wrote. Look, in daily practice, it is simply a question of setting all the measures proposed by the European Commission in line with the subsidiarity test. The subsidiarity test is there for a reason. It is not in the preamble to the Treaty. If you wrote such a treaty right now, you'd probably put it in there, because the deeper forces are different. But that's what we're hammering on. I think that is not so far away from where Mr Bishop's concerns lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u183	Look, I would have liked this answer if it hadn't been for my questions. I appreciate it, because that at least indicates that the Minister realizes that certain legal effects do indeed result from thinking from 'ever closer union' and that thinking from proportionality, subsidiarity and necessity sometimes really leads to different points of view. I would like to urge the cabinet to simply state this: in line with the WRR report, which we are aware of subsidiarity, proportionality and necessity, we use as a measuring instrument that is not 'ever closer union' but that we pay attention to this European diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u184	I do not want to make it unnecessary, Mr President, but let me put it this way: the fraternity context of that 'ever closer union' would be hard to miss, if you have a little sense of history, with that remark that it should not be a basis for case law. I agree with Mr Bishop on that. Mr. Chairman. Some questions were asked about what is called "taxonomy" in the jargon. That is politically sensitive and seismographically risky. Just two things about that. The cabinet keeps a clear line. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, we follow scientific insights. And as far as gas is concerned, we are not in favour of including it. Scientific insights are not going to save you there either, as far as we know. Mr. Chairman. With regard to gas, Mr Sjoerdsma had another question about the joint procurement of gas. We have reservations about this, but there is a proposal from the Commission on this, probably before the end of the year, to see if this can be done. They would then want to do it on a voluntary basis. That is also true, because the discrepancy between Member States in terms of dependence on gas is so great that it is the question of whether togetherness in this matter leads to unity or actually more divergence. That's why that's not such a simple question, no matter how tempting it is in this winter to say: can't you do it all together? But there will be a proposal from the Commission. Then we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u185	Still about the green taxonomy. I know the position of the Dutch Government, of course. The subject is mentioned on the agenda of the European Summit. This is probably about reaching a political agreement on how we deal with this. I also asked, because I want to prevent it from going completely wrong, whether it would be acceptable for the Netherlands to compromise, namely to create a separate category where we will not be in the heavy fossil corner, but also not in the whole green corner. This Minister, who is responsible for our diplomacy and for the way in which we are going to conduct this negotiating game, can give an answer to that, can we not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u186	I can't. I can tell you what our position is and I can also tell you what we are committed to, but Mr Van der Lee also knows that there are 26 other Member States that have those views. Eventually, you're gonna have to see how you get out of here in a decent way, so it doesn't paralyze. A compromise can be harmful, but a compromise can also help to prevent paralysis. Our view, which I have just shared, will be expressed either by me or by the Prime Minister. That view is unambiguous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u187	Can I understand the Minister in such a way that he does not exclude this as a possible outcome and that the Netherlands will not oppose it either?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u188	It is very difficult for me to anticipate that now. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u189	Do you have a question at this point, Mr. Van Houwelingen? I see you nodding. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u190	At this point, anyway. I think the Minister is right to say that he and the cabinet rely on scientific insights, but I think France and Germany are a little less relying on scientific insights. If France can get nuclear power into it, then Germany is keen to get gas in it. Then we're done. I would therefore ask this Minister to actively promote and promote scientific insights in European debates towards these two debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u191	I think it's our expensive duty to try. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u192	I am reassured by that, because I know that this minister is a man of his word. It would therefore be a good thing not only for this minister, but also for all government officials acting on behalf of this cabinet to follow the line of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u193	We'll pass this on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u194	I apologize if I missed the Minister's answer. There is one question that I think is still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u195	ETS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u196	Yeah, that's right, but I still have a question open about the first block. Apologies. Maybe I missed the answer. Perhaps you could go into the recovery certificates very briefly. That's what we're worried about. In the Netherlands, we want these recovery certificates to be valid for one year. The European Commission directs on 180 days. I thought you hadn't answered my question on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u197	Yes, I do. I thought the deal was nine months. Mr Van Houwelingen had another question about ETS. This is not discussed in detail at the forthcoming European Council. If I have been properly informed, my colleague from the Economic Affairs Committee has dealt with this in detail. So that's what we've been talking about. It has been established that ETS contributes only a very small part to the increase in energy prices in the Netherlands. The high energy price in the Netherlands can actually be explained by the increase in the price of natural gas. Climate policy is not a solution for this winter, but for the long term. ETS can be a very good instrument. It is perhaps one of the most important tools to make the transition cost-effective. We therefore believe that this is essential. Mr Sjoerdsma had another question about Poland. I should have gone into that earlier, because this makes it a little confusing. He asked if we would be willing to commit ourselves to using the MFF rule of law as soon as possible against Poland in this case. Mr Sjoerdsma referred to a ruling of the Court, but of course he referred to the judgment of the Advocate General, who is usually predictive of what the Court is going to do. The Advocate General has proposed that Poland and Hungary's action against the instrument of the rule of law be rejected. We expect the final verdict at the end of January, beginning of February. The Commission awaits this decision before taking action, but the Commission has already sent preliminary questions to Hungary and Poland, as Mr Sjoerdsma may know. We continue to press for the use of the rule of law instruments, but it looks good for the use of these instruments; these are the signs. Then Mr Sjoerdsma also had a question following his motion on the use of the Human Rights Fund, on abortion in Poland and its problems. We have financed the Human Rights Fund, including in Poland, but not only in Poland; these are third countries. We are still trying to see how we can give concrete substance to the motion in terms of funding. We do not use this fund to support individuals, but only to support organisations. We would like to inform you in the short term about how we are going to implement this in a more specific way. Mrs Kamminga talked about crisis management and resilience. What Mrs Kamminga says is correct: that is a national competence. But that does not stop us from ensuring that we coordinate as much as possible, because we have open borders. We have seen in the last two crises that this coordination is crucial and that failing that coordination creates a lot of chaos and confusion for citizens. Mr Amhaouch asked about the Global Gateway. We talked about that for a while. Then there is the European minimum wage. Of course, that question fits better with my colleague from Social Affairs. We have agreed to the Council position. It was based on a balanced compromise. The most important points we had have been incorporated. We have worked to include criteria in the weighting when determining the minimum wage, but they are not binding. In the end, Member States, as is provided for in the European Treaties, can make an assessment of how they deal with such a proposal. My hunch, however, is that when you set out criteria, they can then play a role in the domestic discourse of the country in question. In that sense they really have meaning, even though they are not binding in advance. Then I come to the final point. Mrs Kamminga asked: what about the progress of the migration pact? In the meantime, I believe that we have reached agreements with eight countries on withdrawal. In the meantime, that's starting to work out nicely. Much remains to be done, but just look at the visa code. We've applied the visa code. The issuing of visas is more difficult from Gambia, because Gambia does not cooperate. You can see that's having an effect. It's hanging over the market to do that with Bangladesh. That has not yet been done, but the fact that it is hanging over the market has already proved to have an effect. The charm of the visa instrument is that you do not touch poor people, but those who travel, and that is often also the ones who have it a bit in hand in such a country. That's what you do with it. So that works. We're a long way from here. Much more needs to be done, but it is something that lends itself to doing more work and with more countries. Mr. Chairman. I thought I answered most of the questions. If it isn't, I think I'll be reminded of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u198	There is always a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u199	I had asked some specific questions about Hera, the pandemic authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u200	Excuse me. Yes, HERA. We are actually relatively nuanced in that. On the one hand, we can see that this pandemic has shown that, if you have no capacity or knowledge at all at European level, you are tripping from misunderstanding to error. That's what happened at first. People in the Commission negotiated with pharmaceuticals and had never done so before. That's the kind of thing you want to avoid. We therefore welcome the development of this capacity. We are not in favour of framing a large new institution with powers far beyond what we are doing now. We're out of line. So that's what we're looking out for. That you will have to pool things is inevitable, I say in the direction of Mrs Maeijer. We're okay with that, too. But this shouldn't be the beginning of very large buildings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u201	The big building might be the least of your worries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u202	It often starts with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u203	That's true. What has happened now is that the European Commission has set up HERA as an internal service, making it an independent agency. I understood from the previous reply of the cabinet in a written round that the powers conferred on HERA in this sense would thus also be transferred to the European Commission. Is this not a very dangerous development, given the powers that this agency should have? Isn't that something we shouldn't want?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u204	An agency is not a subsidiary of the Commission. In an agency, the European Parliament and the Member States play a role. Often they also have a dual structure, such as Frontex. They may act on behalf of the Commission, but may also act on behalf of the Council. Then they must act again on behalf of the sovereign Member States. That won't be any different with HERA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u205	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term response. See that there is a need for a second term. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your ambition is to end before 6:30, so I'll stick to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is increasingly dependent on inappropriate regimes which use gas as a geopolitical means of pressure for gas procurement;]] [[Whereas there is a risk that European countries will be played out against each other by these regimes if each country is to negotiate for itself;]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to strengthen the European energy market by purchasing gas together in the short term during this crisis and also in the longer term if the results of European research give rise to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Boucke.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1744]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u207	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Parliament has the right of initiative over its own electoral act;]] [[Whereas, following the departure of the United Kingdom, part of the seats of the European Parliament remain undestined;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is open to a treaty amendment as a result of the Conference on the Future of Europe;]] [[calls on the Cabinet in the Council to examine support for European electoral lists, in addition to national ones, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1745]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u208	I have a question for Mr Sjoerdsma. That is also a bit because I am on the Van der Staaij 2 committee. That's what I'm gonna call that committee. That's where we said we're a bit of an ambassador. Perhaps I have not heard it well enough, but I note that Mr Sjoerdsma is tabling a motion similar to that on which we voted last Tuesday. I wonder if that's true and if anything has changed since that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u209	Something has changed, yes, and that is the urgency. The gas crisis is increasing and the risk of disagreement with Russia is also increasing. We have just devoted much of the debate to Russia's position around Ukraine and its consequences, but we also discussed it earlier this week. The measures that we may have to take and the importance of a joint negotiating position of the same Russia, which, unfortunately, we are still increasingly dependent on for gas, mean that this motion is very important to deal with again, by the way, in a different form. I have my own self, but that is my own optimism about the hope that there will be a majority in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u210	Mrs. Kamminga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u211	Of course, Mr Sjoerdsma is free, but I hope we do not make a habit of voting on the same motions every week. That's impossible for the cabinet if they have to say one thing and another time something different. Mr Sjoerdsma is free to do so, but I would be reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u212	Mrs Kamminga is right about that. I myself have bad experiences with that, by the way. I have tried to find a large majority, or at least a majority, for Mr Van der Lee's and myself's plan to prevent a government delegation from going to the Olympic Games in China. Unfortunately, the second time we lost votes, because the Volt Group no longer supported that. In all honesty, I understand very well what Mrs Kamminga is saying. I also see the Minister expressing some appreciation for what I am saying. I'm retreating from this cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u213	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Moreover, I fully support Mrs Kamminga's appeal: no motions that are superfluous or motions that are put forward very quickly. I shall then give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP, who, I think, has one last word to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u214	It's happening very quickly, Mr. Chairman. I have three points. First, I'd like to correct something for the Acts. That's about the De Roon motion in part No. 17 (35925-V) about not agreeing to the Strategic Compass. That went wrong with the votes. I would like to state here that we were in favour of that motion. I understand that's a little mustard after dinner, but then it's registered for the Acts. The second is Qatar. I just checked with Amnesty. Amnesty says that we do not have a view on this official delegation. So it's not exactly right when the Minister says go there. They will undoubtedly want improvements to be made, but that is something other than sending an official delegation to them. They have no position on this. I do, but the Minister knows that. Finally, the Strategic Compass and the way in which we cannot debate it here. I have a fine motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the EU is in the process of building European defence, but the documents are only confidential so that a debate becomes impossible;]] [[Noting that this is contrary to Leijten/Omtzigt motion (21501-20, No. 1607) of 30 September 2020 to publish this type of document in future;]] [[calls on the Government to publish the draft Strategic Compass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1746]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u215	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u216	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mr Dassen waives his second term. Mrs. Kamminga from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have one question. It follows on from a commitment to Mr Sjoerdsma, but I would like to make sure. I also had the question about the Janssen vaccine and its validity. I would like to remind you that I would like a reply from the Minister in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u218	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u219	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I always find it very pleasant to listen to this minister. That's just what I think. That's a good thing to say. Then my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that, following publication of the omikron variant in South Africa, EU Member States closed their borders at different times for flights from South Africa and neighbouring countries;]] [[noting that we have open borders within Europe for people and goods;]] [[Whereas the closure of external borders at different times is therefore less effective;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to urge, at European level, a clear framework that facilitates the simultaneous imposition of travel restrictions on countries where new SARS-CoV-2 variants are emerging rapidly;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1747]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u220	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I would like to have a little more reflection on the shift in the interpretation of values that we share together. That is sometimes a source of discussion and difference of opinion. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to table a motion on how the Chamber is taken into account in the decision-making process. However, there will soon be a committee debate on this point, and we will come back to that. I'm now filing a motion regarding the corona states. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for travel purposes the European Commission proposes a standard nine-month acceptance period for vaccination certificates;]] [[Whereas this restricts the freedom of persons, goods and services for millions of EU citizens who have not had (booster) vaccination;]] [[calls on the Government, during the debate on the European vaccination certificate within the European Council, to consider at least:]] [[the (potential) negative impact on these freedoms in the light of remaining (booster) vaccinations;]] [[the possibilities to mitigate these negative impacts, for example by making joint exceptions for younger age groups;]] [[clear criteria concerning the temporaryity of the European certificate;]] [[the impact of European proposals on national measures, often based on a temporary legal basis;]] [[and to inform the Court of Justice in more detail,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1748]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u221	Mr. Chairman. That was the motion. Then I have one more point. That was the point of Azerbaijan and Armenia. We're neutral. That's the position we've chosen. But the Minister is also aware that the International Court of Justice...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u222	Would you like to finish, given the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u223	I'll come to a conclusion. In the meantime, there's a verdict. I would like to suggest to the Minister that, on the basis of that statement, a further consideration be made, in order to strongly condemn Azerbaijan's actions versus Armenia and to promote it at EU level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u224	It strikes me that everyone has their own story. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of me too, I would like to thank the Minister for an always pleasant, substantive debate. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that existing trade contracts are excluded in the establishment of European sanction packages vis-à-vis Belarus;]] [[Whereas the effect of these sanctions may be increased if sanctions include not only new contracts to be concluded;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the extension of European sanction packages could include existing trade contracts, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1749]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u226	The second motion concerns financial support and the conditions for it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Commission is in talks with Poland, Lithuania and Latvia on the release of European funds for border surveillance;]] [[believes that border surveillance should go hand in hand with respect for European and international law;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at European level to establish conditions for financial support for border control with a view to making the border area accessible to humanitarian aid and monitoring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1750]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u228	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u229	Everything has been cleaned clean again! Mr. Chairman. We don't have any motions, but we do have one statement and two questions that have remained. On that agenda, the Minister did not give us a good feeling, because he said that in February the EU-AU summit will be with Africa and I do not know exactly what will be on the agenda. Our request is to focus clearly on priorities, both from the Netherlands and from Europe. This must be done if there is to be 300 billion for this Global Gateway in the near future, because at least the CDA believes it is important that the internal free market should function properly. This is in the interests of the continent of Africa with its 55 different countries, but it is also in the interests of Europe. That's the base. Then there are the two questions that have remained. Do we have a role as mediator in the conflict between Serbia and Bosnia to prevent the situation from escalating further there? There is also an open question from us about an alternative to gas. We are now very dependent on Russian gas alongside Norwegian gas, but I also asked about possibilities from the South, from Africa via the TransMed line. Are there any actions being taken by Europe to properly supply our gas reserves with extra gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u230	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to oppose the flexibilisation, in any way, of decision-making in the field of civilian and military missions and to insist on unanimous decision-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1751]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u232	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to state at the European Summit that the holding of a debate on whether or not to require vaccination is a matter for the sovereign countries and not for the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1752]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u233	Mr. Chairman. I had almost tabled a third motion to give my colleague, Mr Van Dijk, the opportunity to correct his historical error, but after Mrs Kamminga's exhortation on the filing of double motions, I shall leave that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u234	Thank you. It helps, doesn't it, being an ambassador? And the Van der Staaij working group will soon have to come forward with the report, so that promises a lot. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for his answers. We are pleased to hear that there are no plans for a European army and that the government does not support it either. But we are concerned about it, because we see a lot of articles that actually call for such a European army to be set up, for example under the motto of strategic autonomy. Hence my first motion. I also have three instructions that we would like to give to the Minister if the Chamber supports that. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the growing number of votes in favour of a European army;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the creation of a European army at the European Summit on 16 and 17 December,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1753]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u236	The second motion is on the subject of Mrs von der Leyen's comment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the cabinet is currently opposed to vaccination;]] [[whereas there is also no majority among the Dutch population in favour of a vaccination obligation and that the Chamber opposes it;]] [[whereas a vaccination obligation is therefore rejected by both the government and the population;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the statement by the President of the European Commission, Von der Leyen, at the European Summit on 16 and 17 December on the desirability of a vaccination obligation for EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1754]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u237	The last motion concerns the situation in Austria. We are also very concerned about this, because that is, of course, what is going on now when it comes to vaccination. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently a lockdown in Austria, which continues to apply to unvaccinated persons after the current expiry date of 13 December;]] [[noting that a vaccination obligation will be introduced in Austria on 1 February;]] [[whereas there are millions of Austrians who are unfairly disadvantaged and are restricted in their freedoms by the lockdown and are protesting very strongly;]] [[Whereas the penalties for non-vaccinating amounts to thousands of euros and those who cannot afford to do so may even receive one month's imprisonment;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the compulsory vaccination constitutes pure coercion in view of the financial or even freedom-loving consequences;]] [[calls on the Government, at the European Summit on 16 and 17 December, to urge Austrian colleagues to reverse the measures on vaccination and lockdown based on medical status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1755]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u239	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. The Minister has indicated that he needs about ten minutes to prepare himself. I shall therefore suspend the sitting until approximately 6:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u240	The next item is the second term on the cabinet side, and I give the floor to the Minister to answer a single question and to give his appreciation of a number of motions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was another question from Mrs Kamminga about the Janssen vaccine. That's what's happening right now. It is not true that the European DCC would no longer be valid on 15 December. You can also travel to France with the Janssen vaccine after 15 December. But if that Janssen vaccine was placed more than eight weeks ago, then it is no longer valid for access to national facilities for which a vaccination certificate is requested. Basically, you can go there, but that can only be done with a negative test result. It's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u242	A follow-up question: will this change after 1 February? Are those nine months going to be... Because this situation, we can have all kinds of reflections about it, but that's just what it is. But are those nine months after 1 February also going to apply to Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u243	We are calling, and indeed the Commission, for no distinction to be made between vaccines. Actually, that's what it starts with. We are advocating this period of validity of nine months. But, unfortunately, other Member States make that distinction, and that is a national competence. So we regard people with Janssen as well protected, but France sees that differently. Whether that changes after February 1st, I honestly don't know. That's still premature. Mr Amhaouch had another question about Bosnia and Herzegovina. I forgot. The EU, as Mr Amhaouch knows, plays a mediation role in the conflict and the EU Special Representative Lajčák and his team are trying to promote as much dialogue as possible between Belgrade and Pristina. I myself spoke to the Serb Foreign Minister, and he promised me that he would do his best not to throw oil on the fire. By the way, we have carefully thrown up a ball in the direction of Dodik, or perhaps we should not think about sanctions there. Everyone thought that was premature, so that doesn't play out now. But the idea is to keep an eye on the wishes of and the Special Representative, that is Sattler, but also of the High Representative, Schmit. I have spoken with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who also said that it is actually a bit premature at the moment to intervene really hard, but that the clock is ticking. For there have all been announcements, but successfully the action begins. The IRS doesn't work together anymore, et cetera. You're gonna get in trouble, of course. So it might be possible to take a next step, but at the moment it is mainly de-escalating, de-escalating and exerting pressure on Dodik. Mr Amhaouch asked about energy alternatives Africa. In the long term, it would of course be quite possible to import renewable energy from Africa, in the form of hydrogen. But first of all, Africa itself now has an urgent need for affordable and reliable energy. A large part still cooks with wood. For the time being, it is mainly a partnership in which the European Union itself is going through a transition to renewable energy and we are helping African countries to experience this transition and to achieve universal access to energy. So we are not yet in a phase where we say: from Africa we bring energy here. We are still at a stage where the question is whether Africa itself can get enough clean and renewable energy. Mr Amhaouch also had a question about using the TransMedgas pipeline, if I am not mistaken, to become less dependent on Russian gas. We are committed at EU level to a strong European energy market and to diversification, and this TransMed pipeline is certainly part of it. However, as we know, the EU is also importing pipeline gas from Norway and the liquefied gas terminals can now provide 40% of European gas imports. It might also be good to point out that TransMed accounts for less than 10% of gas production, so not the lion's share. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I'll be through the questions and get to the motions. The first motion is the motion in part No. 1744 by Mr Sjoerdsma. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs gave that same motion judgment Chamber, but with a comprehensive interpretation and explanation. This explanation is as follows: in the short term it is really undesirable, but we are open to proposals from the European Union to see in the longer term whether this is a sensible way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u244	Thank you. Let me see if Mr Sjoerdsma agrees with this interpretation. That's the case. Then the motion gets to part No. 1744 Judgment Room. Mr Bishop of the SGP had another question, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u245	Yes. I had asked the Minister to look again and reflect on that conflict in the light of the recent ICJ ruling. It may also be referred back to this in writing. I have no objection to that. It's okay to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u246	Maybe very briefly. In itself, it is of course good news that the parties have chosen to bring this dispute before the International Court of Justice. We hope that this will lead to something that will put an end to this conflict, but that does not mean that, given what the negotiators have to say, we would now like to decide to take sides. That's what we really think is premature. Mr President, the motion on item No. 1745. That is a motion by Mr Sjoerdsma. It's about electoral lists, European electoral lists. We want to discourage this motion, because we think it premature to examine support for it now in the Council. The Netherlands must first determine its own position. The motion in part No. We want to discourage Mr Van Dijk's 1746, which is simply in breach of EU rules. The motion in part No. 1747 by Mrs Van der Plas we would like to leave the Chamber of Justice. In the example of the ban on flying South Africa, you have already seen that this has happened within a European framework, so we are happy to leave that to the Chamber. The motion in part No. I would like to advise against Mr Bishop on 1748. We are in favour of the nine-month period, and we are also going to make an effort to implement this decision here in the Netherlands. The motion in part No. Mrs Piri's 1749 concerns the extension of sanctions packages to existing contracts. I'd like to give it to you, Room. I would also like to take it into account in the letter on the implementation of the sanctions policy I promised. The motion in part No. 1750 deals with conditions for financial support. That's a complicated one, but I'd like to dissuade her. The EU instrument, the Border Management and Visa Instrument, has already been established. This is based on the fact that we are all states of law and trust each other. If there is any indication that this is not the case, Poland must also report on what is happening. Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 1751 we are called upon to oppose the flexibilisation of European defence decision-making. I'd like to advise against that motion. The motion in part No. 1752 wants us to make it clear that vaccination is a sovereign matter for the Member States. Everyone knows that; that is a national competence. Mrs Von der Leyen has also honestly stated that it was a personal opinion of hers. As far as we're concerned, that's what's done. I'll come to the motion in part No. 1753.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u247	What is your verdict on the motion in part No. 1752?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u248	Dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 1753. This is a first reconnaissance. There is no European army at all. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u249	Before proceeding, there is a question from Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u250	Yes, a very short question. I thank the Minister for his appreciation. Look, we filed this motion on purpose. We are all opposed to a European army. The Minister spoke more or less against this, the Chamber does not want it. I tried to make it clear in my second term: if you read all kinds of pieces, you will find that this is something that plays. If the Dutch people do not want it, if the House of Representatives does not want it, if the Minister does not want it, then it is not superfluous, then it is very important to make that clear. Then it is important for the Minister to make a clear statement about this at these summits. He has to say: that is what the Netherlands is against? You have to press back every once in a while, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u251	Yeah, but the point is that "repress" from the premise is that there's pressure somewhere. You say "back," but there has to be an act and then there's a reaction. There is no pressure at all to create a European army, because nobody wants a European army. Yes, there are people who want that personally, but there is no European army in all these proposals. If you press back without pressure, you fall over, and that's a little tricky. That is what I really want to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u252	Thank you to the Minister for his response. But I call France, for example. I call that initiative of the 5,000 that is now before us. I just mentioned the pieces. There's definitely... There are countries that insist on that, aren't there? Let us take France as an example. Isn't that what the French are calling for? According to the minister, they're not working on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u253	As far as I know, France does not renounce a French army, nor does it abandon the Marseillaise. So that doesn't play at all at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the motion in part No. 1754. We have just talked about this; I would like to advise against that motion. Then the motion to part No. 1755. This is about mandatory vaccination. That is a national competence, so I would also advise against that motion. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u254	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u255	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. I thank the Minister once again. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home.
