ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the report by the parliamentary interrogation committee on child care allowance 'Unknown injustice'. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance. The Minister of Finance is on his way. He's a little late, so he let me know personally, but he'll be joining V-K soon. All Members have ten minutes' speaking time. I would like to agree with the Members to ask each other about six questions or to make comments and then also to the directors. Let's see what we can come up with. If we're short and powerful, I think I'll be a little more flexible in that, or else I'll try to stick to six. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u2	Yes, unorthodox rise and fight injustice. That's what Peter R. de Vries has done in recent years. I really hope from the bottom of my heart that we will see that much longer. I wish him and his next of kin... "Next guys," I say! I wish him and his family all the strength at this difficult time and I wish everyone who assists him. The unprecedented injustice we are talking about today is also an attack on the rule of law. A lot of people were thrown into deep misery by our own government. Yesterday we received a report showing that the stamp "frauder" was given to remove work stocks administratively. And then there are people who dare to say: Parliament wanted this. For years, this was the image: it was requested by parliament. A settlement culture would have arisen in The Hague, says former Minister Dijsselbloem. Does the Prime Minister agree? I had a debate with him on the job carousel. He didn't want me to say that. If something went wrong, the cabinet would solve it and we wouldn't hear from them. But how can he explain that all the people who were heard before the interrogation committee, under oath, are still in the saddle high and dry? That's not a face, is it? Does the Prime Minister agree? It goes on and on. There has been a brave gentleman who has stepped forward and said: I have been dealt with under the stamp of fraud "code 1043." He was gonna be in court this week against the IRS. The IRS has written a statement of defense of hundreds of pages. That's what's going on. Hundreds of pages from a government agency about you being a fraud. And now he's being told right before the trial that there's been an official complaint. The IRS recognizes guilt and the trial is off. But why is this still going on? Can the Minister of Finance, together with the Secretary of State, explain clearly what they have done in the policy of stopping the legal attack on individuals, which crushes people? Is it true that the CAF team still exists, even if that would stop? Is it true that Supplements still send letters, even recently, to people that they have to pay back everything if they do not send their annual statement of childcare very quickly? Why is it still that language? People are getting cold around the heart. You scare the shit out of them. Does the Secretary of State agree with the lawyer Besselink that the all-or-nothing approach "You have to repay everything in case of a mistake or in case of over-received debt instruments" is not meant anywhere and is not included in the Childcare Payment Act or in the Awir? If on 22 June 2014 the MPs who received an e-mail from Kristel de Waal were the spokesperson child care of the Labour Party, D66, the SP and GroenLinks, including yourself, chairman of the committee, would have been interested in the question why on earth people had to pay €150,000 back to Surcharges, then the world would have looked really different for families. A lot of kids would have been saved. GroenLinks and the SP did ask parliamentary questions, but they were answered incompletely. It was said by the then Minister of Social Affairs: I can inform you in confidence about what is going on with these parents. What was in that confidential information? Did that come from the IRS? Kristel de Waal has been compensated, just like Kristie Rongen and Nazmiye. They all checked in back then. It was then 50 parents who told their story. If then doors had opened, if then had been listened, then their children would not have been so damaged, nor would they have been so damaged. I know that the Prime Minister, but also the Secretary of State and the Minister, spoke specifically with these three parents. And I was so curious: are they still in touch with them? Do they ever inform these parents about what's going on in life, how hard it is to pick up the life they run into? I'd like to hear how the Prime Minister is fulfilling his commitment to these parents. We see a pattern of loss of human size in automatic processes in which people are completely ground. The chairman of the parliamentary interrogation committee asked everyone to look in the mirror. Did the government do the same? Are people facing problems now face personal and human? Are the appeals and appeals now humanized? Are people gonna get a call? I'm afraid the worst, with a look at my mailbox. It is not just about the Tax Administration; it is also about the UWV, about municipalities... And did the room look in the mirror? Did you look in the mirror, I say to my colleagues. If the SP's parliamentary questions had been taken seriously, this would not have happened. The same goes for my black book, in which I said: set-up/great debt is a big problem. That just fell into dead sand at first. No other MP was really interested in what was there. So yesterday we received that report which states that it was done of its own motion to eliminate work stocks. I can't get it out of my mouth. The supplemental scandal is not an incident. It is because of the human image that prevails in the political and administrative direction of our country. I call the elite one, too. They look down on people who are not successful in their eyes. If you're a loser who needs a supplement or a benefit to make a living, then you're actually a profiteer, aren't you? Then you need to be checked. Then you're actually a fraud. This is how all our social provisions are set up. That's how judges looked at people. Does the Prime Minister recognize this? If he does not want to laugh at this one time, I would like to ask. In the Ministerial Committee on Fraud, under the leadership of this Prime Minister, it was decided in 2014 to share massive data from people who were at risk, people who had allowances, people who had benefits. In the preparatory paper for that ministerial committee on fraud, it was stated that nationality is an indicator of fraud. Does the government still think so? Mr. Chairman. The fish is gonna rot in the head. This Prime Minister was responsible for driving fraud policy forward in social laws and later in the government as a whole. I wish we could see something new, but that starts with recognition. Does the Prime Minister recognize that? Does the Prime Minister recognise that if the rule of law is not for everyone, then he does not exist? I would like to make two more points. I'm gonna try and walk through it as best I can. The Committee of Inquiry has not been given easy information. The President made that very clear. It's also in the report. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: if she looks at it now, how did it go? Is it true that the interrogation committee has had to reclaim several times, because attachments to e-mails were not provided automatically? And is it also true that this was especially the case with all the e-mails that were about that crisis month in 2019, of which Uijlenbroek, the then Director-General of the Tax Administration, said it existed to save the State Secretary and not to tell the truth? Why did RTL and Trouw's requests for the documents that deal with them never get motivated? That sounds procedural, but it is very substantive. Those documents show that there were already compensation plans in 2017. If those compensation plans had been implemented in 2017, we wouldn't be here right now. Then those lives wouldn't have gone off the rails like that. I have great doubts whether the Committee of Inquiry has received all the documents it asked for. We requested everything about the Palmen report, but that mail about not archiving, which was also about two or three weeks ago, did not come to us. As a result of that second-term doubt, I will table a motion to have a parliamentary lawyer look into whether the POK got everything. This can be done on the basis of all the documents made public, because during our interviews and during the weekend before we presented our report, all kinds of documents were made public that had been requested by journalists by appealing to the Wob. And what I find very strange, and I would particularly like to ask the Minister, who unfortunately is not here, but he will undoubtedly listen: why isn't there a single text or app in it from him? I know they are there, because I apprehended him on this matter. And that's so weird that you're on a parliamentary interrogation committee, and you know it's there because we've advanced it, but it's not there. Finally, Mr President. Many people rightly praise Eva González Pérez, a passionate lawyer for her clients. There is also much fame for the journalists of RTL and Trouw, who kept asking. And MPs who did their jobs were also complimented. There has been a whole debate on administrative law, on the drafting of judges, on how they judge residents when they are opposed to public services. But one person is really always unlisted, and that's the employee of the Objection Charges Department. He saw that the Tax Administration did not bring all the documents into the justice cases of the minister that were dealt with under CAF 11. And he made sure that those documents were added to the file in court, which allowed it to be used, and the lawyer won the cases. This employee then started a case by the then Director General of the Tax Administration, because he said this would be a leak. A criminal expedition against the employee who told the truth. This is what we found out as a room. And two years ago in the debate, I can remember very well. We demanded from Menno Snel that he stop doing so, with that witch hunt on this whistleblower............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It has been corrected, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State, but also the Prime Minister: has this man received any compliments, a flower, an official letter of thanks for his contribution to the rule of law? Did this civil servant, who has served faithfully for years to the Tax Office, even get a proper goodbye when he retired? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV. And I forgot to welcome the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. We often talk about this shit here, this affair. And the danger is always that a lot of big words are used and that it all gets a little slutty. I can tell by myself that it is difficult to start this before the 12th or 15th time. And yet it has to be. It has to be, and it needs to be, because it's unbelievable what happened to the parents in this supplementing affair. If you read it all quietly, it's also stories that don't fit the Netherlands. It's been said before. People who have done nothing wrong were hunted down for years by the Tax Administration and thrown into financial misery, with great consequences for their work, health and children. Those parents were powerless and hopeless against that powerful tax administration with its many lawyers. And the damage is often unmeasurable, both financially and emotionally. In the meantime, 42,000 citizens have registered as duped, and that is only the child care allowance, because the problem is also with other allowances. And no one can predict and say exactly what else will be on the table in the next few months. That much went wrong at Finance, that this permanent finance committee knew for years. And that the organization and the ICT of the Tax Administration were a gang, we knew that, too. But that a service, the Tax Administration, the Dutch government, would consciously destroy the lives of ordinary citizens, that, I think, no one could have imagined a few years ago. I would also like to make it clear that I am not talking about the hard-working civil servants, who are only working on a fair and fair tax system. It is, of course, about the political summit in the Netherlands, and the top officials at Finance and the Tax Administration. It's about those people who already knew in 2009 that the all-or-nothing approach was bullshit. Those people put hundreds of thousands of civilians on one of the blacklists without informing them. Those people accidentally destroyed 9,000 court files. Those people have made every effort not to go into compensation for parents. Those people deliberately informed the Committee of Inquiry late, wrong or not fully. I am referring to those people who are responsible for violating the fundamental principles of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. The violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law: that is one of the conclusions in the committee's investigation report. And in between, an interrogation committee that writes a report with conclusions: more committees of inquiry should do so. The fundamental principles of the rule of law have therefore been violated, but all the main players are still there. No one's been convicted. And what else is serious? The POK has been obstructed. A quote from the report: "All in all, the POK cannot establish that it has received all the advanced documents. The committee is very displeased about that." That's nice Hague for: we feel cheated, pissed off by Finance. They've been paged, too, because many cases, many files have been deliberately withheld. In 2009 there was already an opinion from the state attorney. That opinion was held up for the Chamber until January 2021. The memo-Palms even made them disappear, lacquered or unpainted three times. Besides, it's not just the committee that's been obstructed. We who sit here, the permanent finance committee, have the same experience. Pieces we always get too late, and further on it is slowing down and training, especially slowing down through investigations. That is actually also a message to ourselves: let us be careful with investigations. This committee had to wait for Donner 1. We had to wait for Donner 2. We had to wait for the ADR. We had to wait for Allen & Overy. We had to wait for the Personal Data Authority. We had to wait for KPMG. And now we're waiting for PwC again. That training is still going on, to this day. Last night, we suddenly got 41 pages of new information. And another recent example: the memo-Palms I was talking about had been actively lost. It was stashed somewhere for political reasons. We now know that officially since 15 June 2021, not even a month ago. This was demonstrated by an e-mail exchange between the Tax Administration and Finance. I quote: "This document does not like to spread anymore or hang in Digidoc." That was on June 5, 2019. The word "not" of "do not spread further" was in capital letters. Then how clear do you want it to be that pieces willfully be lost? But the current Secretary of State knows how to run it. Deadly nice and with dry eyes lets them know, and I quote: "The request not to archive the memo now was intended to allow a pure reconstruction of the follow-up of the memo." So first you say you're not going to archive it and then you say: that's actually really good, because then you can create a beautiful timeline. But it doesn't occur in that case. It's crazy. They're inventing an alternative reality, and to this day, they're getting away with it. After all these years it is clear that it does not matter whether this department is run by someone from the VVD or someone from D66. It's the same regent attitude. Mr. Chairman. But there's also good news, not for the parents, but for the perpetrators. Because while the parents have to wait for the compensation, this cabinet has arranged EUR 5 billion for itself. According to the Spring paper, this money is primarily intended to put the information system in order and to improve services. You'll have to dare. Approximately 3 billion is reserved for the parental recovery operation until 2025. Besides, out of those 3 billion, a lot of civil servants' salaries are also paid. But 5 billion goes to the cabinet, the people who were responsible for the problems. Mr. Chairman. Where are we now, six months after the committee report? The conclusion is not happy, I'm afraid. The real number of victims is still unknown. The recovery operation's almost stalled. The main guys are still out there. No one has even been prosecuted by the D.A., despite everything that's happened, despite my oaths, despite everything. Mr President, allow me to say that my conclusion is that we see the remnants of a bankrupt rule of law and a corrupt OM. Random and the rule of law don't go together. How is it possible that the opposition leader of the Netherlands is being prosecuted and sentenced yesterday for asking a simple question, and that, on the other hand, directors and officials who knowingly violated the law and destroyed the lives of tens of thousands of families get away without persecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u6	I really like it when an elected representative here says that we have a corrupt prosecutor. I know that his colleague Markuszower also calls that regularly. I would like to say that if there has been extensive investigation into the interference, because that is what he is referring to in the Wilders case, a thousand documents have been studied extensively and the conclusion is that there was no interference and that it is simply a pure matter, then surely you cannot maintain that our OM is corrupt? I really think that's going too far. I ask my colleague to take that back. It does not do justice to all the work that is done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u7	I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Azarkan van DENK for his first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's often loners, brave people who make the difference. We see that Peter R. de Vries do in the fight against injustice or assisting victims. But also in this dossier, as Mr Leijten just mentioned, there are people such as Joop, Pieter Kleijnnijenhuis and Jan Kleijnnijenhuis, Eva González Pérez and a number of others. I call Mr. Niesing, whom I spoke to last week. We are here today to discuss the approach and conclusions of the report Unfamiliar injustice. The conclusions are truly unprecedentedly harsh and perhaps the hardest we have seen in recent years. Our rule of law is at stake. For this reason, we also had a discussion with a number of people two weeks ago with the Venice Commission. The fundamental principles of the rule of law have been violated in the implementation of laws. This was the case both in the implementation by the Tax Administration and in the legislator and in the caselaw. In combination with the lack of order of information from the cabinet, from the government, it made it extremely painful. And that was not just the case with the Chamber on a multiannual basis. It was also in front of the interrogation committee. The provision of information was often too slow, incomplete and often wrong to the Chamber. And that was under the leadership and direction of this Prime Minister. I've often felt cheated. I mention the first time I spoke on this subject. I remember. I sat next to colleague Snels. It was in 2017. I asked for attention, because when the Ombudsman's report was there and the conclusion was that the government had gone far too far. I asked if the government could actively look these people up. If you can find them to take money wrongly, you can find them to give them back. They refused. Under the leadership of the Director-General, Jaap Uijlenbroek, it was said: no, no, those people can come to us. I thought that was unfair. It's a shame we have to stand here. Mr. Chairman. During the interview I also wondered why €30,000 tax money was spent to prepare officials and cabinet members for a meeting with MPs. Why is that even happening? Is that because they can tell the parliamentary interrogation committee other stories than they would like? It's about truth finding, isn't it? Why do we do that? I'd like to hear that from the Prime Minister. Why was that necessary and why was it necessary in some kind of day-on-the-hei-training? The interrogation committee speaks of unprecedented injustice. Tens of thousands of parents have lived in hell for years. They were wrongly labeled as fraud by the IRS. And why? In many cases because they had a different nationality. The Tax Administration has profiled ethnically and has used having a second nationality as a selection criterion. And that wasn't allowed at all; that's what Menno Snel said to me when I asked him. They weren't allowed to do that since 2014, but it did. Because so many people came out as fraudsters, the importance of this second nationality grew and became increasingly important. So more and more people were being fished out. It strengthened itself. Of course, the financial problems these families have encountered also caused many emotional problems. People weren't heard for years, not even within their own family. They didn't stand a chance. For the government that should protect them, they were afraid. Really pure fear. Afraid of the next letter that would fall on the doormat. Afraid to make it back to the end of the month. For years, the Tax Administration committed abuse of power and thus made the government inaccessible. Because you should imagine: no €5 to buy a gift for your children, not to be able to go to a children's party. I've been talking to people who have been begging for a debt restructuring process. 'Cause then you'll be done after three years. And they turned them down every time. I spoke to a lady who said: all I could survive was with a gift card from my boss, because all the money was taken from me, so with a gift card I went to the store and paid my bread, my fruit and my vegetables for my children. Sleeping with your kids on bare concrete. There are also people who have heard: you can also work in prostitution. That's just a legal profession, they belonged to the UWV. That the IRS is taking your car while you have a disabled child who has to go to the clinic and can't because of it, that just can't be explained. How can these victims ever trust the government again? What lessons does the cabinet draw from this report, from this criminal act of the Tax Administration? Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the 86 measures, I would first like to consider what has led to them, because there are many misunderstandings about them. I see in the letter that we have received that the hot stuff is getting around. It says, "Policy and execution turned out wrong." That is really just policy language, official language, and that is not true at all. The quality of policies and legislation should be improved and more room should be made for tailor-made work. Bullshit! That's not the essence. The quality of legislation, the service of the government, it's all there. Everything is brought in to distract us from what is really at stake. What really matters, we know. We have had answers to Mr Omtzigt's questions because he and I really miss him sometimes asking questions that we sometimes do not come up with. Because he asked the question: how can we, as a government, spend EUR 4 billion on a large-scale operation without having to face up to what is causing it? Well, on what basis do we do that? Why are we all gonna do this and why are we gonna have to compensate these parents? What did the government do? I'll read the answer quietly. The Secretary of State states on behalf of the Cabinet that it has acted against the law. The final decision on the childcare allowance has not been established in good time. The legal deadline has not been respected or has not been complied with. So we're making a law here and we're saying you'll be answered in six weeks if you object. And at the IRS, it took them 18 months. And in those 18 months, you can't be a parent. You can't move forward or backwards. You just have to wait 'cause you don't have a course of justice. There was no or insufficient justification for the decisions on the award or rejection. So people got a letter saying they weren't entitled to it. Then they didn't know why. That went wrong. It has not been sufficiently clear what information has to be provided. People came up with a file, then they were said "that's not enough" and then they could bring another file. A colleague just said: pieces were held back in court and in front of the people themselves. The files were incomplete. Parents were made unnecessarily difficult or they were not sufficiently able to obtain their entitlement to the supplement. Then last but not least, the withdrawal and recovery of the supplement without investigation. For all the things I've just read, this Chamber has never said anything about legislation in order to do it this way. In fact, the conclusion is that the law has not been complied with. Officials have therefore broken the law. That is why I do not understand the remark that the Chamber would have done anything wrong. I'm always critical of myself. It's okay. I'm looking at my responsibility. But we did not say to civil servants: stop the child care allowance and do not justify it? We did not say to civil servants: do it for 18 months, because then these people will be completely destroyed. I just don't get it. Don't tell me we're meeting the AVG for nothing. If you use information and data from citizens, you have to account for how it is used. You can't just do that on the basis of descent. Of this, our Personal Data Authority has said that two times the law has been broken. I never understand when people say that's kind of your fault, too. Again, I'd like to put on the penance rug as well, if you don't mind. Mr. Chairman. Minister of State Mr Tjeenk Willink said: the power politicians in The Hague have turned in and are mainly working on themselves. They have insufficient regard for the content and social problems we face. If we go to the present, we are currently seeing an implementation organization that squeaks and cracks. I see the hard work and the intention of the Secretary of State. There are a lot of, hundreds of officials working the snot in front of their eyes, but we need to be realistic. The 8,300 reviews are just not gonna work out before the end of the year. We talked about that last week. There's 1,000 of them coming in every week. The Committee on Actual Damage is in danger of succumbing to an avalanche of cases. We also read that the treatment of objections was stopped for a period, because there were too few people. So that's another obstruction of justice. Mr. Chairman. If I look more broadly at the progress of the 86 action points, I can see that it is simply not going well, because the key points on which it went wrong are barely further after six months. Think of the tough recovery policy of the Tax Administration, the discrimination test for legislation and policy and the use of nationality in law and in risk models. I swear I didn't see any of it. As far as the broad screening is concerned, it is all being postponed to the State Committee on Discrimination and to the establishment of the National Coordinator. That's not gonna work. Maybe you shouldn't ask me if it's going well either, but I'm going to take a look at what the BAK, the Administrative Advisory Council on Childcare Allowance, has found. He says: we have been on the road for two years now, but in removing mistrust of the government, no convincing and irreversible steps have yet been taken. If the victims, the parents, of the supplement drama do not see any progress at all, we can debate hundreds of action points here, but that does not bring us much further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an important debate for the parents. They are also watching this debate. They still want to understand why they have been treated as fraud. Reflecting on how that could have happened, it also continues to do part of the justice to the victims of the supplement scandal. Mr. Chairman. It seems a long time ago that the cabinet resigned because of the report Unfamiliar injustice, but it is now important not to lose sight of such issues as implementation, service and quality of legislation. These two parts are my contribution. Mr. Chairman. Politics is about how we can make people's lives better. How exactly we should do that, we often disagree about that, and that's good. But what we cannot disagree about is that we must always serve a basic form of justice. As far as I am concerned, that is the right of people not to be humiliated by the institutions of the State. That basic right not to be humiliated by the government has been violated in the surcharge scandal, and in a terrible way. Mr. Chairman. It is then a human reaction to seek out the perpetrator, because where suffering arises, it is our human instinct to seek out the one that or what we can punish. As difficult as that may be, we must oppose this tendency in this case. That is not because no mistakes have been made, but mainly because many mistakes have been made. For example, by the Tax Administration, where a memo from a lawyer who already stated in 2017 that compensation had to be compensated, disappeared in an inexplicable way. Then so much suffering could have been avoided. And where, as it turns out now, people automatically got the predicate "frauder" for a surcharge debt higher than €3,000 and people were automatically rejected for friendly debt restructuring. A new low! I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. However, mistakes have also been made by the Council of State, which too often supported a harsh interpretation of the law and only turned when social unrest arose. The cabinet and ministries have not picked up signals of harsh effect and the Chamber has not been fully informed on time. And even the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors have indicated that they could have been more alert and assertive. And, Chairman: yes, also the Lower House should look at itself in the mirror. For unprecedented injustice also arises when, as an auditor and co-legislator, we pay too much attention to imaging and too little to the quality of legislation and implementation. I'm thinking about Bulgarian fraud. Then the cabinet was encouraged. "Enter tough fraud policy" while the then Secretary of State said that this would hurt the good of the evils. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely because of an accumulation of errors that I tabled the motion for a parliamentary questioning more than a year ago. We had to get an overall picture, with a view to political responsibilities as well. That is precisely why it is so important today to talk about these dirty issues such as the quality of legislation, good service, sound implementation and the importance of power and counterpower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u12	This is exactly where I always get so annoyed by it. But I'll just actually ask the question. We asked it out very clearly in the interrogation: "the good will suffer the evil ones," what does that mean? What was that supposed to mean? Did you hear that answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u13	No, I did read the reports. I also read what former Secretary of State Weekers said about this. I also fully agree with what Mr Azarkan just said: there was, of course, no causal relationship between them. The debate in the Chamber, a Chamber that insists on tough fraud policy, does not really mean that the Tax Administration has to go beyond the limits of the law. But the result was in this context that the policy was so harsh that the implementation was so harsh, beyond the limits of the law, especially in that group-by-group treatment, that the good were to suffer from the evils.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u14	That's not what that sentence was about. If you take that sentence out of context every time, you create a story that doesn't exist. It was about automatic allocation. It was about whether or not you were getting fees. That's what the Secretary of State said in the debate here, and Nijboer was still there as spokesman... Oh, sorry. I hear I have to correct that. De Groot was a spokesperson. What the Secretary of State meant there was: I'm not gonna award fast, we're gonna check more if someone is entitled to something, and so people will have to wait longer for a supplement to be awarded. That wasn't about getting back, that wasn't about o/gs, that's what it's about. It was about: there will be more control at the front door and for that some people will have to wait a little longer, while they are in good faith. That was what it was about, and then you shouldn't tear it out of context that it's about recovery policy, fraud policy. This was about the recognition of fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u15	Then I think we really disagree, in that group-by-group approach and certainly in those CAF cases. That has also been in several documents of the cabinet. In letters from the cabinet after the Chamber, ministers and State Secretarys have also made explicit statements on several occasions: we are going to go hard on it, but beware, the good ones are going to suffer the evil ones. That was also just in cabinet documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u16	This isn't true. I think this is so bad. It's not true. This has been requested by the parliamentary interrogation committee, extended: what was meant by that? Then what was the 80/20 reasoning? What was under there? It was about awarding, not retrieving. And indeed, it has been told once that there is a CAF team and that there has been an approach to facilitators, but it was never said that all customers would be compared. That wasn't said. We are talking here about the investigation report of the POK, the parliamentary interrogation committee on childcare allowance. And who says, even the Secretary of State thought, and that is what Weekers has also stated, that that statement "the good will suffer the bad" was about waiting longer for a payment to be made. Stick to the facts!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u17	I think we can approach each other now. It is true, that direct relationship between the general statement, which was also in cabinet documents, "the good will suffer the evils," is not directly related to what was in the Tax Administration practice, the 80/20 regime. Mrs Leijten is right about that, but for the fact that the good would suffer the bad in fraud policy, the cabinet and the State Secretary have warned several times. That's gonna stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u18	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr President, this was reflection. I'm going to the cabinet response now and what should change. A key point for GroenLinks is the human image that is used in the design of policies. No one in this room has wanted what these tens of thousands of parents have done to them. But this unsatisfying approach to fraud that led to this suffering is based on a human image, namely that it is apparently acceptable to humiliate people in a crackdown on fraud. And even now, people are being humiliated. Only we don't call them victims and we don't compensate them. Think, for example, of the child of the welfare mother who is not allowed to send a tap to girlfriends because the money she gets is seen as extra income, which gets her mother into trouble. That's humiliating. Whether the enforcers that count people's toothbrushes to see if there is a common household. That's humiliating. Or the migrants who, according to experts, are treated by the IND as fraud if they provide incomplete data. And that too is humiliating. But apparently we still accept that. What lessons of Unfamiliar injustice can we base on them, apply them to them? With what human image, given the conclusions of the POK, should we look at all the other legislation that hits people hard? And what does that mean for future legislation? How do we operationalise the right not to be humiliated in legislation? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u20	A little in addition to the previous interruption. It does keep me a little busy, that careless fraud hunt, but it is actually very crooked. Because you would say: an inconspicuous fraud hunt assumes that you are taking people hard at all levels of society. But here it was mainly, or mostly, single women, as it was called: High Meeting, High Risk, and mostly people with second nationality. So, obviously, if that fraud hunt has already taken place, there is nothing to be afraid of looking for that money, because we have to protect it well, thought: taxpayers' money cannot go to people where it doesn't belong. Can Mr Snels explain why that was specifically this group and this average?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u21	I will come to discrimination in a moment, but Mr Azarkan is right in saying that we meet those who are most vulnerable in our society and are least able to act against that machine of the State if they are humiliated. The same applies to the examples I have just mentioned. I find that a very painful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u22	I'm interested in the explanation, too. Officials go in width. I would like to go along with Mr Snels when it comes to the question, looking at the report, what was the occasion and the circumstances. So I'm gonna take a walk with you. If I did, I would expect that this group of victims wasn't specifically hunted with this profile. I find that hard to explain. Other people, who also make use of the childcare allowance, it is one of the most widely used schemes that had nothing to do with it. They were never asked anything. There are people who wrote in the newspaper: I've never had anything to do with this kind of agency. Then I think: what a life, delicious! When I listen to Mr Snels, I wonder: how does this uncompromising fraud hunt relate to a very selective group of people who have been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u23	That is, of course, one of the most painful aspects of this whole supplement scandal. It has been investigated: is this really discrimination? How is it that we have perhaps started to target fraud policy in a discriminatory way against the most vulnerable people? How come we based our legislation on that? How is it that we treat people who need these social services with mistrust? How come we think they're profiteers? How come we think they're almost automatic fraud? How come in these 170 CAF cases we picked out exactly these kindergarten facilities? How come we have ended up in precisely this group of people in the selection mechanisms? I agree that this is the most painful of this whole scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u25	How does Mr. Snels think it's coming? All those rhetorical questions... Because those are rhetorical questions. I wonder, don't we know the answer? And I ask you, where do you think it came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u26	I think there has been discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u27	Do you think that anyone who looks at all the facts in this file could come to a different conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u28	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u29	I agree with Mr. Snels. I also think that there is clearly discrimination here, and I also think that no one can reach a different conclusion. What is an appropriate response, I should like to ask Mr Snels. We're gonna be meeting about this a lot. We're gonna get a lot of progress reports. We are going to discuss the conclusions of these reports very often. If I may ask a question back in the same rhetorical way: what would be an appropriate response according to Mr Snels and his party?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u30	First of all, we must continue to reflect on exactly what happened. That is what I was talking about. Where exactly did it all go wrong? How did that happen in the institutions of the government? Do we have to compensate these people? That's what the Secretary of State and the Cabinet are doing. I'm still worried about how we're gonna prevent that in the future. I will get back to that in a moment in my speech. I am not reassured that the use of nationality is now excluded and that indirect discriminatory methods, such as risk selection and the use of algorithms, are excluded. I am not comfortable with that, and I am about to ask a number of questions to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u31	Do you have a desired outcome, a desired answer to the questions you ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u32	The desired outcome, well. Frankly, I think an important principle is the right of people not to be humiliated by the institutions of the state. But what's the most important thing in that? The most important article of the Constitution is Article 1. Which institutions should be the first to follow this Constitutional Article as an example? That's the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u34	Indeed my last question. What strikes me often and also now is that we both come to the same conclusion. This is where the first article of our Constitution has been violated. What I rarely hear in this Chamber, and what I hear little from my colleagues, is a firm statement on the next step. What happens if you break the first article of our Constitution, and what happens if the government breaks the first article of our Constitution? I would like to hear a firm statement from you and your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u35	This is tricky. Apparently, Mrs Simons wants to hear certain words from me, but I can't look into her head. Of course, that starts with recognition, the very first thing is that it has to be recognised. The cabinet did so partly in the cabinet response, but I am not confident. It's not over today. We will have to continue to fight to ensure that the government does not discriminate, we will have to continue to fight to ensure that our legislation is based on social principles, we will have to continue to fight to ensure that we do not start to distrust people, but start to trust them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u36	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u37	I also have really specific questions about progress reports and the need for more attention to be paid to implementation and services. That's what we need to invest in. The cabinet is already doing that, but there are also advice to do that much more. My question to the Prime Minister is: is that going to the formation table or does the next budget have any extra money for that? Does the Prime Minister say here: "I recognise that I need to invest more in execution, in human measure, and at that point distance from the VVD election programme which is very easy to cut back on execution?" Mr. Chairman. In the letter, I also noticed: "In the Tax Administration, signals from the past few months have also been regularly discussed with policy makers." That is brought with a certain pride. But how is it that this is apparently not a standard practice in all departments? It makes so much sense. I'd like a response. And, Mr President, I also have a number of questions about the quality of legislation. In a response to the POK, it has been promised that an analysis of how this can work hard for existing legislation will be carried out. How's that going? It has also been promised that new legislation will strengthen the state-wide legislative test. But these tests only apply to a complex law with great societal impact. Is there not a risk for smaller legislation that is less interested? I'd like a response. I also ask for the possibility of better guaranteeing the general principles of good governance in the AWB. This may be the subject of a legislative proposal, and what are the considerations of whether or not to settle this by means of a legislative proposal? Is the AWB above legislation without any hardness clauses? Finally, I am asking for discrimination and nationality. My group has three basic questions. First of all, the ethical use of an algorithm. What exactly is that, an ethical use of an algorithm? What are we going to do about that? The second fundamental question is how we deal in algorithms with variables that may not discriminate directly, but indirectly. I'm thinking of a zip code that strongly correlates with ethnicity. The third question is why the Dutch Data Protection Authority still has so little budget. Why was this not taken up more actively in the context of the POK? Finally, the right not to be humiliated by the institutions of the State. The Prime Minister will recognize it from the political thinker Avishai Margelit. That is what this debate is about. The cabinet has set itself the goal that the surcharge scandal should never happen again. But the political climate is fickle, with a short memory. That's why my final question. In what way will the government, with its 86 measures, continue to be accountable in the coming years? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the members of the interrogation committee, in particular Mr Van Dam, as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u38	Thank you, Mr. Quick. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Last week, during the debate on the recovery operation, I used the following metaphor. The plot of an average story has a clear villain, a clear victim, whether or not held hostage by the villain, a clear hero who is loved, plus a happy ending, but that is different in this story, the story of the supplemental affair. The plot of the supplemental affair has several villains, one worse than the other, and the heroes, who now have to save the victims, are there they were themselves the villains first. In total, more than 140,000 victims are in sight, and that is becoming more and more every day. Nearly 1% of our population are victims of the system. A system with a human image that Mrs Leijten and Mr Snels discussed earlier as distrustful. Mistrust as a starting point. Many arrangements have now been rigged, but the recovery operation has been tough from the very beginning, probably because mistrust is still a starting point. While the group is getting bigger and bigger, the core of the KOT parents, the very very first group of seriously damaged family parents, has not even begun. Some parents are still in the same crushing machine, heavily damaged, but not yet recognized. This deprives them of the right of access to any form of aid. These people simply have the right to access that right. But the situation of the well-known victims is also often poignant. There are still children not home. There are families who have to live with five of €70 a week. They are in danger of drowning in plain sight of the port. It is because of their strength, their survival drive, their creativity and their surroundings that they have not yet drowned. No thanks to the government, which should be helping them. The approach of the government, which the Secretary of State is responsible for, is not working. Fortunately, the Secretary of State himself sees that. After an operation, a rehabilitation process often starts. In our view, we are in this together with BEL1........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It's okay if that process of healing comes at the centre. To give the healing process a chance, victims must have the confidence that the government will assist them from now on, unconditionally on their side. Trust in the government, in the cabinet. For example, I would like to come to the thorough report, and I would like to thank you once again for that. Unfamiliar injustice of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance. In the report, we were able to read where it went wrong. The core is a gross violation of fundamental principles of the rule of law and a politically motivated lack of information. I mentioned it earlier: the Tax Administration is becoming a rücksichtslose crusher and the unprecedented waterfall of destruction of human value. The cross-generational suffering. Mr President, now I come to the heart of this debate. This machine could thrive well in the administrative culture of the Cabinets-Rutte. Except the Ruttedoctrine doesn't fit into a house of healing. In response to the POK and the resignation of the cabinet, improvement was promised. A radically different board style. The Prime Minister's future depended on that. He tied it to it himself. Six months after this promise, I wonder, did I miss something? That could be a good idea. Is it still coming? Doesn't look like it. Or is this behavior the Ruttedoctrine in optima forma? Last year the Chamber said to the Secretary of State several times: solve it, it goes too slowly, do it faster. But only when it became a political problem, when the future of the cabinet was hanging by a thread, did the cabinet decide to withdraw the wallet and pay the injured €30,000. Maybe with good intentions, but unpacking as quick and dirty, especially dirty and not really quick. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte, as group chairman of the VVD, embraces all but truly all the conclusions of the report. Mr Rutte as Prime Minister does not do that. He does not acknowledge that "the provision of information to the Chamber" is "in several cases inspired by the desired legal or political outcomes, resulting in the poor, partial, delayed or non-departure of information." In stories about Jekyll and Hyde, schizophrenia is a good thing, but in the raw reality of the supplemental affair and the misery of the parents such a double attitude is the example of the Ruttedoctrine. Person and doctrine coincide here. Does the person Rutte see this problem? Does he acknowledge that this is problematic and that, as long as he is the personification of that double, he is and remains the emperor without clothes of trust? Or does he really not get it? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The parents called on the cabinet on 12 January in a letter in the Volkskrant: go away and don't come back. The cabinet did leave, but Rutte never had another term in question. In the light of our experience of function elsewhere, sensitizing Omtzigt, the truth about the hidden memo-Palms, I think back to the resignation of the cabinet as a unique spectacle, the only theatre that remained open in the corona crisis. The Ruttedoctrine is still present, still going strong. I have three examples. I have more, but for the sake of time I limit myself. In the Wob documents on granules, the cabinet has still started working on the paint marker. One of the journalists who revealed the premium affair will soon be in court because he still does not have full access to certain Wob documents. Another Wob example, really recent. Since December 2020, there has been a Wob request about export support from a fossil project in Mozambique. Six months later, well beyond all deadlines, the cabinet has still not taken a decision on public disclosure. Can the Prime Minister at least promise to do that before the recess? Mr President, I shall continue. In future, the cabinet would better fill in Article 68 of the Constitution. That was the promise and that was perhaps the most radical. Strange that a promise to respect the Constitution should be a radical promise. The day before yesterday, however, Minister Ollongren came up with thirteen identified points, which fall within the interest of the State, allowing exceptions to the new administrative culture. For example, exceptional reasons include ongoing negotiations, the importance of control, inspection, monitoring. What do you mean, new radical governance culture? The emperor has no clothes on. It has to be said. So we are far from convinced that the cabinet really looks at the citizens differently, as long as the Ruttedoctrine rules. I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to answer this question and take a look at this schizophrenia, that he is indeed not wearing any clothes, that he is naked here and that there is no trust. Who knows? Maybe this will be a radical afternoon. We'll see. Mr. Chairman. The whole recovery operation is in danger of stalling and the cabinet is looking for a way that works. The Secretary of State has spoken to parents, so have we. Actually, the parents say, take us seriously, we know what we need. Not all parents, but most parents really know what they need. Why don't we see that in the approach? That led me to the question whether these parents are really trusted, whether the approach is still motivated by deep and persistent distrust of the citizens. That is why it is so important for the Prime Minister to set an example. That he has the insight that that double statement cannot, that it does not contribute to confidence. I'm gonna finish up, Mr. Chairman. The Financieele Dagblad wrote: "The summer gives time and space for the reset. Society goes from a strict lockdown to vigilant relaxation, the politics of a semi-permanent state from excitement to concussion on call. The formation goes into oyster mode and summer sleep." These friendly prospects in the FD therefore apply to almost everyone in the Netherlands, but not to the victims of the supplementing affair. And that's why we're wondering: can the parents be free for a while? Can the best and the brightest sitting here contribute to what I would almost call a "extravagance" for the parents? Can they be left alone for six weeks unless there's good news to report to those parents? Leave it alone for six weeks. Can the Prime Minister make sure that at least before the summer they have no bailiffs, no hassles, no... Yes, leave it alone; you can also go on vacation. Can the Prime Minister take care of that? And perhaps we should choose to double the living money for those under control? Just, vacation money, because they earned it. Mr. Chairman. Last week Mr Van Dijk rightly improved me when I drew the parallel with the rescue of KLM, which had to take place at all costs according to the Minister of Finance. I said the parents too, the victims should be saved at all costs. But Mr Van Dijk rightly said: that is not 'for what it costs', but that is 'whatever it takes' and 'put everything on everything'. That's exactly right. Healing must be central, with whatever it takes. Without Rutte... Doctorine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I'll never forget that guest lecture of the then General Director of the Tax Administration a year or so ago. Remarkably triumphantly he explained how the Tax Administration handled data-driven and risk-driven fraud very efficiently and hard, first with companies and wealthy people who had settled money abroad and later also with ordinary, unsuspecting citizens. He told almost laconically how the Tax Administration went to the top of the court, even though they knew it was wrong in 20% of the cases, he said, but in 80% of the cases, according to the famous 80/20 rule, which turned out to be earlier 20/80. I never forgot this guest lecture. In addition to this rather triumphant and complacent story I noticed a number of things. It was more about the system than people. There was a blind confidence in data- and risk-driven works and a rather instrumental look at people, witnessing the praises of the now grotesquely failed large departure scheme at the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. When the surcharge scandal turned out to be of ever greater proportions than previously assumed, I repeatedly caught myself thinking: yes, logically, when a public service is run in this way, without human size, without heart, without paying attention to the bells of its own employees such as Mr Niessen or internal notes such as Mrs Palmen's. How does the cabinet, the prime minister, intend to work on a climate in which the sounds of Mr Niessen and Mrs Palmen are being heeded? In preparation for this debate last Sunday we received an extra supplement edition in the mail of Trouw, a must-read. Again, Tom's cartoon of the government as a big giant without a head, the briefcase Children's allowance affair firmly in the hand with nothing to worry about, while parents and children are ground under his big feet. Again I found the interview with Eva González Pérez, who, with determination and a great sense of justice, got the supplement scandal rolling, about a system, about a culture of discrimination that was already wrong from the beginning, from 2005, and not just from Bulgarian fraud. Above all, I was once again struck by all those stories of duped parents: in the newspaper, but also in the council room, on the phone, in the mail and via WhatsApp. And yes, that depends on a system. And yes, that depends on a culture. And yes, that depends on people and so much more. But how can the government over and over and over again go to the courts to plead an unjust case, while the government is there from and for citizens? I still can't reach it with my head. As I said in my maiden speech, when I was growing up on an island, the government was at a distance. Sometimes you had to wait a long time for the government and yes, sometimes she worked against you, but in the end you knew: the government, you can count on it; she won't fool you, she won't betray you, she won't trample on you. Or, in the words of Augustine: without justice and justice, a government does not differ from a robber gang. I always had faith in that government. Because we have a rule of law, don't we? We have guarantees against injustice, don't we? She's not a robber's gang, is she? Mr. Chairman. That perhaps childish trust in the government is gone with me, but much worse, with so many parents who have been tricked, who have been betrayed and trampled by their own government. More often than on average, it is about people who need government regulations and fees anyway. They're the ones who've been put in the cold the most. It is precisely them that we ask for the most bureaucratic skills. They are the ones who have suffered most from the distrust of the government. This is not only unprecedented injustice, it also causes removal, an ever-increasing gap in our society. Mr. Chairman. Almost every week more misery comes to light. Yesterday, an ADR report was published explaining that wrongly border amounts were applied on the basis of which someone got the stamp o/gs, intent/great debt. In other words: if you received a recovery of more than €3,000, you were automatically a fraud and you did not get a payment arrangement. And why? For reasons of efficiency. And that's not right. You're not making that up, are you? This is yet another example of an anything but serviceable government that distrusts citizens or, at best, finds it difficult. We must do justice here, and we must do it now. Can the Secretary of State reflect on this recent report? How did this happen? And how else is she gonna do this? Mr. Chairman. All this also requires self-reflection. It forces us to draw firm lessons for the future. I would like to make three further points in the course of my speech. What's it gonna take to make the recovery go smoothly? What does it take to change the system? And what does it take to become another government with a heart and face? First of all, that self-reflection. The surcharge affair gives reasons to look in the mirror as servants of the public interest, especially here in this house. Even though, of course, we have never called for an unlawful act of government here, it has not gone beyond us. It has happened because of the political choices made here, including by my group, by not listening to the opinions of the Council of State, for example on the lack of a hardness clause and on the difference between fraud and a mistake. That self-reflection must lead to action. We need to become more resistant to hypes, and listen to advisors better and faster. We need to realise that we are first and foremost co-legislator and ask out loud whether there are laws to be implemented and whether there is sufficient discretionary space in them. Mr. Chairman. We want the parents to have the real recovery they deserve, after the government has failed so badly, yes, acted unjustly. Unfortunately, we are now seeing the recovery operation stall in implementation. The current flat-rate system works for virtually nobody really well, and that is not what parents are waiting for. The Secretary of State asked the Chamber to think along. We think it would be good if a smart think tank kept this under review in all freedom. I tabled a motion this morning to involve that great knowledge and involvement from outside, from damage experts to lawyers, and first and foremost, of course, the doomed parents. Mr. Chairman. After unprecedented injustice, it is not only necessary to do justice to the victims of an unjust and unbearable government, but also a moment to establish a robust and just system. Much of the tax injustice, certainly not everything, but a lot of the excess over the last few years, could have been avoided, for example, if childcare had been so cheap that no surcharges were needed. The supplement system has not only worked out unjustly, it is not just complicated and it does not just require too much bureaucracy from citizens. As a result of previous austerity rounds, it is also rapidly suffering from a fall in poverty and therefore a risk of debt. Did you estimate a little more gross income than before? Then until years later, you can be confronted with recovery by the Tax Administration. And then all those variables you have to monitor as a hard-working resident of a rental house. Isn't my rent too high? Isn't my income too high? Can I even apply for a rent allowance? Is the hourly rate of my childcare even below the ceiling that the government pays? Due to all the fluctuations in my income as a zzp'er or employee with a flex contract, does the review income for the Tax Administration correspond to the preliminary assessment? Et cetera, et cetera. Even a trained fiscalist for many years has difficulty answering all these questions quickly and adequately. Mr. Chairman. That much is clear: the surcharge system must be abolished. The cabinet response to Unfamiliar injustice is really too cautious about this. However, the Bruins/Van Weyenberg motion, of December 2019 again, was clear and was adopted unanimously. The system must end. Instead, we need a higher minimum wage, higher benefits and a refundable tax discount per household. In the meantime, the cabinet has mapped out several variants, covering both the supplement scheme as a whole and the future childcare scheme. The latter was in response to the Segers motion. My questions are as follows. Are there really well worked out alternatives ready for formation now? Does the Prime Minister really want to get rid of the surcharges, as he said in previous debates? Will the Cabinet make every effort and prepare for the rapid and careful introduction of an alternative system? I'd like a reaction to that. The cabinet, like us, wants to work on a just, simple and similar tax system. To a system that contributes to living the good life, with the government as an ally with a heart and a face? And, Mr President, I would also like to touch on my last lesson here, namely that we need to work on a truly reliable government, a government with a heart and a face. Contact with the government has been increasingly digitised in recent years. Of course that has advantages and for many people that works fine, but something has to go wrong, and you can lose your way; then this digital service is suddenly a dramatic digital maze. My group believes it is very important that there is always a knowledgeable employee who can speak to the people. Not a computer, but a human being of flesh and blood. That is why there must be physical points of contact available, and there must be a direct telephone number on each letter of a treating official, someone with knowledge, who also has the mandate to actually help people. This does not, of course, have to be done with every monthly supplement note, but when it comes to decisions and appeals and appeals, there must always be direct contact with a competent handler. The Temporary Commission for Implementing Organisations also makes recommendations in this direction. My questions are: how does the cabinet view this; how do they intend to put a human dimension back into the service of the government? I'm considering a motion on this point. So far, given the time in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. There is an interruption by Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u43	Yes. I should like to congratulate Mr Grinwis on the fact that last year a motion was adopted by my fellow Members Mr Futselaar and Mr Van Raak, who says that in contact with the government it must always be human. Unfortunately, the government has not yet sent this motion to our direction, so perhaps we can ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u44	Well, that's a good idea. And actually, I should have known that all good things had been invented once before. So I'm gonna look up that motion, and I'm gonna look up the execution note, if there is one. And if it has not been properly executed, then the seed has been sprinkled in order to make a firm statement about this in the second term, and then together as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A tax administration, senior officials, a judiciary, a cabinet and a chamber. All of them, and so have we, have played a role in the unprecedented injustice that parents have suffered in the child allowance affair. That is why I hope that, after this debate, we will feel a little more than we have so far: it has not been for nothing. That we get answers to our questions to box K in such a way that they make us feel as a Chamber: this file has been woken up, and we are now taking steps again; steps in the area of self-reflection and steps that are going to prevent such abuses towards the future. What makes it difficult is that the PwC report on the Palmen note is not yet there, and that the Committee of Inquiry has yet to begin its investigations. The letter on the progress report parliamentary interrogation committee Children's care allowance gives some good clues for the future, but they are only plans, in pencil, on paper. And we're gonna have to keep the cabinet on this. However, as far as the CDA is concerned, progress on these issues should therefore become a permanent topic of discussion for the coming years. 'Cause it can't go down or become a side issue. Still, there's enough to talk about today. Because being new in this Chamber presents some challenges. You have to dig into a lot of substantive files like crazy, because you want to be able to add enough value to the citizen from day forward. And we have some very good and experienced parliamentarians in this Chamber, who set the bar high for us. But that is also good, because striving for that level ensures a high average level. And as a newcomer, I think the newcomers are here 99 days today, just not the famous 100 days to look back. I still want to share some observations that I believe can and should be improved. Not for me, but for our citizens. And if I'm gonna make an argument about what I expect from the other, I'm gonna have to start with an initial observation about ourselves. What I get back a lot from my environment is: you're just profiling yourself and tearing each other apart, to get better yourself. And whether I agree with that or not, this is how many citizens are looking at us. And in the end, in a democracy, the citizen is always right. Then another observation. A few weeks ago, oral questions were asked by the SP following an article on the issue of the Palmen Note in the relevant week of June 2019. Only a small fragment of the total horror film called the "childcare allowance affair," but one of the defining scenes. A response from the cabinet has been requested, and it comes 30 seconds before the debate on this issue. We may then quickly read and respond, in other words, the process of arriving at that letter and all the double checks that are done internally before we as a Chamber get them are apparently more important than informing us in good time. Just that way of working I unfortunately see that very often within this house.... makes me really pissed. Everyone knows that MPs have to do it with limited support. I believe that there is a role for the cabinet to do this information better and to think about a process that does more justice to the position of the Chamber. Another observation, about the approach to the recovery operation itself. And yes, maybe this belongs in another debate. We discussed this in detail last Thursday. The progress on this dossier says something about culture. First of all, I see a strong and constructive cooperation between Members of Parliament. There are differences in thinking about how, but above all there is a common goal. Mr Van Raan also referred to it, namely, whatever it takes, we have to help the doomed parents. This requires money, but above all administrative will. I see a Secretary of State who also wants to make progress on this dossier, but lets intervene on the signals from the Chamber. Just for the record: look at the motions tabled during the previous debate on progress and look at what has been done with it. The Chamber has been underestimating the operation for months. Parents also often come up with these signals on the line. And really not just to complain, but to think with. Can you imagine? They've been duped. Some have been broken down all the way to the ankles, thrown away as a fraud, financially undressed and evicted. Their children suffer greatly from it. But they still say, "Let us think along and let us solve it together." I am really proud of our citizens and a little less of ourselves as politicians. Then compliance with Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act. The cabinet asks for understanding for several times not to inform the Chamber in advance about expenses. It's been a crazy year, and so we have to accept that all of a sudden we're not talking about the money anymore. In fact, that is what the cabinet is doing to silence us on that part. There has also been a number of extensive discussions with the cabinet on this issue. I hope that the cabinet will be able to regain our trust by sending that note in advance from now on. That brings me to the next point, because I predict that there will be much more misery in the coming years. Past decisions can lead to the dramas of today. Troubleshooting then can cause problems if you don't adjust. This is also the subject of the conclusions of the final report of the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations. This shows that we have neglected implementation for many years, that problems with implementation are not detected in time or that there is insufficient action, and finally, that we are having difficulty in achieving feasible policies in terms of human standards at all. And this while implementing agencies should serve our citizens. The structural errors in the implementation and systems also emerge because the world is becoming more transparent and people are becoming more empowered. Fortunately, the control of parts also gets better and better. If one of these mistakes comes up again, what kind of glasses are we gonna put on? How do we look at reality at that moment? I do not expect a look and attitude of denial of the cabinet, an attitude of "it's all okay," an attitude of good talk. I expect a primary attitude of urgency, from the bottom to the bottom to find out exactly what is going on and how we can solve it as quickly as possible. I sincerely hope that the new trade-K will be selected on this basic attitude of looking at life, with glasses of critical looking at yourself, able to look beyond the importance of a possible coalition. Because if we have to send home a cabinet every time as something from the past or what has been going on for years, again, I expect a few more of those moments, the Netherlands will become completely unmanageable. Finally, the legal protection of citizens, something that we must not overlook in this debate. The ADR report that we received yesterday proves once again that the disabled parents of the childcare allowance, but also of other allowances and even blue tax debts, had no chance against the Tax Administration. Without further investigation, they were labeled as fraud. The question that comes to mind here is, how the hell did this happen? Who ordered this? I'd like a reaction to that. How are we going to ensure that citizens who face the tax authorities are protected? My group put forward an idea for this last year, namely the setting up of a tax ombudsman. I want to sharpen that idea even further today. Before that, I was inspired by the idea of the Taxpayer Advocate Service, the TAS as it is called in the US. The cases in which this service operates are as follows: This happens if the problem leads to financial difficulties for the taxpayer, his family or his company. This happens when there are immediate, imminent, negative consequences. This happens when an attempt has been made to get in touch with the Tax Administration, but it did not succeed or no response was received on the promised date. Finally, when there are particular facts or legal circumstances and the Tax Administration uses a "one size fits all" approach, it does not listen and does not realise that a new approach is needed in this case. When you hear this, I think everyone understands that such assistance could have prevented a lot of misery. That is why we call for research to be carried out into the design of a body capable of providing direct tax assistance to citizens and businesses. I mean a body where tax authorities can also send out confidential signals, and which reports to the Chamber on the signals received. We can organise this together already. That helps us as a room to better control and act. I will table a motion on this later. Mr President, I shall conclude. "I don't trust people anymore; that's what people I've ever trusted taught me." Do you know that statement? Sometimes we are those people who once trusted the citizen and we are the people who have betrayed trust. I wonder if this debate will allow us to increase the confidence of our citizens in politics and the cabinet, but also in us, in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van Aalst and Mr Van der Lee, Mrs Belhaj, Mrs Leijten, Mrs Kuik, and forgetting one more. That's Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. I knew I had to have four last names with "van." I must conclude with Mr Van Dam. That's also a "van." He was, of course, chairman. I would not forget to thank Jeroen Freriks, who is here as committee clerk, and through him all the staff of the committee. They have done extremely important work in our democracy. That didn't put them in the cold clothes. Some of them really crawled under the skin, that's how I've seen them up close. As a committee, they've been getting things that I didn't expect to come up with. And that's when not even everything is above the table. Mrs Leijten has rightly made comments on this. On 20 January 2020, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance spoke to the deceased parents. They apologized. I must say that I have become more and more aware of this feeling: what are these excuses really worth? Look at where we're standing now. Last week we issued another external report on behalf of the cabinet itself. Mrs Van Dijk was just talking about it. That report had two very important main conclusions. One: in the way things are going, it is going to take far too long and it is unacceptable to both the social and the parents. Two: the organisation that is there cannot offer what parents and children need most, namely personal attention and guidance. They have mental problems. Let's say you have to go to school, get a job, get a divorce: that's not what the whole supplement execution organization is equipped to do. So this is one and a half years after that apology and much later after the excuses of former Secretary of State Snel. I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance what they have done personally over the past year to compensate those parents, to help them out of the fire, to help those families. If the highest people in our democracy, even though we are Members of Parliament, or at least the cabinet members, apologize, then that obliges us to do something. I've started to wonder more and more: what have they done personally? I would also ask for a reflection on this today. We've seen Minister's Council minutes. They had more to do with saving their own asses than finding solutions for their parents. That's what we have to conclude. Mr. Chairman. I pointed out earlier: the PvdA never supported the Donner Committee; Omtzigt was also critical of it, especially of the results. So I'm not okay with that. Why not? Because it would take a lot of time. It's also been extended. In the end, it has led to a very complicated, predictable solution with all the lawyers and I do not know what, but which was not a solution for the people in practice. That's exactly what happened. There have been years lost and the parents are in the deep shit. If you look at where we are now, we have this morning I don't know how many motions are tabled as Chambers, then actually say left to right: how things are now, things are not going well. It's gonna take too long. If you're divorced, there won't be a solution. If there are debts, then one gets forgiven while the other with the same debts gets nothing at all. I myself tabled a motion this morning which cannot be explained and which is going to cause problems. That's one way to call a whole sadness of misery, and it's not going to be solved. I ask the cabinet: when is that going to happen? 'Cause this is gonna take years. Everyone will now say that this is unacceptable, but if it continues in this way, it will. Mr. Chairman. I found the interrogations deceptive. Officials who don't remember a lot, who, if they saw anything, didn't actually ring the bell, except for one, which I'm about to come up with. Directors who were not aware at all that under their responsibility the rule of law was being violated and therefore did not intervene. Mrs Palmen, whom I found a compelling questioning, who actually outlined in 2017 what was going on, what was going on, that it was unacceptable. Apparently, nothing happened to that in the department. One had the function to bring it up but it was simply muffled away, thrown away, put aside. Nothing happened to it. How is that possible? And then the discrimination hasn't even been investigated by this interrogation committee. It is one of the major scandals of our rule of law that has discriminated against the Tax Administration which has so much power. That is what a parliamentary survey is about, and who knows what else will come out of it. Mr. Chairman. You have to conclude, whatever the Van Dam Committee's report concludes, that the rule of law shakes on its foundations. This applies to the functioning of the civil service. This applies to the functioning of rulers. The same applies to the functioning of the courts. For me personally, that was always very important; I was indirectly involved because I was a financial spokesman and we also had a tax spokesman at that time when we were a little bigger. Then I always thought, when judges make judgments, they look very closely at the personal circumstances, whether it's reasonable, if someone has cheated. In retrospect, we must conclude that the Council of State did not do so. That's what they've concluded on their own. But that is something that I always do as a Member of Parliament, that you think that when a judge has said in the highest instance that something is reasonable and fair, it also works out that way. That was not true, however. The question is what is being done about it. We have received some more information promises from the cabinet but the implementation organisations have still not become more human. Of course, you can't do that in a day. I get that. I spoke to a colleague this morning who said: we had a time when the UWV fines were higher than in criminal law. That's a few years ago, but it's illustrative. In the end, that has been reversed, but that is still the attitude that has crept into a great deal of our social security. And that needs to be aborted, and progress must be made. However, I do not see enough progress. The Prime Minister has said a bit in a slightly different role: I have some radical proposals. But there was actually a kind of Ombudsman 2.0 out there, about which the Ombudsman, a little bit freely translated, said: go read my own reports first and get on with it seriously, because then you're already a long way off. But that's not enough, of course. The motion Klaver/Ploumen is also there for some time. I ask the Cabinet to implement all these elements, such as the dismantling of discriminatory algorithms, investment in implementing organisations and strengthening legal aid. I would also refer to the motion by the SP and the Animal Party on a telephone number, on a human approach based on trust. That's gonna take a lot. We need to take active action on this. I'm asking both rulers to do the same. That's really important. The third point is quite a key point, namely the supplement system itself. That's gotta be on the shovel. That's not easy. I believe that immediately. In fact, I'm sure of it. But that has to do with a vision of your welfare state. The PvdA Group has made such a big point of raising the minimum wage in the election campaign for a reason. That's linked to the benefit, so if you don't increase it, of course you can't get rid of the benefits, because people are financially dependent on them. That's why it's so important. That's why we made such a big point towards the CDA that we didn't want to. That is why it is so important to reduce the care premium. If you lower the care premium, you don't need a supplement to pay that premium anymore. There is a market thinking, an ideology, from the 1990s behind the Scientific Institute for the CDA: you need to feel what you pay and what care costs. But if you want to get rid of this misery, for example, you have to cut the premium by half or by 70%. There are variations, but then you have to make those choices. I don't see those choices being made. In fact, the country's largest party has no plans at all to abolish the surcharges. I'll be intruding on that, Mr. Chairman. That's impossible, isn't it? You can't have such a mess and then make no proposals for those fundamental questions? I can see other colleagues doing that. We have the proposals. The Christian Union, D66 and the SP have made proposals for it, so it's really not like nobody does that here. I shall return to that in a moment of interruption, Mr President. Finally, Mr President. So I am really asking both ministers what they have done personally over the last six months to avoid this misery for parents. In fact, I hope that in a year's time the cabinet did not resign: the excuses were made on 20 January 2020 and the cabinet resigned again on 15 January 2021: what is the value of the resignation of a cabinet? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you. Before you walk away, there is an interruption by Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u50	I was trying to keep up with what has been said about tens of thousands of civilians who have been destroyed, the Donner Commission which was not a good one, the excuses from the summit in the Netherlands that were only made to save their own ass, judges who are not entirely correct in the justice process and the Council of State who does not want to revoke it. Can you give me a reason why we shouldn't call this corrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u51	Firstly, I believe that corruption must also have a financial self-interest. I think that is one of the most important conditions. I didn't see that anywhere, so that's the first thing. Secondly, I have said that the rule of law shakes on its very foundations. That's a firm statement. That's the qualification I'm giving it. I have not seen anyone who was self-enriched or otherwise greatly favoured himself with it. So I think this is a qualification that is needed in the case of corruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u52	That is true, but the broad definition of corruption is the abuse of power, of government power in this matter. You could call that corruption. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u53	No, I don't agree with you. I have previously qualified it as an abuse of power by the Tax Administration towards people, because people have been completely destroyed by the power that the Tax Administration had. So they've abused their power. I support that qualification. I still think so. But that doesn't mean I think that's corruption, because I don't. I think it was an abuse of power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u54	So that's because we have a different definition, but in fact we mean the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u55	Well, I find abuse of power very serious, but if there is reason to believe that someone has enriched themselves and been corrupt, I will not fail to say so. But I haven't been able to establish that, even on the basis of the interviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, I have taken up the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance again. Although I already knew the content of course, there was a lot written about it and spoken about it, I was once again stunned and disheartened about what is in it. The basic principles of the rule of law have been violated, the information system is lousy, and I could go on for a long time. But the worst part is that a lot of families, parents and children, have been wronged. And fighting injustice is one of the most important tasks we have in politics. Especially when it comes to vulnerable people, we must do everything we can to combat injustice. It's not gonna happen on its own. The surcharge affair also shows us the facts in this respect. We may think that we have arranged everything well and that we are putting in place the right legislation, but in the meantime we may lose sight of the concrete impact on people. As a policy, this also fits the hand in its own bosom. That is why I am pleased that the Chamber itself is also working to prevent this kind of totally wrong turn-offs, for example by paying more attention to the evaluation of laws and, indeed, it was also a call from Mr Omtzitzit by putting more time and energy into dealing with legislative proposals. In this respect, we really need to look in the mirror ourselves and do so in the coming years. There are no excuses for that. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Van Dam Committee once again from this place for the many work. In response to the report they have written, even the cabinet has resigned. And although that was not the committee's commitment, it shows the seriousness of the matter. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten from this place, I think it is appropriate to mention Mr Azarkan, even though he has now been removed from the Chamber for the great role they have played in exposing the problems we are discussing here. Mr. Chairman. Dozens of actions have been launched in response to the premium affair. This includes many new teams, agencies and contact points: Stella teams, Stella Light teams, customized work places. Indeed, it is essential to bridge the gap between public authorities and citizens and businesses. Windows and so on are needed for this. I hope to say something about this later, but at the same time I think it is important that we do not build up a web of bodies, thereby creating the risk of people getting lost in a maze and thereby widening the gap. Hence my question to the Prime Minister whether he can reflect on this. Are we now calling for a framework for a more accessible government, or are we threatening to get back into a maze of agencies? And how do we use existing bodies, and how do we strengthen them? I am thinking, for example, of the Ombudsman and the Legal Loket. Locks where citizens and businesses can speak of flesh and blood can also restore a lot of confidence. Mr Grinwis talked about it and Mr Leijten interrupted it, so I think it would be a good idea to make some statements about it as a Chamber in the second term. In the past, I have asked for it in all the tax debates in the context of tax offices. As far as follow-up actions are concerned, I read that this month a support point is being opened up in Terneuzen, in Zeeland, where citizens can go for physical assistance in tax and surcharge cases. That's a good thing. Let me give you that compliment here too. I hope it's true that now that there's one sheep over the dam, there's more to follow. At the same time, I also have the question of what this follow-up looks like. Are there any more physical counters on the scroll? And, if so, where and when? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the cost. The cost of the settlement is high. Then I look not so much at the cost of recovery for the ruined families, but at the cost of all the plans proposed by the cabinet. These are often large posts, which often have to be filled out in more detail. For example, hundreds of millions are spent on information management and active disclosure. The House has agreed to the corresponding budgets, but I would like to be promised that the Chamber will be kept informed of the details of the budgets. Because we have to stop us from fleeing into systems. We shouldn't do that. As far as I am concerned, we must strive for more simplicity and more human contact, because that is what Dutch society really needs. Mr. Chairman. The report shows that things have gone wrong in several places. There are points of improvement for both the Cabinet and the Chamber. But the case law is also addressed in the report. I find it difficult to go into too much detail, also in view of the separation of powers, but it seems good that the SGP should improve the dialogue between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Perhaps we could also involve the implementing bodies. Dialogue will help to speed things up and prevent missed persons such as the premium affair in the future. This does not necessarily require a new framework, because the Council can play an important role in the case-law. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he is prepared to discuss with the Justice Council how to strengthen the dialogue between the judiciary, the cabinet and the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. If we have learned anything lately, it is that high expectations that do not come true do little good and that hope for quick solutions sometimes let me just say: mostly vain hope. I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. We all want help from the disabled parents and children as soon as possible. And it's been a long time. But at the same time, it doesn't help parents if promises are not kept. In fact, that only causes more pain and more disappointments. In the latest progress report, childcare allowance had to be revised again by helping fewer parents than expected. The questions I would like to put to the Secretary of State are as follows. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we should be careful with the creation of expectations and that sometimes it is better to say honestly that it takes longer than to disappoint parents by unfulfilled promises? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that there is a more realistic planning that parents and we, as politicians, can really count on? How can we prevent solutions that are presented with a lot of tamtam from meeting expectations? I am thinking, for example, of the Catshuis regulation. It seemed as if parents could finally be helped quickly and well, but then there were problems, for example with creditors. This has now been dealt with in an artificial way, but this means that parents who have suffered €100 or €200 will also receive €30,000 and will have to deal directly with all the problems, while the really poignant and complicated situations will have to wait longer. The chance of the same happening to measures which the Cabinet intends to take in the context of, for example, the information system and the strengthening of counter-power is considerable. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore how he reduces the bloated expectations here. And how do we prevent a new report with similar conclusions in a few years' time, even though there are good intentions in the cabinet and in everyone involved? And above all: how is the Chamber kept informed of the state of play of all actions? Will the Prime Minister, for example, send the Chamber a progress report every six months? Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of my speech I said that combating injustice is one of the most important tasks of politics. Unrighteousness is not solved overnight. And it also constantly calls on all of us to fight injustice. It is a persistent problem that we will never get out of the world. And yet we have to work on it. It is a duty of the Cabinet and the Chamber to be constantly alert to this, on whatever file it is. But it is also a task of the Cabinet and Chamber to restore the great injustice that has been done to the parents that this is about. Again, let's not run into systems. Let's strive for simplicity and a human face.Just real people who are in contact with each other from the Dutch government towards our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kat van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Parents have been wronged in no way. They haven't had a chance for years. The fundamental principles of the rule of law have been violated; a charge of implementation, legislator and case law. The provision of information to the government is inadequate. As a result, the Chamber has not always received correct, complete and timely information. Mr. Chairman. I repeat the harsh and correct conclusions of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance, because we must not forget them. Now we will not forget this either, given the letter we received yesterday on the unfair use of the qualification 'intention/great debt'. The definition of intent and gross guilt as reprehensible sloppy, serious negligence is also a striking definition of how the government has acted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u60	Of course, Mrs Kat was not there herself, with those 99 days, just like Mrs Inge van Dijk. But last year we got the final Donner report, and then there was a compensation scheme. In that compensation scheme, it was decided not to make o/gs, set-up/greater debt worth compensation. How does D66 look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u61	So yesterday we received that letter. It is clear: there have just been incredibly unlawful mistakes. That just shouldn't have happened. At the moment, the recovery operation is looking at the current arrangements, which need to be further developed. That is why we really need to ask the central question with each other how we are really going to help these parents, these children and these young people. This is more than just a sum of money, which is also about broad support in all kinds of different habitats, including from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u62	What matters to me is that last year, after those excuses had already been made by Mr Hoekstra and Mr Rutte, and when the Secretary of State had yet to take office and Donner was still doing research, it was long known that this o/gs really led to goosebumps. But there was an arrangement that didn't qualify that as a mistake, illegal. It was said: no, that was the hardness of the law; people only get their money back. It was the room that had to fight for it. There was no room for the coalition, the opposition had to do so, either through the majority of the Senate or the minority of the Senate. That's been a hell of a fight. What is the point of D66, that the government knows that it is not true, but that it has come up with a compensation scheme that is simply rambling on all sides?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u63	As a new MP, it is my job not only to look at my co-legislative task, but also to check the cabinet. For example, I tabled a motion this morning, along with your colleague, Mr Alkaya, not to follow the advice of the cabinet when it comes to child regulation, but to take the full advice of children and young people. That motion was rejected by the cabinet. You will see that I have a constructive attitude, especially to see how we can really help these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u64	I will be brief: I am concerned. I remember the fight last year. I also know the people involved, including your colleague and your predecessor on this subject, Mr Van Weyenberg. I am therefore concerned that it is now negotiating and that D66 does not really look back on that time, as being: yes, that was actually wrong. Because how are we going to get something for a new governance culture this summer: you have to look at the people, look at the situation and don't assume that you're keeping things small. Anyway, I'm sure they'll have that debate too. That battle was after the parliamentary interrogation committee's investigation period and that was quite a fight. We took care of that back then. But it wasn't nice, it wasn't good either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u66	May I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yes, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u68	What I want to say is that I fully understand you in that and that it is also right. I think it is important that we continue our work on that, especially now. We've got plenty to do. So as far as that goes, I'll just go with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u69	When we look at page 8 of the report, where the conclusions are, we see that a colleague of Mrs Kat's, namely the Secretary of State, has repeatedly informed the Chamber immeasurably, incompletely and incorrectly. How does she look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u70	As incredibly bad and as unlawful, so that we as a Chamber have not been able to carry out our controlling task. Unbecoming. Wrong. So that's what needs to be learned. As you know, there are now two committees working on this important question of how we, as a Chamber, will better fulfil our role. I wish the committee members, including Mr Van der Staaij, every success. I hope that we can work constructively together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u71	Compliments for the answer. That's exactly how I'm standing in it. It's been different the past few years. In that sense, I got the impression that Mrs Kat's predecessor, we cannot charge her, was also concerned with the position of the Secretary of State. That was somewhat uncomfortable. It was also a bit disruptive. So my question is this. The interrogation committee notes that for political reasons the Chamber has been lied to and that the Chamber has been deceived. What else is Mrs Kat going to do in the role she has just described, namely to be sharp and try to represent the Chamber well in enforcing control of the cabinet members?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u72	As a new MP, I haven't been able to spend much time with you. I hope you will see me as a very dualist MP, and critical. If things don't go well, we have to name them that way, so that we can learn from them, and make sure they can't be prevented here in the Chamber. That's my bet. I have said it before in a committee debate: it is about what we as a Chamber consider important. The cabinet is there for execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u73	I hear Mrs Kat say a number of things that make me very happy, namely that she realizes that the recovery process as it is now rigged is not effective and is not working properly. The Secretary of State himself recognizes that. I also hear that real compensation is actually the wrong word for what we are looking for if it is only financial. Mr Van Raan just made a fine speech in which he talked about a process of healing. I am very curious to hear from Mrs Kat, in fact also a little in connection with Mr Azarkan, how she stands in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u74	Thank you for the question. I myself asked Mr Van Raan to co-sign this motion. But I voted for it. It's obvious that I think that's extremely important. It is indeed more than just financial. It's more than just taking over the debts or losing them. It's more than just looking at mental health care, living quarters and work. The point is that we really take our time together and give parents, children and young people the space to get on with each other. That's why you have to stay in touch with each other. You have to look at what they need. Not from the scheme, in the vein of: this is what we're going to do and that has to fit. No, on the other hand, what were you really helped with? That is the central question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u75	Thank you to Mrs Kat for this answer, which warms my heart. As Mrs Kat has just said, not all Members of Parliament have been able to meet her as a new Member of Parliament, but I have known Mrs Kat for a long time from the Amsterdam City Council. I know her this way, too. So I am extremely glad that you are still yourself, also here in The Hague. A question that Mrs Kat might not appreciate, and that is the somewhat party-political question: does Mrs Kat not think that it is remarkable at least to expect the same people, or the same body, who are responsible for all this suffering, including in the handling, to be the right people or organisation to solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u76	These questions have been discussed several times in the Chamber in the past. That question has also been discussed by the Child Panel. This opinion has clearly come out: the Tax Administration has made the mistakes and we want them to resolve this. Everyone thinks about this in different ways, but I think it is important that we turn injustice to justice as quickly as possible and we look at how we are going to help these people. I also heard the Secretary of State say last time that there is cooperation with other bodies in some areas. These collaborations will be examined in the near future in order to submit the further arrangements and effects to the Chamber after the summer holidays. That's what I'm gonna wait for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u78	My final question is then: of course, the Tax Administration must do everything in its power to resolve the damage caused by itself. But when it comes to the implementation of that process, whether or not in cooperation with other implementing organisations, can Mrs Kat imagine that it would be nice not only for the doomed parents, but also for the children, who are very important too, not to be confronted with them every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u79	I can imagine what you're saying. But I also speak to parents who have good experiences, for example with a personal business manager who is well judged, and who benefit from such support. They also come from the IRS. It is not one two three an easy answer to say that instead of the Tax Administration another organization is going to take over. But I can hear what you're saying. I think that at the moment we attach great importance to the complete re-evaluation that is to take place in the coming months. What I see and what the documents show is that it is not acceptable to continue with the current recovery operation on the same footing. It's taking too long and it's too hard. There are really hard choices to make, and it is up to the Chamber to make those choices and to discuss these dilemmas with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u81	As a politician, we are therefore facing a very important and important task. We must turn injustice into justice and thus do justice to the parents and children who have been so incredibly hard hit by the actions of the government. For D66 it was clear in the debate on the right resignation of the cabinet: excuses must be made to the damaged parents, we must learn from the conclusions of the committee and ensure that this never happens again. The first cautious steps have now been taken, but much remains to be done. I will therefore pay attention in my contribution to parents, children and young people, human dimension, racism and discrimination, good governance and the supplement system. Mr. Chairman. The correction of injustice for parents and children was not for nothing an important message from the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance. The recovery is now slowly noticeable for part of the parents, but there are still many parents in uncertainty, and parts of the recovery operations are struggling or stuck. Over the last few weeks, we have had several debates on this and it is important that options are now being developed to adjust the recovery operation so that parents can be more clear before we move on. I therefore hope for broad support for my proposal to follow fully the advice of the child scheme for children and young people. Doing justice to the conclusions of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance and the parents present touches one of my personal motivations to enter politics, namely to contribute to a fair, simple and understanding government. It is therefore important that we receive a letter last week on the progress of over 80 actions announced following the parliamentary interrogation committee on childcare allowances. But progress is far from complete in some respects. Precisely because the conclusions of the parliamentary interrogation committee were so harsh and justified and the cabinet resigned, I expect these actions to be given the highest priority at the highest level. What struck me was the rulers who contributed to this letter. Where the previous letter was signed by the Prime Minister, the new letter contains eight names, but not those of the outgoing Prime Minister. That is striking because, as I said earlier, we all have a duty to put this right, first and foremost, he has an expensive duty to do so. He says he feels responsible for making the settlement a success, for drawing lessons and for making all the things that have been said in the letter possible in the future. Hence my question to the outgoing Prime Minister: why is his name not under the newest letter? And what signal does he send with this? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question of human size. One of the good intentions in the letter of January is that directors are going to carry out cases. We're six months away now. That is why I ask the directors, each individual, which case has stayed with them the most during the past year and what action they have taken in connection with that case, of course, expressed as anonymously as possible. I am also curious whether the directors have remained in contact with the parents even after last January. Here, too, we would like a response from the outgoing Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State. I have the same questions as the SP. Why is this important? Because the human measure begins with human contact. I would also like to refer to the motion by the PvdA and D66 on harsh legislation and hardness clauses. Can the cabinet also give a number of hypothetical but realistic examples of situations where such clauses should apply? And can the cabinet regularly provide an insight into how and how often these clauses are used in the various laws? Why is this important? Because this helps us to assess whether this space is actually being used, but also because it can be a sign on the wall that laws and rules may still be too harsh. Then to one of the problems with the childcare allowance that has touched me personally: racism and discrimination. For example, the Tax Office kept and used data on double nationality, which has nothing to do with the application for the childcare allowance. That's terrible. It could have happened to me. Does the Cabinet know about the possible sanction of the Personal Data Authority? And what about the implementation of GroenLinks' motion to create an algorithm registry, so that there is better supervision of possible discriminatory algorithms? I therefore agree with the questions put by Mr Snels. And yesterday we received a letter about the use of nationality in other implementation organisations, such as the SVB and UWV. I have a lot of concerns about this. It is important that we have a rapid debate on this. D66 and the SP filed a motion in January to allow the judge to consider the personal situation of people, in order to prevent people from being ground by the system. In this motion, the cabinet was called upon to come forward with proposals in the spring. When can we expect these proposals? What is the outgoing cabinet waiting for anyway? We need to get rid of the current supplement system. I agree with the words of the Christian Union and the PvdA on this point. At the same time, the parliamentary interrogation committee has also taught us that we should not sit still in the meantime. I therefore welcome the letter from the Secretary of State on the implementation of the motion of the VVD and D66 on quick solutions to the current surcharge system. In addition to the actions already undertaken by the cabinet, I would like to urge the outgoing cabinet to start working quickly on these solutions. I am particularly curious to see how the National Ombudsman's recommendation on the single parent and the linking principle are implemented. Just a brief comment before I finish. Last week's letter also referred to the work on loyal contradiction in official craftsmanship. I think that's a pretty bad term. I would like to emphasise that the outgoing cabinet must be open to any kind of contradiction and must recognise that this is also necessary for a better governance culture. I'd like a response. Mr President, I will conclude. It is time for a new attitude in politics. A policy based on human beings and human values. A policy that takes into account the needs of the smallest possible minority, the individual. And a policy based on confidence rather than mistrust when making rules, as expressed by a large part of this Chamber through support for the motion of Members Klaver and Ploumen. There is much work to be done to protect our inhabitants and the democratic rule of law. I'd like to get to work quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Kat. Then I give the floor to Mr Idsinga of the VVD. Unfortunately, Mrs Gündoğan van Volt had to apologize. It cannot participate in the debate because of private reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a new Member of Parliament, 99 days spokesperson for taxation, I was stunned when I read the report Unfamiliar injustice. I've read it several times and every time I see it, my back is shivering. Back then, the group chairman Klaas Dijkhoff called this affair a cluster catastrophe of epic porportions and apologized on behalf of the VVD group. I couldn't say it better myself and do it better. In fact, I would like to repeat this on behalf of my group today. The impact of this affair on the duped parents and children affects me deeply, as well as many conversations with them. The YouTube movie of The Missing Chapter Foundation also made a deep impression. In that video, children and young people tell us what it has done to them that their parents were in the misery of the government. Those stories are heartbreaking. One of those kids told me about the group meeting on Monday morning in group 3, where other kids told me what they had done that weekend. He never told anything in that circle, because there was never money to do anything fun. A young woman had to abandon her studies because of this misery. This must never happen again! The report of the parliamentary interrogation committee is very hardcore. The Committee urges all those involved to consider how to avoid repetition in the future and how to correct the injustice that has arisen. That's what I'm standing here for. Providing solutions for those who have been wronged and, two, ensuring that this never happens again in the future. Also looking at the people in the gallery and the people at home, I say: I will hold the cabinet and myself to this. The victims must be justiced by recognition, compensation and broad assistance. A recovery operation has been set up for this purpose, but it is slow and is at risk of being stalled. We can't let that happen. The Chamber has asked the cabinet to scale up this recovery operation and to come up with better plans, so that the injured no longer remain in uncertainty. We have talked a lot about this lately, even this morning, but it is important to hear it say it again. Hence again my question to the cabinet. When can we expect these improvement plans in concrete terms? What are the steps? How were these people best helped? The quick help of the injured is now the top priority, but I would also like to see poignant situations, such as those who get a job in the middle of the year and therefore lose or have to pay their fees all year round. Think about students, for example. Is there any solution for this? And if not, is there any work to be done on that? When will this be clear? Mr. Chairman. In addition, we will also have to look at the future. How can this be prevented from happening again? It is good to see that the cabinet has launched a number of follow-up actions following the report. I do have a few questions to the cabinet about this, and I will look into the plans concerning the implementation organisations, in particular the Tax Administration. For many, it is the most important face of the government. One of the objectives of the cabinet is to help citizens personally again, for example at a window. That is a good thing, because it gives the government a human face again. At the same time, this official must have the space and the powers to really help and, if necessary, to take real decisions independently. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? I have seen in other areas that tax officials have been less and less willing to take up space in recent years. More and more planned decisions were reversed after internal backspoke with invisible and inaccessible persons. Which often evokes the same feeling as: computer says no. I'd like a response from the cabinet on that point. How do we give civil servants more room to make decisions? After all, they are closest to the people and in practice translate the human dimension. Then there is an important point that I find a little underexposed in all the pieces I have read. I would like to explain this on the basis of a personal example. My father was also a civil servant, a servant of the government. He was a teacher, and he was very proud of that. He loved his job. Not because performance indicators had to be met, but because he wanted to contribute to a more beautiful world. He was a strict teacher. Rules were rules, but they were clear and they were fair. There was also always room for understanding and reasonableness when the individual situation so requested. I find these aspects under-exposed in all improvement plans, because you can still work so hard on business processes, policies and systems, if it doesn't work for the people, then we miss the point. Does the Cabinet agree with that? Is it also widely spoken with the people, from high to low, who work in the Tax Administration? I would like to see people there with heart and soul doing their work in order to be able to do something for themselves and, more importantly, for others. In a healthy organisation there are written and unwritten rules of conduct. That's how we deal with people here, and not like that. It provides common ground for desired and unwanted behavior on which you should be able to address each other. And based on that, you have to dare to escalate. I ask the cabinet to use the theme of 'organisational culture' at the Tax Office as much as possible, because it is the foundation of the construction. Does it agree with me and how is it going to do that? Culture changes are extremely important, but they also require time, and we need patience for that. How's the cabinet gonna bail that out? Mr. Chairman. To the people who have been the victims of all this misery...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u84	Before you continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u85	If it's all right, I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. To the people who have suffered from this misery, we are obliged to solve their problems. And we have to make sure that this can never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u86	You're all the way to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u88	Look. Mr Azarkan van DENK started his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u89	Is it the last one, Mr. Chairman? Ah. I have a question for my colleague Idsinga. He sketches the image of the government that should become more human, a government where people can work with pleasure and pride and where they also get room to sometimes make trade-offs that don't quite fit in with the tight rules that have been devised. But that is not the essence of today's debate. The essence of today's debate is that officials have broken the laws. If only the parents had had the luxury of a little more or a little less humanity. No, the civil servants just broke the law here. They didn't stop the childcare allowance in accordance with the rules. That is quite another thing, but this is the essence. Because we can talk about all kinds of improvement projects and about culture. By the way, we've been talking about culture at the Tax Office for two years. There is a great deal of commitment to this and Mr Idsinga is therefore being served on his beck and call. My question to him is: is he not a little unaware of the real problem, namely that officials have broken the law? I read that in the committee debate last week and Mr Idsinga also read that letter. On about nine points, the law has just been broken. What are we doing there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mr. Azarkan has valid points, justified points that I fully agree with. The law must not be violated, not even by civil servants. It shall not be transgressed by anyone; it shall not be transgressed, nor shall it be transgressed. However, I would also like to draw attention to the future, Mr. Azarkan. So we agree on the past: the law must not be broken. I fully agree with that. But I would also like to draw attention to the future. We have to get on with each other, too. We've got to get on with the IRS, too. And then you have to create a structure. You need to create a government that works for the people who work for the people in the country. That must be the first priority for the government. For that it is important that you look at the foundations, the foundations of the structure. And of course you must not break the law, but at the same time you must ensure that these foundations are good. That means that you need a culture in which it is common, among other things, for people to take responsibility for the people. People should also appeal to each other for behavior and the like. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u92	But I also fully agree with Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr. Azarkan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u94	Finally. It is not the case that all the citizens of the Netherlands have no confidence in the government. For many citizens, they have every confidence. They are not subject to crazy controls, they are not labelled as fraud, they can correct something with one phone call. So the picture that we now have a large-scale problem with our government and the government's actions, I just don't share. That is a way of not having to look at what really is the problem. The real problem is that groups of people are treated differently. The problem is that the treatment of groups of people violates the law. And what am I looking for now, Mr. Idsinga? The conclusion of the POK is that there has not been timely, incorrect and incomplete information by this cabinet, in which your political boss has been swaying for ten years. And it is said that they did this because they wanted different legal and political outcomes. I'm watching that future with you, Mr. Idsinga. How are we gonna make sure this doesn't happen again next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u95	I think I've just given the answer, but I'll try it again in other words. How do we look to the future? We look to the future by establishing with each other that we do not want it ever to happen again. Then we're gonna find the ingredients: how are we gonna make sure it doesn't happen again? In this context, when I look in particular at the Tax Administration, where all the terrible things have happened that Mr Azarkan mentioned in his speech, it is also a matter of a certain organisational culture that this can happen. Because in a healthy, strong culture, you talk to each other, just like we, Mr Azarkan and I, often talk to each other about how we are going to continue the recovery operation together, because that is what we are in. We support each other in this, and we act in a collegial way. I want to see that again. I'd like to see that again. I think that's part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr. Van Raan, Party for Animals, and then... Mrs. Leijten first? Mrs. Leijten, SP. I saw you rise a little earlier, but that's very gallant of you, Mr. Van Raan. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u97	We just called Pieter Ommzigt. I do not want to leave Mrs Lodder unnamed, Mr Idsinga's predecessor. She has played an important role. She helped parents. She has been very involved and she has, not so much in sight, but always pushed, pushed along. She probably should have been here. Anyway, that's what the VVD's about, about how she deals with critical, powerful MPs. The question I would like to put to Mr Idsinga is as follows. A large part of the report, of the recommendations and observations is about the fact that the information is not good. It's politically controlled, and that's not good. That's why there's still injustice. Now the SP has proposed to have the parliamentary lawyer look at whether the POK has received all the documents. Is the VVD going to support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u98	The VVD. Sorry, Mr. Idsinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u99	First, Mrs. Lodders. I agree with you: Mrs Lodders was a fantastic representative of the people. I just wanted to say that. I made a lot of calls to her when I transferred the files, and I still have regular contact with her. It's going in a very pleasant way. The point of the parliamentary lawyer. That has already been discussed, so I was wondering the following and that is a question for Mrs Leijten back. We have already discussed this once, and I think we decided at that time that this was not the most effective way of getting the information to come to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u100	What has happened, above all, with the SP proposal, is that it is going to be so at the procedural meeting, that sometimes here, unfortunately, D66 has made a complete argument. Other members of the House were quick to go along with that. My colleague Alkaya has tried to explain how we would like to see it, but that has not been followed. The proposal is to place the parliamentary lawyer, on the basis of the published Wob documents, along the claims and the documents received, and then to assess whether there are any documents that should have been included. That can still be done, and I would like to make that proposal today. I'd like to know if the VVD supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u101	You're referring now... Sorry, Mr President, Mrs Leijten refers to the discussion at the procedural meeting. If I remember correctly, that proposal came rather unexpectedly. I think it was at a roll-call meeting. It was a bit of a surprise for everyone. That's what we said at the time: we need to take a look... Because we want that information, let me be clear about that. We want that information. Then there was an official memo that actually said as much as "you may want to do this this way, but that's not really going to work; this is not the most effective means". That was the discussion that took place at the following procedural meeting. The cure wouldn't be enough. It wouldn't work enough. It wouldn't be effective. That is why we have said: then there is no point in this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u102	Your last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u103	Use an official memo to get a MP to investigate whether the Chamber will eventually... Because the interrogation committee is the Chamber. We do so on behalf of the Chamber, with a mandate. We've advanced. When we asked for information, we didn't get it. If journalists asked for it, they didn't get it. That's when we started moving forward. There's a lot of doubt about whether we got it. Then Mr Idsinga cannot hide behind'maybe that first request wasn't so convenient' or'maybe that official isn't so well written'? The question is: should we not investigate whether even the parliamentary interrogation committee has been trained by the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u104	A full yes to Mrs Leijten. A full-bodied yes. Yes, we need to investigate that, but we need to investigate it in the way that works best. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr. Van Raan, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u106	I should like to know the answer to Mrs Leijten's question just outside the microphone, namely: how? But that's not my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u107	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u108	But if Mr Idsinga wants to answer that, I will wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u109	Yeah, sorry, I was gonna finish my answer, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mrs Leijten asked outside the microphone: how? So I will give Mr Idsinga the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mrs Leijten did ask outside the microphone: how? In the way that's best suited for that. Yeah, I'm not a lawyer in getting information, so I'd like to get some advice and catch up on that. Let me stress once again to Mrs Leijten that information that we as Chamber want must be provided. That's important. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u112	I can go a long way with Mr Idsinga when he says: we need to build a new building; we need to build foundations to go on. I only know Mr Idsinga for 99 days, but I do know him as someone who wants to go forward and cooperate. I think that's a good thing, too. I think we can go a long way together in that too. The question I do have is the next one. If you want to build a building and have the foundations solid, then the next question must be asked. That question is about the past. Have you completely processed that yet? It wouldn't be a big deal, I'll take a moment, Mr President, because this is an important point if we could put that past completely behind us, because that has been completed. But it doesn't seem to be. I'm talking about the Ruttedoctrine, which still rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u113	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u114	The example I gave was that we are dealing with a Prime Minister who, in one capacity, who, as chairman of the group, says 'I embrace all the conclusions, really all the conclusions, of the parliamentary interrogation committee, really everything', but as chairman of his cabinet says 'I embrace everything except that it is politically driven'. Then I have two questions. And also...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u115	Your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u116	One. Mr Idsinga asked his father how he would have replied. I'd like to ask you to bring your father in. How would he have answered? How does Mr Idsinga view that this picture exists of two views at the same time? If he doesn't want to answer that, that's fine; I'll give it to him. He can think about it himself when he's in his bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u117	And the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u118	The second question is: can he at least imagine that there are people who see this Prime Minister's behaviour, who see that he has two opinions at the same time, and that this does not contribute to confidence? Can he understand that some people, in large groups, have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr Van Raan began his speech by saying that we are working well together. In particular, we are working very well together towards the future, and I very much appreciate that. That's what I wanted to say. In that sense, I would also like to return that compliment to you. Thank you for that. Can you move on if the past isn't finished? That is an almost philosophical question from Mr Van Raan. I can only speak on my own behalf. Basically, no. But at some point I'm a person, but again, now I'm speaking on behalf of myself, who wants to look ahead and move forward. And then I try to shut things down for myself. And I am not saying that everyone is like this or should do that, quite the contrary. Then let me give a clear answer to Mr Van Raan's more specific questions. Mr Van Raan will have to understand that I am not speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister, that I am not speaking on behalf of the cabinet. I speak on behalf of the D66... Oh, sorry, the VVD fraction, a painful mistake. I am therefore speaking on behalf of the VVD Group, and we in the VVD Group, and you know this, Mr Van Raan, have tabled a motion, which has been adopted by roll-call vote, which we fully endorse of all the conclusions of the POK report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yes, Mr Idsinga says it is apparently becoming philosophical. That's right, but we don't have to go there right now. We don't have to go there right now. We need to get to the next thing. We're building a building. That's where we work together and we get along well, but it hasn't been processed yet, it's not finished yet. And one element in that is the very bizarre behavior that the Ruttedoctrine confirms, namely that it is true at the same time that the person Rutte has two different forms. And that Mr Idsinga can imagine that this is not a reason for large groups of people to say: okay, I trust this cabinet; I trust it, because I am sure that Mr Rutte, as foreman of this cabinet, has the best interests of the parents, of the recovery operation, of being chief. No. No, there's still an emperor with no clothes. And he probably doesn't even know it himself. I asked questions about it. We're gonna hear the answer. I ask for a reflection on this, that contribution to laying the foundations that we are working on together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u122	Thank you, thank you. A reflection by Mr Idsinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u123	Yeah, I'm just listening to this story. And with all due respect to Mr Van Raan, I'm just trying to distill out a question. What is the specific question, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u124	And I would like to ask Mr Van Raan to ask a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yes. I understand the need for concreteity in this Chamber, and rightly so. How does he look at some people saying: well, I still don't trust it, because the Prime Minister's behaviour doesn't contribute to confidence? Does he understand that that plays a role in building the foundation, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u126	I can't look into the Prime Minister's head. And I'm not in charge of that. I'm in the VVD Group myself. And, as I said, but now I repeat: we supported that motion, we embrace the report. So if there is any uncertainty with Mr Van Raan about how the cabinet or specifically the prime minister is in it, then Mr Van Raan will have to ask him that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you. I'm going to see Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u128	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It threatened to get a little too cozy, and then I thought, "Well, I need to get in the middle. And now it went again... So I don't have to intervene here anymore. I have a question about the foundations. One of the foundations is, of course, also the supplement system, which should be reformed. I have not heard from Mr Idsinga about this at all, and I expect it from the country's largest party. If there's such a big crisis, he called it cluster himself... I know what you don't expect, don't you? Many parties have done so: my party, but also D66, the Christian Union, the SP, GroenLinks. But the VVD still says: we just keep that surcharge system, we don't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u129	I did not hear the VVD say what Mr Nijboer is now saying. In fact, my predecessor Lodders.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's extremely complicated for a lot of people. That motion also recognises that the surcharge system is extremely complicated and that it takes time to change it. That would be hugely far-reaching for a lot of people and we will do it for those people in the end, of course. Lodders has acknowledged this and she said that in the meantime I would like to examine what changes are possible within the current system and therefore in the short term. That's one. So that initiative was with us. I think that Mr Nijboer is asking specifically for the long term, and in the long term we should indeed replace the current system. That is also what the VVD thinks, because it needs to be simplified. In our election programme, you can read that we believe that the surcharge system should be reduced as much as possible. It's just too complicated and we're looking at how we're going to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u130	Thank you. I would also like to ask you to respond a little bit shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u131	In the short term? I have even praised and praised Mrs Neppérus when she took the initiative, but I am indeed concerned about the future. The VVD doesn't do anything for that, see the bill. The VVD does not really change anything, because it requires choices, namely the choice of a significantly higher linked minimum wage and publicly funded childcare. The latter, of course, actually reduces the odds. But public spending must be included, and the VVD does not want that for ideological reasons. That's why it's sticking. The VVD is the CDA a bit in between one of the few parties that doesn't give a shit, while it is one of the biggest economic discussions. Where's the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u132	As I said to Mr Nijboer, we are looking at how best to do this, because it is extraordinary, extraordinary, complicated. I'm not there myself, but probably is also on the formation table for how we're going to come up with a good new system together. That is also stated in the letter from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u133	I'm definitely not sitting at that formation table. The VVD is closer there, but of course all these studies have been done long ago. It's kind of like box 3, because they've been investigating that for eight years, and there's still no system that people think is fair. These are political choices and they are very clear! Publicly funded childcare, because then there will be no need for a childcare allowance. One party has one variant and the other party has the other, but after halving the nominal premium you no longer need a care allowance. The rent allowance could turn you into... The choices are very clear, but they are political choices that the VVD apparently does not want to make yet, certainly not that substantial increase in the minimum wage. Those choices need to be made. We cannot do that from today to tomorrow, because it is really complex and it has purchasing power consequences, but then we can get rid of the supplement system. I get it all, but I'm gonna ask the VVD to give us somethin' or somethin' for those choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u134	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u135	I hear Mr Nijboer's appeal. I also assume that, as stated in the letter from the cabinet, we will be able to make major strides with each other in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u136	I still have some interruptions, Mr. President, because I kept them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u137	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u138	It's a little later in the debate, but... I hope that will happen, but I am asking for the largest party in the country, and I did not vote for it, but that is where it stands in this great social debate. It is really an important discussion and then you give very little direction when you say: there is a pile of reports; it is difficult; there has to be something; it is on a table. You understand that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u139	I understand Mr Nijboer very well, but that is the reality. We're in the middle of watching that. If we are allowed to rule with it, hopefully we will shape it more in a new coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u140	I've known my colleague Idsinga for 99 days as a good thinking person. At the same time, I find his answer not only thoughtful, but also a bit economical. What is the real ambition of Mr Idsinga? What does he want with the supplement system? What's his commitment to formation? And what quick fixes does he want? I also see that it is complicated, but what quick fixes, for example, would he prefer to see arranged in the forthcoming budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u141	Mr Grinwis! Oh, sorry. Mr. Idsings, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u142	I've already mentioned one of those quick fixes. I've just mentioned it's a very long list, so I don't know all the details by heart, but of course I have them in my pieces, the appealing example of the students. I mentioned students who, during the year, are still studying, getting a job somewhere in the middle of the year, making money and therefore losing the bonuses of the first part of the year and perhaps having to pay back. I'm talking about those quick fixes. That's a very long list. You've been able to read that in the pieces. On these points, it is simply a question of specific problems for a lot of people, and I would very quickly like to see specific, concrete measures taken by the cabinet. I have just made an appeal to that in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u143	I think we'll figure it out. A bit deeper, in line with colleague Nijboer. We have to note that over the past ten, fifteen or perhaps twenty years, we have had to push this redistribution mill increasingly hard to reduce the growing primary income inequality in our country, through bonuses and benefits. But if you want to get rid of those bonuses, not only will the minimum wage have to be raised, which the VVD fortunately advocates, but then you will also have to be prepared to raise the benefit level a bit. Is the VVD prepared to, if the ambition is really to be able to do without that supplementing system in the future, lift up the entire income building, so that you can actually make that happen and prevent accidents such as income cuts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u144	One of the preconditions for the new system of allowances is that it should not unduly affect middle-incomes in particular. You can also read that in our election programme. At the same time, we also think it is important to encourage people to get to work. That is one of the reasons why we have said in our election programme: we think it is important that these minimum incomes go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u145	Finally. There's an ugly monkey coming out of the sleeve. I share the objective of providing good middle income, to ensure that they do not go down the drain. At the same time, labour-oriented tax instruments have already been so high pumped up. Think of the IACK and the employment discount. Every time the VVD proposes an election program to push it up even further. This makes it increasingly difficult to review the whole system of supplements and a simple income tax. Does Mr Idsinga recognise that? Again my question: is it really his ambition to achieve a simple tax system, with a decent level of income, so that we can really make it better and we can avoid future surcharge cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you for Mr Grinwis' question. In its election programme, the VVD has said that you can read it, if you want to read it both about the surcharge system and about the tax system, that we are in favour of simplifying it as much as possible. So the answer is yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you, Mr. Idsinga. Then I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21, who has been ready for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "No one takes responsibility. Ernst and urgency not seen. Basic attitude of mistrust. Lack of internal and external counter forces. Little room for criticism. Fundamental principles of the rule of law violated." And of course, "Unknown injustice." That is a selection of the harsh words of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance in the report Unfamiliar injustice. It is a massive report on the premium affair, in which thousands of parents have suffered from an icy and calculating bureaucracy, without any sense of human measure. In the unjust recovery of huge sums of money, people have been completely destroyed. In doing so, all the powers of the state - the executive, the judicial and also the legislative authorities - have been woefully flawed. We have said it before, but the cabinet has therefore rightly resigned following these harsh conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry. The fundamental problems have still not been solved. Even now it remains difficult for the Chamber to get pieces, get information and find out exactly where and how it went wrong. It is therefore a worrying pattern in this cabinet, and the whole of the Netherlands has been able to read that serious cases are kept in the house for fear of precedent and skipping fires to dramas in other execution organisations. But even worse was the discussion of whether Article 68 of the Constitution should be filled in as the Chamber wishes. The cabinet discussed the conditions under which the controlling power could control the government. That's the upside-down world. It was all in the minutes. What kind of cabinet, missionary or not, do we have in front of us? In addition to the problems in the relationship between the cabinet and the chamber, however, we are still far from complete in practical terms. We saw unjustly rejected claims for compensation and the Administrative Advisory Council on Childcare Payment wrote at the end of June about the compensation of the injured: don't make any more promises, because it doesn't succeed in achieving satisfactory results. We are also faced with fundamental problems of feasibility in the recovery operation. The Secretary of State promises improvement. We would also like to say: 'Do this carefully, you will soon compensate too many people who are not actually entitled to it. Prevent us from getting into a compensation affair from having an extravagant affair right now." Mr. Chairman. We've been able to read how we got to this point. We can have a very wide-ranging discussion about the supplement system itself. And don't let it be a secret: JA21 wants to get rid of a surcharge system in which people have to make complicated applications and only know afterwards whether the application is correct, and in which they thus run the risk of having to repay significant amounts afterwards. The system is simply too complex, incomprehensible and therefore difficult to implement. But in this debate, as far as we are concerned, a somewhat broader reflection, fundamental, goes back to its roots. What are we here for as a room? Do we really control the power? Do we, as representatives of the people, see it when we lose sight of justice because of the desire for calculating legality? Do the powers control each other well? Is there a balance? How do we avoid forgetting the citizen? We have ideas about that. Less bureaucracy as a starting point and drastically simplify the tax system. An open administrative culture and in the implementation of laws do not forget the human dimension. Keep justice and legality in balance. Let the Dutch regain confidence in the government. Give people more influence and involve them more in policy. That is all necessary and these are the fundamental questions for our Chamber and the cabinet members. JA21 would like to continue the debate on this in the coming years. That's our expensive duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. The main conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry's report is that tens of thousands of parents and their children have been wronged for years. After years of ignoring signals, waving away horror stories and delaying recovery, the cabinet finally recognises that it has gone wrong. But that's the end of it. At the same time, everything was done to hold on to the power of the major parties and to hinder the Chamber as much as possible in its controlling task. The real seriousness of the institutional rot was skilfully covered up. And that rot goes very deep. Because there is a political consideration behind this, a breakdown ideology and a governance culture that distrusts citizens rather than protects them. Now there are finally excuses and perhaps attempts at recovery. It is important that the Cabinet and the Secretary of State try to achieve financial compensation. However, I believe that this awareness is beginning to become apparent from the Secretary of State himself, and the practice is proving to be too harsh to ensure the peace and freedom of the injured parents. Their needs, their real needs, extend far beyond €30,000. That $30,000 isn't even close to real compensation. We should not call that €30,000 compensation at all, because it is actually just a refund of their own money. That was stolen from them, Mr. Chairman. It's done to people. Lives have been smashed to pieces, torn to shreds, and the duped parents have been affected, belittled and rude in their humanity, in their dignity. I say it more often: in our economic system, poverty is the worst punishment you can get. It is a punishment that this government has imposed both the parents and the children and even the grandchildren. The suffering is intergenerational and it will take years to recover. Parents shouldn't just survive day by day. No, they're also being put away as incompetent, unreliable, incompetent. When you are pushed over the edge of the ravine of poverty, dogma determines the frameworks within which you may or can move. This poverty, because of our government, has forced parents to commit suicide, and that is why they are hearing now: you are a danger to your own life, society and you cannot take care of your children yourself. It is because of the government that parents are not taken seriously, that they are told: you are not financially active, emotionally and mentally capable or even physically capable of raising your own children, to manage your own money. There are people who have received €30,000, but still live under control, still have to live for a week from what it takes me to fill up the tank of my car so I can do the work here for five days. With all this, I am trying to say that this government has already destroyed lives in such a way that the financial problems are only a fraction in the struggle that parents are fighting on a daily basis. Because as a result of this poverty, the government has also created stamps and boxes that determine how the world deals with parents, how the government deals with them. It is above all the human dimension, the decency and the empathy of those dozens of different bodies where these parents end up who seem completely gone. And instead of making every effort to guide the parents in the bureaucratic hell that the recovery operation is supposed to be, they are still being sent from the locker to the wall. It happened then and it's still happening. They are still coldly required to submit books to debt statements, while they want to be eligible for an appropriate urgent home or to prove that they are not possible, but actually duped parents. If I were a duped parent, I'd only want one thing, and that's loose from the stranglehold of these government agencies. Even if they've received their compensation, they're still experiencing that stranglehold. Does it really get through to this outgoing cabinet that a bag of money doesn't change anything at the moment in the resentment they've left behind in the lives of both parents, children and grandchildren? Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: when I walk into this building and see those responsible for all this suffering sitting around, wandering around, meeting, my heart really breaks over and over again. Sincerely. I do not understand how they still feel entitled and justified to continue to lead this country, to continue to lead this recovery operation, and how Mr Rutte and Mrs Van Huffelen, in connection with this report and the abuses of the last six months, still think they are the ones who should be directing the process towards recovery. For there is no doubt that all this suffering is based on political, deliberate, discriminatory, racist policy choices. I know it's very difficult for everyone to digest that, but we have to call the beast by the name. These are policy choices, determined in particular by this now outgoing cabinet. Prejudice given by this cabinet. Distrusting citizens who do not look like themselves as a delusion of the day, as a catalyst, for what we are discussing here today. It is impossible to heal the suffering with several occasional bags of money. Money alone is not going to heal these wounds. Money alone doesn't heal this destruction. The recovery operation should therefore be about much more than about financial compensation. Individual and intergenerational healing should be central. Mr Van Raan pointed that out to us. We have put this together in an adopted motion. There we are, may I say the same on your behalf, Mr. Van Raan? Oh, I'm so happy about that. It makes us hopeful. But how do you propose to do that? The most important thing is that the victims must be able to regain confidence, not only in the government and its agencies, but also in the world as a whole. They must be able to feel safe again in their own home, their own country, their own body. We have to go to another form of recovery. This is not a form in which parents are seen as needy and in which the Tax Administration simply fills out how to meet that need, but a form in which parents indicate what they need. I was very happy to hear that from Mrs. Kat. I even thought Mr Idsinga was talking that way. I'm really glad to hear that. It's time to listen to the parents themselves. I hope that the Secretary of State agrees with me and understands that such a healing will not be achieved with a team of 25, 50 or even 500 people. No, such a healing requires customization and one-on-one guidance. The parents deserve that. They deserve to stop having to carry that quest through bureaucratic hell for recovery on their own shoulders. They deserve to be government-free. So we may need 5 000, 10,000 or 48 000 employees who can take these burdens off their shoulders and spare them, because healing is the most important goal that needs to be achieved. What this healing looks like, Mr President, I would like to share with you, with the Chamber and the rulers, in response to some of the needs that parents have shared with Mr Van Raan and myself. If you dare to listen, they will be able to tell you exactly what they need. I want to thank the parents I have regular contact with, but of course also all other parents for their endless energy and drive. I respect that incredibly. If they all decided to never get out of bed again, hide under a blanket and hope that this would go away, I would understand that too. That they participate in this society every day, go to work and bring their children to school, I find superhuman. I respect that. On behalf of the parents who have spoken, I should like to make this quite clear. We want and demand, among other things, a lifelong fund for parents and children, participation in debates on transparency and the fight against government propaganda, independent experts appointed by the injured themselves, temporary exemption from directors and debt management until all debts have been waived by the government, perspective on work, employment, and a monument to come together, heal and share experiences. What they need is identity restoration, freedom and rest. If the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry has taught us anything, then it is that these parents have been wronged in no way. That requires unprecedented commitment, as long as and as much as it takes to restore everything. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-8.u151	Thank you, Mrs Simons. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The cabinet has indicated that it will take about half an hour to answer the questions. I'm suspending the meeting until about 5:15 p.m.
