ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35626, Amendment of the Environmental Management Act in relation to the implementation of Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and on the implementation of the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u3	Good morning, chairman, colleagues and Secretary of State. Welcome. I am also speaking on behalf of the PvdA Group. We are making a joint contribution twice today, so that saves time again. Today, the focus is on the use of renewable fuels in the mobility domain. It concerns the transposition of a European directive, but it also affects the implementation of the Climate Agreement. In terms of transparency and integrity, first of all, it is good to know that I have been on the table for mobility under the Climate Agreement, but that I have not been directly involved in the development of the biofuels agreements, if only because they have been achieved largely afterwards. Nevertheless, we do know about mobility, sustainability and renewable fuels. For example, I was once involved in a project called Bright Green Biomass with the aim of finding renewable, circular and climate-friendly forms of biomass. It wasn't easy, and it still isn't. The big dilemma of renewable fuels is that as they are applied on a larger scale, the impact on the environment increases proportionally. In addition, there are often long global chains in which supervision is regularly poorly regulated. Abuse, exploitation and damage to nature and the environment remain lurking. A great deal of restraint in the use of renewable fuels therefore seems to our groups to be a sensible route, now and in the future. We are therefore pleased that not only biofuels but also electricity-based fuels are part of this effect. Much has already passed in the treatment in the Lower House and in the question rounds. We still have a number of questions to the State Secretary on biofuels, but in particular on the system of marketable certificates: the HBEs or the BKEs. At the moment, our Chamber cannot take a picture of the quantities of raw materials available on a European scale or on a global scale, and to what extent this regulation intervenes. Can the government therefore provide an up-to-date overview of available raw materials for renewable fuels, distributed across the Netherlands, the EU and the global market? And can the Secretary of State give a reflection on what share of available raw materials it would like to allocate the Netherlands to the maximum under the fairshare principle? Is that a few percent or tens percent? We understand that this can only be done on the basis of a global assessment, but we are really curious how the cabinet looks at the dilemma of fair share. There are several renewable fuels included in the RED II. In the Netherlands, we work in an even stricter framework, namely sustainable biofuels. Is it true that food crops should not be used at all? The NEa has a very sharp list of where advanced biofuels have to comply to be usable for HBE and incorporation. In addition, the forthcoming RED II sets stricter requirements or requirements. an increasing threshold to meet those requirements of CO reduction. So this also makes the use of biomass more sustainable. Can the Secretary of State confirm that again? In addition, we are asking whether the Netherlands is going to do anything to regulate Article 1, Section 28, on the exclusion of biofuels from soya, also in Europe. Is the Secretary of State gonna work on that? But also within the different renewable fuels, the impact on the living environment may vary. A hectare of solar panels can facilitate a multitude of car kilometres compared to a hectare of hydrogen or biofuels. That's what the renowned agency T&E showed. But the question about the use of biofuels should actually be asked even more broadly. Is the use of scarce renewable fuels in the mobility sector the right use of these scarce biofuels? Shouldn't we actually spend it on chemistry or on heating houses? There is plenty of space to gain with the bet of the right fuel in the right place. The question is how the cabinet will ensure the most efficient use of sustainable fuels. What instruments does it have at its disposal? Does the cabinet intend to make use of this, even if this production takes place elsewhere? But biofuels can also go seriously wrong in countries with a well-functioning rule of law. In recent years, we have been faced with major cases of fraud involving biodiesel, and we are looking forward to monitoring and enforcement. We have seen several reports in recent years and have received signals about problems in licensing, supervision and enforcement. Hence the following questions. Can the Cabinet indicate how enforcement has been extended for this bill? How much FTE came in? How is the percentage of controls built up? How does this increase with the enlargement that we will see with this law? What criteria does the government use to build a risk profile for the companies concerned? In other words, on what aspects are physical checks carried out and are the chances of taking action sufficient to prevent fraud? This morning, we also read in the newspaper about the manure fraud, and there were alarmingly low percentages. That is what we want to avoid here. We would also like to know the state of play of the various motions on this subject. What about, for example, the motion on part No. 15 from Bouchallichh on the application of a multiplication factor for electric transport, and with movement in part No. 16 by Bouchallichh and De Hoop on investigating the negative effects of mixing residual products on the production of palm oil? And what about the motion to part No. 17 by Van Raan and Bouchallichh about external risks monitor at import and motion in part No. 30, replacing No. 22, by De Hoop and Bouchallichh about an impact assessment on the increase in demand for biofuels? Can the Secretary of State answer that? Then we'll get to the BKE's system. The NEA and other implementing bodies have strongly criticised the monitoring and enforcement of this new instrument. The design of the system also lends itself, in the view of our political groups, to a nasty disinformation campaign on the use of renewable fuels; a bit similar to the public debate on green certificates in the energy sector. It certainly didn't do the image right, though everything is fine in itself. If we understand correctly, a diesel supplier can claim to use 14% renewable fuels by demonstrating purchased HBEs, while a booking company that is not covered by the objectives of the Directive may also claim to achieve a certain CO reduction by the actual material use of those same renewable fuels. For example, two companies can potentially make a green claim, whereas there is actually only once the use of renewable fuels. Does the Cabinet recognize itself in this risk? How is the system of BKEs preventing one physical renewable energy source from being claimed by two companies for their sustainability ambitions? I would like a response: how will the cabinet prevent citizens from being misled here too? We are also looking forward to the need for the trade system. Why has this BKE system been chosen for a, as far as we understood, completely unique system in the EU? Why was this not necessary in other countries but in the Netherlands? Or does such a thing exist in other countries? I'd like an explanation. It also surprises our groups that those parties that can book are also parties that are not at all part of the objectives of this law. An important question is therefore: why has this system chosen to allow these parties to be registered, even though they have no interest in the implementation of the directive? What have the criteria been for registering as a booking agent? Can the Secretary of State address the situation of aviation and maritime transport in particular? Why is aviation one of them and not the railways? Should there not be a market open to all parties acting in or engaged in renewable fuels? Or should you restrict access to parties that have an interest in this law? We are not just asking these questions because of legal hair clovering. Our political groups note that parties who register as enrollers but do not have their own imposed targets can thus make a significant financial return on the use of renewable fuels, a return that parties who cannot be registered as enrollers or who themselves need BKEs cannot make. For the aviation and maritime sectors alone, the financial advantage could amount to some 300 or 450 million a year. We are therefore curious whether the cabinet can indicate what financial advantage a book-in might have in booking biofuels and how different this will turn out for a renewable energy BKE. What is the size of the market foreseen? I am referring to the prognosis, but also to the extent of historical data. What is the share of air and sea transport in this? And then the most important question: can the cabinet indicate how the financial advantage it gives to air and sea transport compared to companies operating in the same international transport market, but working sustainably or subject to the RED II, will be restored? How does the cabinet intend to defend itself against, in our view, legitimate accusations of unfair competition for fossil air and sea transport? This competitive advantage is greater than only the revenues of the HBEs. In fact, HBEs are partly purchased by the direct competitors of those air and sea transport companies, namely the transport and logistics companies which are covered by the RED II and which therefore sell them instead of HBEs. So they don't get revenue, they make costs. Then the difference is twice as big. So it's a lot of money, many hundreds of millions a year. Perhaps we are wrong about this, but we would like to hear it. Finally, the most important legal question on this subject. The reason why air and sea transport are allowed to operate in BKEs is, according to the answer, related to the desire to increase the use of renewable fuels in these two sectors, in anticipation of an international mandatory incorporation. In view of the growth ambitions in these sectors, it seems to us very undesirable to allow sustainability to take place there, especially through the renewable fuel track, because the scale of traffic and hazards is so great that biofuels will be virtually impossible to sustain because of the scale alone. However, when we go along with the desirability of this development, it is questionable whether the government can have the costs financed by people and parties who have no relationship whatsoever with shipping or aviation. If the use of renewable fuels in the air and maritime domain is not commercially feasible and as a society we feel it is desirable to do so, then the Empire should simply make this development possible through the general means. If the government wants to do so not through subsidies but through market development, there are other appropriate instruments, such as standards and positive price incentives within the sectors concerned. The use of renewable fuels in air and maritime transport is now funded by a select group of end-users from other sectors: motorists and the transport sector, which are also partly in direct competition with air and maritime transport. It may surprise the Secretary of State, but we are somewhat unaware of the reasoning why cyclists should not have to pay for the sustainability of aviation and the driver. Why didn't the Secretary of State choose a generic instrument? Please respond to this view. I'd like to hear why she thinks this is a route to be taken. For the groups of GroenLinks and the PvdA, it is clear that the booking option for air and sea transport is an undesirable development that should be terminated as soon as possible, so that the level playing field remains the same. What is the end date for this access? We understand that the Secretary of State wishes to put an end to the unrestricted access of air and sea transport to the reservation system by means of the Energy Transport Decision on 1 January 2024. Can the Secretary of State undertake that, after this date, the aviation sector and the maritime sector will only have access to the booking for which they themselves have an obligation to mix, so that the improper financial advantage can expire in the short term? Can the Secretary of State also indicate how, in the meantime, it intends to remedy the unfair competitive advantage it gives to air and sea transport in other sectors? I would stress that we find these important points and that they also determine the final judgment of our groups. We await the Secretary of State's response with interest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everything is neatly polished. We just don't have to wear the mask anymore. I am pleased with that, also with the steps that have been taken over the last three weeks. Since the debate on COVID-19, in which I made a plea for the removal of the masks as soon as possible, the government has fortunately decided to withdraw this part on the basis of the positive figures. We're all happy about that. Welcome to the Secretary of State. Thank you for answering the questions we have asked. In the course of my plea, I will come back with a single question. Mr. Chairman. Today's bill seems to be a technical amendment to the Environmental Management Act. In this sense, today's debate could be limited to a number of detailed discussions. However, my group sees reasons for a more fundamental approach: how can we increase the opportunities for renewable energy and accelerate the target share of renewable energy in the transport sector by 2030 without creating unnecessary barriers for producers? First a few current figures on the state of play. When we talk about renewable energy in the transport sector, there are only a limited number of resources available. These are basically two directions: electrifying transport via the use of batteries or electrolysis, for example via hydrogen, or replacing fossil fuel with biofuels made from waste but also by biogas via food and forage or frying fat. The first direction, the electrification of the fleet, seems to be getting more and more a breeding ground. There is much talk about it, but the share of electric cars in the Netherlands is still poor: in 2018, around 1.5%, by the end of 2020 according to Rabobank's figures estimated at 200,000 cars out of a total of 8 million cars driving around the Netherlands, or only 2.5%. This is a long way from achieving a 6% reduction compared to 2010 for emissions by the end of 2020. According to information from the NEA, the Dutch Emission Authority, the Netherlands has reached the European renewable energy target close compared to 2010:11%, compared to the 10% target. Well, we passed, but just over the ditch. This should be better and faster in the future by 2030. The Independent Senate Group, OSF, sees opportunities for this by accelerating the use of a multi-purpose land use system in the production of biofuels. In the meantime, there has been considerable resistance to the production of potentially viable biofuels, as this requires a large number of agricultural land. Although this resistance is understandable, we are threatening to destroy the opportunities offered by these energy sources by being too stoic and perhaps throwing away the baby with the bath water. As a result, the shift to sustainable fuels in the transport sector is stalling. The OSF considers that the multi-purpose land use system can have enormous added value in this respect, for example by imposing a multi-use obligation on all future land used for the construction of solar parks, using the subsurface of the solar parks for the production of biofuels. This is possible if the solar panels for those parks are placed on a few meters higher. In this way there will be room for planting crops under these solar panels for the production of biofuels, which will greatly increase the yield of renewable energy from these land, not only through solar panels but also through fuels. A global calculation based on the existing arsenal of solar parks provides the following numerical picture if these subsurfaces, say the unused subsurfaces of the current solar parks, were produced, for example biodiesel, after we had already settled that in the past. The current arsenal of solar parks in the Netherlands with a substrate is 2,200 hectares. The result of the solar current of the current solar parks is 2.082 megawatts. The extra annual yield for biodiesel per year on 1 hectare is 1,500 litres. With that you can drive about 5,000 kilometers with one truck. In total, if you had decided to use multiple land use for those 2,200 hectares in the past, you'd already reach 3.3 million litres a year, or 11 million kilometers a year. If you turn that around to the 14% target as a mixture, you'll come at 80 million kilometers extra per year, which we could already achieve by using the subsurface of the solar parks for biofuels. Mr. Chairman. The lack of flowers now leads to insects becoming more and more threatened all over the world. The double use of useless subsurface of solar parks could also contribute very positively to the enhancement of biodiversity if biodiverse planting were applied on these land, such as rape. For example, the knife cuts on several sides: the bees are improved, the environment is less taxed by CO-neutral biofuels, the land is used more efficiently, biofuels are an effective way of energy storage, and there is no competition for the food sector, because there is double land use. These mentioned positive indicative figures for double use of useless land give us reason to bring to the attention of the Secretary of State the system of multiple land use to accelerate the transition to renewable energy sources for the transport sector. We are aware that this may be outside the policy area of the Secretary of State or even in several areas of fellow executives, but in the context of the policy slip, I would ask the Secretary of State for an integral response from the Government. That's why I already shared my contribution with your assistant yesterday. Perhaps you could also include in your reply what it would mean if we applied this form of multiple land use throughout the world. This would be a huge potential capacity to increase the production of biofuels. If we start in Europe, or maybe start in the Netherlands and get Europe so crazy to join, that would be a big step forward. Depending on your answer, I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr President, good morning. Good morning to you, too, Secretary of State. Thank you for answering our written questions. Unfortunately, the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the RED II, the Renewable Energy Directive, is the logical follow-up to the RED I. It is well known that the European Commission holds the energy sector responsible for more than 75% of EU greenhouse gas emissions. Increasing renewable energy emissions in different sectors of the economy is therefore, according to the European Commission, an important building block for achieving an integrated energy system that fulfils the European ambition of climate neutrality. A nice sentence with a lot of bullshit. Climate neutrality? The climate is not subject to the law. Over the last millions of years, it has shown itself to go its own way, with or without man. But that is not all, because according to Europe, the aim of the RED II is to ensure that renewable energy for use, for example for construction and transport, is fully contributing to the achievement of the higher European climate ambition for 2030. The targets and measures set out in the Directive should ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced by at least 55% by 2030. To the extent of disaster, the Dutch Government welcomes this. For example, the greenhouse gas reduction target of 40% by 2030 is increased with the greatest ease to at least 55% compared to 1990 levels. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the PVV Group has great difficulty with the compulsion of the RED with its objectives. The Netherlands wants to be the best boy in the class again, but it remains to be seen whether this is the best boy in the class. With all these European ambitions, companies are being driven towards high costs and their account will eventually end up with citizens because the costs are passed on to the selling price of the final products. And what happens when the objectives or objectives are met? are ambitions not met? Is it possible in that case that environmentalists will go back to court to enforce this, as we have seen in the nitrogen dossier? In other words, are we preparing a next claim from organizations like Urgenda today? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The RED II is unmistakably part of the Green Deal, the paradehorse of our own Dutch climate pope in Brussels. Before we know it, we are once again hanging on to agreements made at EU level on this issue. I have already mentioned it: it is not unthinkable that the judge should be called if certain ambitions are not met. I would therefore like to conclude with a short but powerful old Dutch proverb: bend before you start, and get sober again. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I shall then give the floor to Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, President and Secretary of State. Today we are discussing emergency law 35626, amendment of the Environmental Management Act because of the European directive to promote the use of energy from renewable sources. As far as the handling of this law is concerned, I must first say something. Our group felt moved against the wall because this law was offered to this Chamber only three weeks ago and because it covers very complex technical matters, of which it took quite some time to comprehend. Technical questions could be submitted by means of an accelerated procedure. These led to a report rather than the usual procedure of a provisional report, after which further questions could have been asked in a second round. Despite the comprehensive answer given by the Secretary of State to the questions of our group, for which we thank you, there are still a number of questions, sometimes technical ones, that I will put in this contribution. Mr. Chairman. In view of the time pressure that has just been put on me to deal with this law, on behalf of my group, I would like to make an urgent request to this Secretary of State and to the various ministries to strive for the timely submission of legislative proposals that have long been in the process. It should not be the case that, at the end of a lengthy legislative process, this Chamber should not be asked to deal with legislation in record time for urgent reasons, which could have been foreseen much earlier, which could potentially compromise careful treatment. I would like a commitment on this from the Secretary of State, and preferably on behalf of the entire cabinet. Mr. Chairman. What would go wrong if we didn't deal with this law today? Even the vote on the law and any motions must take place today. What would have gone wrong if we had postponed the treatment by a few weeks? Is it only the EU's compulsion to implement this law before 1 July, because otherwise the climate will suffer irreparable damage after 1 July? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the substantive examination of this bill. According to the Cabinet, the production of biofuels from waste and residues should be encouraged and renewable fuels contribute to the transition period from the existing fleet to fully emission-free passenger transport. This law also lays down frameworks for renewable fuel, including as synthetic fuel. After understanding the intended purpose of this law and the related measures, we feel that a hugely complex system has been developed to meet intermediate targets on the road to an emission-free transport sector by means of administrative tricks. As is often the case with CO measures, the objective seems to justify the means. All transport sectors have to comply with a 14% standard for the use of energy from renewable sources, while this standard has been reached in the Netherlands, according to the answer to our technical questions, at the value of 36 petajoule. Some sectors, such as aviation and maritime transport, are technically unable to use renewable energy, but the EU believes they should comply with it. There are small-scale tests, such as the well-known KLM flight to Paris, which is also known as the "KLM Patattje" on the control tower of Schiphol. But high costs, insufficient amounts of fry fat and discouragement of the use of this raw material prevent large-scale use of it. Mr. Chairman. In order to comply with the 14% standard for aviation and maritime transport, an administrative trading system has been established to create so-called renewable fuel units by renewable energy producers. 1 HBE stands for 1 gigajoule, which again stands for 30 liters of biofuel. These LUs are then traded to sectors that are not able to use this form of energy. This HBE system even has administrative multiplication factors which give biodiesel and the renewable energy that is so desired a bonus to be able to meet the 14% standard more quickly on paper. Mr. Chairman. With regard to these so-called HBEs, I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. What are the financial implications for the aviation and maritime sectors of having to purchase HBE trading units on paper? What is the impact of this on consumers? Is this fuel going to be more expensive and, if so, what amount? Is this price increase also passed on to the consumer and, if so, how much more expensive does it make a plane ticket, for example? Mr. Chairman. Then about the availability of raw materials. According to the State Secretary's replies, 80% of renewable energy raw materials are waste and residues and 20% are fodder. There is also a growing share of renewable electricity. This legislative proposal can also complement the share of renewable energy. However, synthetic fuels are expensive and dependent on additional renewable electricity. However, the problem is that the raw materials of waste and residues are scarce and imported from the EU, America and China. These are nut shells, sewage sludge and algae, with additional incentives to transform them into biofuels through SDE+ subsidies. Also deep-fried fat is suitable as biofuel, but has a limited bet, as I said before. Food and fodder, such as wheat, maize and rape seed, are also covered by the permitted raw materials, in addition to so-called intermediate crops. Raw materials are renewable in the chain if there is 80% or more CO reduction, but the reasoning here is equal to the reasoning for so-called CO-neutral biomass. When these raw materials and residues are burned, CO will be released. Moreover, imports of these raw materials from these countries also generate additional CO because of their transport. In this way, there is no overall reduction of CO, is there? And is it not undesirable to have to depend on China for the import of raw materials? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The trade and production of biofuels also requires an EU monitoring and certification system. There is supervision with this law on all links in the production chain within the Netherlands, but is it true that there is no supervision outside the Netherlands, other than having to rely on international supervisors? If this is not undesirable, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Zero emissions for all transport sectors as a final objective poses a huge challenge for the sector. Fully electrifying or driving hydrogen from road transport already requires a huge effort when we look at the huge increase in the electricity needed, which must also be sustainable. The current inadequate infrastructure of the network and the loading infrastructure will also entail enormous costs. Moreover, the emission reduction of the aviation sector is more or less impossible. The National Air and Space Laboratory has researched that the electricalisation of commercial aircraft is a utopia due to the huge need for battery storage. In addition, the development of synthetic kerosene is complex and very expensive. The hydrogen needed for this will have to be generated with renewable energy, which would mean that our North Sea would have to be further filled with wind turbines. We definitely shouldn't want this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for the following reasons. What are, all overlooking, the total cost of implementing this law for citizens and for industry? Is the ultimate goal of zero emissions for the transport sector a realistic objective? Mr. Chairman. All eyesight is this law unnecessarily complex and it is the result of continuing to swim in the CO trap, with which we put ourselves, the consumer and the industry in great trouble. As far as our group is concerned, this is a dead end. We will therefore not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. Then I give the floor to Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group. For the record, the legislative proposal will be voted on today, but not on possible motions for resolutions. Those motions will be voted on next week, should any motions be tabled. Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposed legislative amendment implements a European directive agreed by the European Parliament and the Council. It also partially implements our Climate Agreement. Transport becomes a step greener. 14% of the energy must come from renewable sources, but there is no obligation to add it. Mr. Chairman. We support the proposal, but we also see it as a transition proposal. We believe that, in the end, the sectors concerned will not be able to achieve the objectives by using biofuels even though this proposal is not just about achieving them, but that, for example, green hydrogen is the solution for them. Biofuels are theoretically a good solution for greening transport, but they also have practically major disadvantages. Biofuels are often imported from Europe, but also from the USA and China. Bulk transport from these parts of the world on fossil-powered ships whose greening is still in its infancy will undo much of the environmental gain. I said it last week, I say it now and I say it this afternoon in the debate on reducing the use of coal in electricity generation again: cabinet, work on the hydrogen agenda. Hydrogen can mean the greening of chemicals, for example, hydrogen can mean the greening of heavy land transport and hydrogen can mean the greening of shipping. The Netherlands must make much more haste with the hydrogen agenda, says D66. If we compare our country with, for example, France or Germany, then we must do very much to ensure that we do not lose the battle, and that we have great opportunities through the extensive international gas network to transport hydrogen gas and to play a central role in Europe, which can mean a lot for maintaining jobs and for international trade. For this reason, too, it is important that the parties do not exclude each other in this formation, but quickly come to a new government. I would like a reaction from the Secretary of State, not so much on the formation of the Council of Ministers, but on the hydrogen agenda. Mr. Chairman. We very much appreciate how the Secretary of State is also committed in Europe to preventing biofuel from being extracted from soya and palm oil. This is no longer happening in the Netherlands, but it is not yet international. We also appreciate how the Secretary of State is committed to implementing the Schonis motion to prevent indirect land use in biofuel production and to consider soya and palm oil as a high ILUC risk. That brings me to the enforcement and implementation of this proposal. Implementation of this proposal is bureaucratic and enforcement problematic, as it is difficult to oversee the entire chain internationally. In fact, in order to do it right, a new instrument, the BKE, is needed to measure greenhouse gas emissions. But the NEA is very critical about it and has serious doubts about enforcement. Therefore, it is stipulated that the BKE will not start for the time being. But that does raise the question of what enforcement is going to be like. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. That is also why we need to move towards a more sustainable system that certainly applies to aviation and shipping which cannot do without hydrogen. We therefore consider this proposal to be the most feasible, but certainly not the ideal means of greening transport. In addition, we will have to answer a great many questions in the proposal for a decision on energy transport, but this framework will, of course, be very helpful. Mr. Chairman. Our group is looking forward to the answer of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 10.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal: 35626 Amendment of the Environmental Management Act in relation to the implementation of Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and on the implementation of the Climate Agreement. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a little digging where I can get rid of the folders here, but maybe this is how it's gonna work. Thank you to the Members for their input. The use of renewable energy is crucial for the sustainability of transport and achieving the national CO reduction of transport. The RED II is actually our framework to realize this. We do this, among other things, through sustainability criteria and reduction criteria. This legislative proposal provides for the transposition of the revised directive and therefore continues the Dutch policy of the annual obligation and the reduction obligation. This national system also removed the obligation from the RED I in 2020, and the system is considered to be workable by the market and implementation. The legislative proposal before us does, however, make improvements to ensure that the challenges of the future are well met. Specifically, the bill regulates that only non-high ILUC crops such as maize can be used, that there will be a limit on the use of used fat and that the use in shipping will become more manageable. And, very importantly, the supervision of the system used is made more robust with this law. We, like the Netherlands, are ambitious, even if you compare this internationally, and we are further strengthening the framework conditions with this bill. Durable, certified, as far as possible from residual flows and as little as possible from food and fodder. In doing so, I immediately answer some of the concerns and questions that Members had about the use of biomass in general. The cabinet believes that biomass is part of what we need to achieve our climate objectives, but also that we need to deal with them very carefully. In the course of the answer, I will indicate on a number of points how we have made that assessment, but I think it is important to emphasise this in advance. It is an instrument we have, but we must be careful and careful. We should not, indeed, have the impression that it will be unlimited for all sectors and will always be available to the Netherlands alone, because there is a demand for biomass throughout the world, and we must make sure that what we do under the line delivers something for the climate. That's why we're doing all this. That is why, as part of the climate agreement's ambitions, we are allocating 200 million to stimulate the development of high-quality biofuels. Why is the development of these high-quality biofuels so important? This also has to do with the fact that I believe that Mr Pijlman said that the use of biofuels in transport is really a transition phase. You want the sectors that can regain independence from the use of biofuels to become independent as soon as possible. And you want that as soon as possible only residual flows are used that are not high quality in any other way. So, in order to strengthen this development, we agreed in the Climate Agreement that the growth we provide for in the Climate Agreement will also come from advanced biofuels and that we will also spend money on developing those high-quality biofuels. All this to ensure that we deal with biofuels in a sensible way. Because, as the ESC also says, we should not talk about biofuels but about bio-raw materials. Biomaterials are still finding their way to biofuels for cars, but they are going to electrify to an important extent, while in other sectors those alternatives are even further away. Then it is important that the limited amount of bio-raw materials we have can always go to those sectors where it can be used as high as possible. That was also one of Mrs Kluit's questions. This is, of course, a long-term journey. But that is why the ESC opinion on biomaterials is so important, because all the parties in this strategy have agreed with each other: the transition from simple, light transport towards heavy transport and chemistry, in addition to the ever-increasing use of waste streams in order to be able to use them in high quality. This as a general framework for the way in which the government looks at the use of biomass, bio-raw materials and biofuels. Mr. Chairman. One of Mrs Kluit's questions was about fair share. That is also a question that we have clearly had on the table when negotiating the Climate Agreement. It turned out that it was not easy for the parties sitting at the table to indicate how to determine that fair share, because the Netherlands also exports a lot. Then how do you take that with you? In the end, therefore, we put that question to the PBL and to the ESC to give an opinion on it. They have carried out extensive research into this and have actually come to the conclusion that it is literally stated in the SER opinion that the determination of a fair share is not actually possible. They therefore recommend to work with fair trade, in addition to the sustainability criteria, to include socio-economic criteria and thus to apply the fair trade principle instead of the fair share principle. In addition, I believe that they indicate in the broadest sense in the ESC's opinion that fairshare principle by recommending the development of phasing-out paths in certain sectors, the conversion/conversion in other sectors and further growth in other sectors, while putting their hands and feet on increasingly high-quality use of biomaterials. That is actually the way in which the ESC recommends us to deal with that issue of fair share. Mr. Chairman. In the case of biofuels for renewable energy, of course, we all agree that, whether we are in favour of development in this direction or not, what we are doing should be right and that fraud should not be allowed. You can see in a very large movement in which we are dealing with a transition that we are also partly finding out where the loopholes are in the law. If you find out, you should also close it as soon as possible. In biodiesel, we've seen fraud cases. This law therefore strengthens supervision and control, not only private control but also public control. All these improvements have also been made in very close contact with the Dutch Emission Authority. It has pointed out to us the loopholes in the law which it thinks it can deal with and strengthen supervision here. So with this bill in the Netherlands, we strengthen the robustness of the system. This is of course an international market, so you don't just want to strengthen that robustness in the Netherlands, where it goes easily across the border. Other countries may have to deal with the same types of problem. So once again I have actively endeavoured in the last Environment Council to get this clear on the retina with my colleagues. There will also be a European registration system and countries will also cooperate with the major biofuels producers to exchange experiences and to limit these opportunities for fraud as much as possible. So in that respect too, we as the Netherlands are very committed. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mr Dessing, whom I am sure he has also asked on behalf of all of you: the request for legislative proposals to be made as soon as possible. I totally get that, because we're all dealing with a summer spurt. If there's gonna be an emergency again, it's always gonna be annoying. Unfortunately, this dossier has had some intermediate steps and has also been with the House of Representatives for some time before it could be dealt with there. All in all, it has been submitted to your Chamber in this way. I can also imagine that you would have preferred to relieve that summer spurt, but I am very happy that we can now deal with this so that we can stay within the implementation period of the law. What would go wrong if we didn't treat the law? I can mention a number of points. We are then an unreliable government, we have a reduced investment security. But I am thinking above all of the lack of strengthening supervision and less guaranteeing the sustainability of what we are doing in the end. That is why I am pleased with every day that we can start with stricter monitoring earlier, regardless of the issues of default by the European Commission. That may be more important on one side of the Chamber than on the other, but that is, of course, also a factor. A further question has been asked about the overall costs of implementing this law. Then it is equally important to look back at how such an obligation to mix biofuels as part of the European system and as part of our national climate agreement has actually been developed. In the context of the Climate Agreement, we said that the Netherlands signed the Paris Convention that we must be able to reach 49%. We asked the PBL how we could implement this in a cost-effective way. So that cost-effectiveness has always been the starting point in dividing the tasks between the different sectors. The PBL has come to a certain classification. There were also biofuels, about 5 megatons. From the concerns we have as to whether sufficient biomass is actually available sustainably, we have said that we want to fill that in high quality. Then you come to 5 megatons; we put that on 2 megatons. This is a step-by-step approach, both from cost-effectiveness and from the actual availability of sustainable biofuels. It is then encrypted in the percentages you see in this law. Non-action in line with the Climate Agreement entails quite different, much larger costs. But that is how you can peel off the costs of implementing this law. In addition, by aligning this law with the existing system, we avoid all kinds of additional administrative and executive public costs. In this way, we make the transition to sustainability feasible and affordable. Mr. Chairman. A number of specific questions have been asked. First of all, I will deal with the system of annual obligations for HBEs. Why do we have this system, and what do other countries do? Furthermore, questions have rightly been asked about inland navigation and maritime transport: how do they actually fit into this system, and why? I will also discuss the availability of raw materials and sustainability. I also come to the issue of supervision and fraud. I'll start with the HBE system. Why did we choose this? We had a choice. The directive left us with the choice of designing a system. Different countries have made different choices, but we have opted for a trade system from the cost-effectiveness perspective. This trading system, through an annual obligation, allows for other transport sectors and renewable energy sources to be provided with opportunities for action in addition to the blending of biofuels. Moreover, on the basis of GroenLinks' motion, among other things, there is the possibility to steer those alternatives that you would like. For example, four counts of hydrogen are possible within this system. That kind of advantage also offered this system, allowing you to steer further in the desired direction. The system is judged to be workable by the implementation and policy sector. That is also a reason for continuing it this way. We have also been asked why we do not opt for generic funding rather than a market instrument. It is always a combination of different considerations. When the Climate Agreement was concluded, a mix of instruments was chosen, with cost-effectiveness as the main driving force, as I mentioned earlier. On the one hand, zero emission techniques, such as electricity and hydrogen, are stimulated by subsidies. On the other hand, existing techniques, such as biofuel, are standardized. We have recognised a combination in the Climate Agreement. On the one hand we have the desire to fill in that 2 megaton with high quality. For this 200 million comes from the SDE+. A mix has been chosen to give an extra boost to what we want to stimulate. This is not through this system, but through the system that is used for this purpose in a generic way. So we are always looking at a necessary mix of the goals. Mr Dessing asked about the European playing field. We are in favour of a European directive. This means that a level playing field is guaranteed. Mrs. Bezaan asked: is there any possibility for Urgenda? The objectives of the RED II are monitored by the European Commission. The parties must comply with an annual obligation. This follows from European legislation, not so much from an Urgendavonnis. If we do not comply with it, even the European Commission can initiate infringement proceedings, for example if we are too late in implementing the law. But that is just a generic European system, nothing special. Mrs Kluit also asked a question on behalf of the Labour Party about various motions. I will not go through them all because the general answer is that we are working on it. They have been deported for research, but the treatment in the Lower House was relatively recent and we haven't had all the research results yet. I do intend to share it with the Chamber prior to the discussion of the Energy Transport Decision. A number of them were also related, so they will come back there. Another important point was about inland navigation, maritime transport and aviation. In some of these questions it is important to think about what the system is. If there is an obligation to add, as is the case for certain sectors, then you are also obliged to take fuel where that is in it. Mrs Kluit, for example, asked about the railroad. Why isn't the railroad part of this? Well, the track is already electric, so they don't have the obligation to take away fuels or energy that add extra green. So the track doesn't have the obligation to make those extra costs. The track also uses diesel in part. If the NS were to buy diesel for diesel trains, we are also electrifying the remaining lines, because we want to get rid of the diesel, it is also obliged to pay for the biodiesel part. This entails additional costs, but for the rest of the rail network, which runs on electricity, the NS is not obliged to incur additional costs. However, in a number of other sectors it is mandatory to make the transition to more sustainable fuels. However, they are obliged to pay for the 14% incorporation. That's where the distinction is. For shipping and shipping there has been a possibility to accommodate them in this. We have said that we want to do this temporarily, and I will come back to the specific questions that I have to ask in a moment to give them the opportunity to give an incentive, to use that development towards sustainability. Of course, this entails additional costs, rather than an advantage, because also the HBEs that you may submit do not outweigh the additional costs that need to be incurred to make kerosene, for example. I will deal with this more specifically in a moment. But participating in this system means taking on an additional obligation, and not just benefits. I will come back to that more specifically in a moment. Moreover, the obligation rests not on the customers, but on the fuel suppliers. Fuel suppliers to road and inland waterway transport are not obliged to purchase HBEs from aviation and maritime transport. They don't have an obligation to go get it there. They only do this if this is the most cost-effective way to meet the obligation. But by creating more options to create HBEs, the obligation in general becomes cheaper. The annual obligation is also not increased to provide additional space for maritime and aviation. In this sense, the motorists who ultimately pay the price for road traffic will no longer pay because of the participation of shipping and air transport. In fact, there is a possibility that it will be cheaper if there are cheaper options. It then contributes to the cost-efficiency of the incorporation of that 14%. Moreover, this is really meant as a temporary construction. This was initially not designed for these sectors. They need to realise their own instruments in order to make them more sustainable. That's why the law says it's gonna stop by 2025. The Minister of IenW is already in the process of establishing his own system for air and sea transport. Then there was the question: what is the size of the market in this? The annual obligation has not been increased. The question is, therefore, what share of the incorporation via the HBEs that are to be entered in the aviation and shipping sectors will be part of the annual obligation which is not further increased. The volume does not increase, but the question is where it is filled under that volume. That is where the actual distribution takes place. We keep a good finger on the wrist in that. We saw the last year that shipping actually took a huge flight. Then we wondered if that would not have a negative effect on the excellence we want to achieve. We keep our finger on the wrist every year here, partly based on signals from the NEA. We can also intervene on an annual basis. That is what we have done in shipping because we felt that there was a lower level of commitment rather than a high level of commitment. We sharpened that back then. It has now been indicated that only advanced biofuels should be delivered for maritime transport from 2020 to participate in this HBE system in order to strengthen that battle towards sustainability and higher-quality deployment. This has therefore significantly reduced the deployment of maritime transport in 2020 compared to 2019. The use of renewable fuels in aviation is relatively expensive. Even if you take the proceeds from the HBE, it's still one and a half to twice as expensive. So the expectation that that will take a big flight is not that big. There was loving talk about "one fries flight." Yes, there is. That does offer a small support, but it doesn't outweigh that cost. By the way, this does not say anything directly about the price of a plane ticket, I say to Mr Dessing, because he also knows very well that this depends on so many things. Again, for aviation there is no obligation to do so. It's voluntary. Mrs Kluit asked: wouldn't it make more sense to link these two things more emphatically, so that only players in the same field have that opportunity? I would like to say to Mrs Kluit that we will look very strongly at this point in the evaluation that is planned within three years. Then we have a bit of experience in maritime and aviation, and we will take this point explicitly into account in the evaluation, as a separate decision-making point, to see if there is any reason to limit it to those parties. Then we will also have a better view of the specific systems for aviation and shipping, where there should also be a clear development by then. Mrs Kluit asked about the deadline for the entry of maritime and air transport. That's 1 January 2025 at the latest. Then it stops. I have already said something about the track in the introduction. The track is already largely electrified. They should therefore not be given an additional obligation to make them more sustainable. But if they use diesel, they are obliged to incur additional costs. That's why. A bicycle doesn't use anything, so it doesn't have to be subject to an additional obligation. That's why the bike's not in there. Then I come to the availability of raw materials and sustainability. I have just gone into that at the beginning, in the introduction. It is incredibly important that we keep a close eye on each other. I understand the concerns that exist, very well. Don't we use food we need in fuels? And if it is, shouldn't we get rid of it as soon as possible? It's a transition. In the beginning there was talk of this commitment, but that is very little happening in the Netherlands. I have tabled motions on this subject in my former position as a Member of Parliament, together with GroenLinks, but now I come to the conclusion that we are far below what we had set as the maximum. The European directive says that you can apply a maximum of 7%. Our amendment was about a maximum of 5% and we are now at 1.7%. I have promised the Chamber in the course of the proceedings that we will also be setting up a phasing-out path for that 1.7%. You will be informed of this every time of the annual report. You can read all that. We are limiting this and we are strongly committed to increasing the sustainability and excellence of biofuels. I also remain within the framework agreed in the Climate Agreement, as I have just indicated. We have also made an extra effort to keep the poor in order to ensure that we have sufficient sustainable bio-raw materials to provide for this growth. Mrs Kluit asked for an overview of renewable fuels. Are there really enough? For a year and a half, the market, NGOs and knowledge institutions have worked together to find an image of this, through joint fact finding. The SER study Biomass in balance is the result of this and has been integrated into the sustainability framework for biomaterials. The SER concludes that in principle there are sufficient bio-raw materials available worldwide and in Europe to meet the Dutch needs, including exports, towards 2030. Anyway, in the end they come to the conclusion that you can't really deduce a fair share from that. They say: get on with fair trade and also be careful with the stakes; don't pretend it's unlimited sustainably available, because it's not. I'm just gonna say it in a little bit more domestic. Mrs Kluit also asked: is the use of fuels in mobility the right use, or should they actually go to industry and housing? That is why, at the beginning of my contribution, I outlined the general framework of how the cabinet looks at the use of biomaterials. It's en-and. We need to make the transition to an increasingly high-quality commitment, an increasingly high-quality use of bio-waste streams or bio-raw materials. Mrs Kluit asked: will the Netherlands also do something to achieve a European ban on soya? Anything that carries high ILUC risks, you have to want to minimize. That is why we have finally incorporated this into the law in the Netherlands. At European level, in the Environment Council, I am calling for a broader roll-out of the decisions we have taken in the Netherlands, so I will certainly not fail to do so on this point either. Work is currently under way to update the scientific data on which crops can be identified as high ILUC risk. It's expected this year. Once crops are also identified as high ILUC risk in Europe, they need to be phased out across Europe. We support all movements in that direction. How do we ensure the most efficient and high-quality use of fuels? What system is in our Dutch system? This is in particular the system of double counting or quadruple counting. This allows you to provide additional support and speed up the direction you want to take. The factor 4 multiplier for electrification is a very strong steering, especially for lighter transport, which really has the future. Furthermore, double counting also controls waste and residues, as these streams have high CO reductions in the chain. I'll be back in a moment to ask if the transport was taken. I'll give you a spoiler alert: yes, that's also included. In addition, the government is allocating 200 million to further support advanced biofuels. Those resources come from the SDE. Does the transport of biofuels actually reduce CO emissions? That was a question from both Mr Dessing and Mr Pijlman. Here's how it works. A biofuel or biofuel must meet the European sustainability criteria, regardless of its origin. This allows a raw material to come from biodiverse areas. But it is especially important that a renewable fuel should achieve a minimum of 50% reduction in the chain compared to a fossil fuel. That often amounts to 70%. In the requirement that it must be at least 50% greener, transport must be carried. Sustainability can only be achieved if the whole chain is certified by a sustainability system approved by the EC, from source to end-use. So the transport's in there, too. Mr Dessing asks: is it not undesirable that we should get so much from China? Yes, I think we are all striving for the most independent energy supply possible. Of course, you don't want to drag raw materials halfway around the world. I think that is a goal for all of us. If we can really switch to electrification in transport, we are a bit closer in that respect. In line with the sustainability framework, the cabinet is also working on the wider availability of bio-materials, both in the Netherlands and in Europe. I'll be on the double land use in a minute. The SER Biomass report in balance also shows that there is potential for this. We've been looking into that. A roadmap is being developed for national bio-raw materials, which also makes it clear that more bio-raw materials can be made available in the Netherlands. We will probably not be able to produce everything in the Netherlands, but we are also actively working on it. It is also important to know that 35% comes from the EU and 10% from China. Fortunately, that is not the bulk, but I think we can all agree in that direction. There was another question about zero emission. Is the objective realistic for the overall mobility sector? Mr Dessing mentioned a number of figures. Our goal is to be climate neutral by 2050. If you look at how long cars drive on average in the Netherlands, you will have to stop adding new vehicles that are fossil driven around 2030. That is why the cabinet has the objective of getting new zero-emission vehicles on the road from 2030 only when it comes to passenger transport. That way, you're at the normal time of replacement, around 2050, at that climate neutrality. Indeed, the share of the total fleet is still small, but this will grow steadily over the years. I think you have all noticed that we have seen a lot of reports in the press recently from large car companies saying: from 2030 or 2035 I do not even produce them anymore. We can see this acceleration happening, not only in passenger transport, but also in freight transport, for example in the case of vans. This is also because Europe-wide has been strongly engaged in this direction. It would also make sense for car manufacturers and manufacturers of trucks and vans to make these investments and to launch that market. The vehicles are of course important, but also the loading infrastructure is incredibly important. I liked the fact that we recently received a press release stating that the entire cargo infrastructure sector in the Netherlands has a turnover of 5 billion. I believe it was an increase of 30% compared to last year, so it grows like coal. It is very nice to see that new economic activity and new jobs are related to this development. Then there was another question about hydrogen. The hydrogen agenda needs to be rushed. All I can say is absolutely. But that will be to a great extent up to another cabinet. We already have an incentive for hydrogen in this bill, but at my request, a cabinet-wide committee has also been set up to look across the different sectors at the use of hydrogen. This is important for the electricity sector, chemistry, industry and transport. Although green hydrogen will still be scarce at first, we need to see how we can use it as high-quality as possible. They're all working on it. There will be a national hydrogen programme, an action programme. It is absolutely right that you should draw attention to this. There was one final question about multiple land use. Then I have one more block, Mr. Chairman. I shall then be happy to answer Mr Dessing's question. It is very good that you are asking attention to this, because we all want to use the scarce space as optimally as possible. It's nice that you've made a calculation that shows the potential, because otherwise you might think: what does it get? On all those fields, on all those acres, and in the incorporation, it can certainly yield a lot. I will therefore draw your suggestion to the attention of my colleagues from LNV and EZK. The European Commission is also looking at intermediate crops as a raw material for biofuels. These may not be considered as the main product, but of course it helps to stimulate the combination. I would like to say to you that I want to identify the opportunities together with the colleagues from EZK and LNV. We will then send you a joint letter on this, because such ideas must also be worked out and put on paper. Then they can also be taken into consideration. So I'd be happy to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u15	I come back to the answer given by the Secretary of State on my question on zero emissions from the transport sector. It presents a number of examples of the electrification of the fleet and also of the lorries. What does the Secretary of State see for himself the zero emission of the aviation sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u16	As a long-term thing, I'll just say briefly. We can see that the aviation sector still has a huge challenge. It's really nice to see... I'm sure you've seen the first designs for electric planes recently. We can also see in this sector that developments are going very fast, but it is a sector of enormous size, with huge capital investments. How quickly will they be able to take different steps? That's gonna take a lot more time. But step by step we will also have to make the battle for sustainability in this sector. Each sector needs its own development path. For aviation it will really be something of the longer breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u17	A follow-up question on the example of electrification of aviation. I think that the National Air and Space Laboratory has already pierced it fairly well for commercial flights, but that aside. Is that the answer? Or is the Secretary of State also looking for the solution in synthetic kerosene?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u18	I don't think I should pretend to know the solution for aviation now. This is a sector in which many technologies are still in development that will compete with each other to see what will ultimately be the solution. Perhaps it will come to a scenario in which electric flights for short distances will be a solution, which will already make a lot of difference, because many of the CO emissions are related to those short flights that require different solutions for longer distances. I think biokerosin and synthetic kerosene will certainly be part of the mix, but I don't think we can predict it for anyone. At least I wouldn't risk it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you for the answers. We have some further questions about aviation in the system. There were two moments when that was discussed. On 1 January 2025, according to the law, they can no longer act as a bookkeeper. On the other hand, this is examined in the context of the evaluation. I don't quite understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u20	This law now states that it will take until 2025. Then it stops. In fact, we have said that we would like to make a start, but aviation is of such size that it needs its own system. However, I also think it is important to keep the finger firmly on the wrist in the meantime. As with shipping, we can keep our finger on the wrist every year. In addition to aviation, shipping is also part of this whole system. That is why I would like to assure you that, in the review in 2023, we can make an explicit decision on whether we should do it only for road transport or whether we should continue to make use of the possibilities for shipping and for aviation, with an explicit agreement on aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u21	So, if I understand correctly, in 2023, an evaluation will come and we'll see how this works: do we stop or do we possibly go through with it if we find it useful? If we don't make a decision, it'll end in 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u23	Clear. I'm looking a little bit in the cups, maybe it's still coming up to the size of the maritime and aviation markets. Can you say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u24	I said something about this in the reply. The size of the annual obligation does not change because you can book in from other sectors. It is therefore not the case that the entire size of the shipping market is now suddenly part of the size of what is to be completed in the Netherlands for that 14%. The puddle, I'll say, that we have to supply with green fuel, doesn't change. It is only the case that some of the puddle could be filled with fuels used in shipping or aviation. But the total size of the puddle doesn't change. We saw in 2019 that a very large part of the lake was filled by shipping. That's when we and the NEA took a good look at that. We were concerned about whether we are still continuing to develop towards increasingly high-quality biofuels. That is why we have adapted this and it has now been indicated for shipping that only high-quality biofuels can really be supplied for inclusion under this lake. So the size doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u25	As is clear from our questions, we are concerned about how the competitive advantage is developing in relation to other sectors. I wonder if the Secretary of State will let us know each year how this is developing. What does the advantage look like? Then we can keep our finger on the wrist to see if it doesn't fly out of the bend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u26	In any case, I think it is very important that we report to you annually on the actual deployment of aviation and shipping. It is important to realize the following. The reason why there is an annual obligation is because it is not cheaper to use it than fossil fuels. That's why there's a year's obligation. Participation in the annual obligation means additional costs. Selling HBEs can take a piece off that, but as I've already outlined to you, it's one and a half to twice as expensive for kerosene. The HBE yield thus does not cover the uneconomic top at all. Then the question remains: will it be more expensive for road users? This is not the case either, because the fuel suppliers who have to turn in the HBEs do not immediately take the most expensive HBEs. First thing they're gonna do is find out which low-cost HBEs are on the market. They'll use them to turn them in. There is therefore no incentive to take the more expensive HBEs. This will only be used if, on balance, it actually means a reduction in costs for road users. As the puddle doesn't get bigger, those who are obliged to deliver the HBEs will always go looking for the cheapest option. This extension only means an extension of options from which they can choose to arrive at the cheapest mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u27	Then I suggest that we hear more about this later in the second term and that you go to the last block now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mrs Kluit rightly asks whether the Chamber can be kept informed of what this does and what its size is. I think that is very good, because on the basis of these figures we can better quantify with each other what it means and whether we would like to change something in that, yes or no. So I don't think that report is a problem. For example, in the past year we have made a change for shipping on the basis of such a report. The piece of surveillance and enforcement. The risk of double claims: that of course cannot be the case. An HBE can only be used once within this system and the NEa also sees to that. For example, the NEA, like the private auditor, controls the accounting of the certified link. So you're basically working through mass balance. There will also be a Union database in Europe to prevent the duplication of renewable energy claims. That's exactly one of the things we're strengthening with this bill. It makes it easier to control this. The CO reduction with the use of renewable energy through the annual obligation on the Dutch transport market is also attributed to the system by PBL and the KEV. That counts, but only in the way it was allowed to count anyway. How is enforcement extended? There are now 80 companies active and 4 inspectors can be used full-time for this purpose. This is growing to eight inspectors, so that's a doubling. We are also expecting an increase in the number of companies, but the inspectors are joining us. This comes in addition to the existing deployment of the NEa and the ILT and, where relevant, the Public Prosecutor's Office, to which I just referred. They are active and powers already exist. The NEa will use the inspectors risk-driven. The risk profile requested is built on input raw materials and, for example, the use of double counting. There are therefore criteria on the basis of which risk-driven controls are carried out. The research will mainly be an accounting study: a throbbing mass balance. You can't sell a few tons of pellets twice; then it's not right anymore. They look over the links in the chain. It is also possible to carry out physical checks based on sampling in parts of the chain. So that is also a reinforcement that we are making possible. The NEa checks a certified link and compliance with the requirements on the site. The NEA can monitor the processing of raw materials, the trade with fuel suppliers and the supply to the market by means of this bill. With this change, from 2022 onwards, the NEa will be able to view those accounts by link from production to delivery. A difference from the old situation is that there was mainly private certification at the time. Then there's always the question: who checks the certifier? That's why there's public oversight on top now. So you will also have the database of the European Union. Once again, on a European level in the Council, I am committed to making the awareness of all my fellow Members as much as possible. There is a level playing field, because we all have to do this in Europe. There is a system of private certification, but in a European context, I am working with like-minded Member States to further strengthen that private certification. That European database is also going to help. Mr. Dessing asked about the foreign supervisors. As in the Netherlands, there is a system of private supervision approved by the European Commission and an independent auditor, mostly supplemented by public supervision in the country itself. But we are actively looking for cooperation in Europe. Mr Pijlman asked about access to business administration. Risk-based monitoring is carried out at every location within the biofuel chain. So you can look at all those links in the chain and then you can see if it's right between those links. Mr. Chairman. Those are the comments I wanted to make at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I understand from Mrs Kluit that she would like a moment's suspension. I'm suspending until 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u30	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, appreciation for the answer to the questions. Some were a bit detailed and technical, but the Secretary of State knows its origins. Appreciate the State Secretary's commitment to doing as carefully as possible with biofuels. The concerns about the development of the market are also reflected in the words of the Secretary of State. We are also pleased that they are committed in Europe to reducing the loopholes, because that is what we are talking about. We have heard that food and food crops are being phased out towards 2030 and that the Secretary of State is going to work for this in the Netherlands, but also in Europe. We do have a follow-up question about the fair share and fair trade principles. Indeed, the ESC opinion was not very clear on this point. The ESC gave the advice: look at the fair tradesystematiek. We are curious how that will develop in the near future. We would like to ask whether the Secretary of State, perhaps with a letter or otherwise, can keep the First Chamber informed of this. Perhaps at the end of the year it will be able to indicate at the beginning of next year how such a fair trade system works. I understand that the fry flight burns about half of Europe's fry fat. So in that respect, we need an obesity pandemic to keep aviation on its feet or we need to think of something else. I'd like to get a letter on that. I also appreciate how the Secretary of State outlines the dilemmas. In transition to a sustainable society, we will encounter many of these dilemmas. Then it's a little searching and sometimes giving a little faith. The groups of GroenLinks and the PvdA would like to do so by hand. So we are pleased that the Secretary of State wishes to send an annual report to the First Chamber, indicating how biofuels are used, which sectors are involved and what financial importance they take from it or do not take out to keep an eye on the level playing field in the transport and logistics sector. Finally, the VTH. We are pleased that the Secretary of State has doubled the stakes. We wonder if eight inspectors are sufficient in a market of 80 companies, which is going to grow. So also when it comes to this issue, we would like an annual letter on how that market is developing, even when it comes to the share in addition to administrative control, which we can have a great deal of confidence in. This can be done because data development is good and is getting better, but it is precisely this physical control that is needed to keep the company's awareness sharp. If there is less than a promille chance that someone will visit you at the company, it will be tempting to take the turns a little short. We would also like a response from the Secretary of State. If we are satisfied with the answers, we will advise our groups to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Mrs. Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear Mrs Kluit telling us about the positions of entrepreneurs, how to control them, and that we should at least be careful that they do not do wrong. Has Mrs Kluit ever considered the economic side of the whole business story?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u34	Yes, I think very often of the position of Dutch entrepreneurs in the context of the things we are talking about in this Chamber. It is my view that we are seriously abandoning our business in this area. If you see what innovations are around the world, how Southeast Asia innovates and sets up sustainable factories, and if you look at what the surrounding countries are doing, we are definitely fence shuters. You were talking about the best boy in the class. Also today there was a report from the PBL which showed that we are one of the worst boys in the European class. If we do not quickly ensure that the playing field for our entrepreneurs is forward-looking but truly sustainable, we will see that our businesses are seriously lagging behind in market development in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u35	What you're saying sounds beautiful, all beautiful and idyllic. It seems so to speak La La Land. But what I really mean is that the measures you are talking about are investments that must be made by companies. Sometimes they may get a little help in the sense of subsidies or whatever, which our party is not really in favour of. But how do you see it? Those entrepreneurs will have to do that somehow if I follow your thinking. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u36	Innovating is also part of an enterprise. If you don't innovate as an entrepreneur, your future is very limited. Relevant innovation at the moment is about sustainability. If you don't get there in time, you're late and your market has already been hijacked by other companies. I mentioned Kodak as an example in another debate. Nokia is also a wonderful example. Also in the Netherlands you see companies that just start to bump behind and that can no longer participate in the market because their competitors work much cheaper, because they work more sustainably. Sustainable means: scarce raw materials, scarce energy and scarce management of your staff, so you don't have to spend a lot of time recruiting people, buying raw materials in a scarce market, etc. We are simply not preparing our business for this, and we should. So my plea to you is: make sure that we give our business a push with the loving hand instead of pretending that nothing is going on, and then they'll be run by by the companies of the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u37	Finally, Mrs Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u38	I understand your thinking, but as you speak, it seems as if the companies would only consist of large multinationals that have the ability to make certain adjustments. In the Netherlands, on the other hand, the engine of our economy is largely made up of SMEs. As you know, we've just had the corona crisis. So how do you expect companies like that to be able to make those investments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u39	Finally, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u40	That's a very good point you're making there. You have also heard me in the Corona debates not pleading for guarantee schemes or credit schemes, but for gifts to SMEs. So I think we can definitely find each other in that. In addition, SMEs are fully covered, as is the case for multinationals. If you think the baker on the corner won't get competition from the baker two blocks away who did put down an energy-efficient oven, then I think you live in La La Land.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you. Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State. Thank you also for the commitment to investigate the possibilities of multiple land use in this context. Of course I'm very happy about that. I had prepared a motion with the same text that you have pronounced, and I have just drafted that motion, and you may have read it already, but I am not going to table it, because that is not necessary. However, I would like to ask for four more elements to be included. First of all, I and the group were concerned that we want to apply an acceleration. I heard you say that there is room for 2030 to achieve 14% as an objective, but we would like to speed up. Last weekend we were able to take note that it is all a bit disappointing in the area of sustainable development, so accelerating rather than slow down. This system could offer opportunities for this. I'd like to take this with me in that investigation. A second element in this is, in particular, the improvement of biodiversity, which I have just mentioned. This, of course, is another element that we have not so far involved in the creation of solar parks, for example. Such a solar park simply means an attack on your own expensive agricultural land, without coming back in the context of biodiversity. At least that could be an opportunity that you need to involve in this. Of course, I am also curious about the deadline. We have a missionary cabinet, so I can imagine you saying we have other things on our mind. What time-limit would you like to link to the fact that the research has actually been carried out, particularly in the direction of this acceleration? Finally, I would like to say that, so far, multiple land use has not been an issue at all in the transition to renewable energy. I think that's weird. We build windmills and then we put together about ten, but you can't see anything. We build solar parks, they're elements in themselves, and you don't see anything there. But you could also link this in several areas, for example with energy from soil, energy from biomass, you name it. Can we not develop the idea of making it a hub, with multiple land use as a theme? So I think there are a lot of opportunities. If you start that investigation, you'll be able to visualize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I shall then give the floor to Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I will go on, because I am not entirely satisfied with some of the answers. On my question about total costs, particularly for citizens and industry, it was said that airline tickets have all kinds of facets. But I actually asked the question a little more broadly, because of course it is also about industry. And it's gonna cost a hell of a lot of money to make this happen. These costs will eventually be passed on to the citizen. So I'd like to see some sort of quantification of that. What does it mean that we're about to introduce this law and how much does it cost? As a follow-up, if this industry is going to cost it, I can also imagine that this will have a deterrent effect, especially for multinationals who, with the strict EU legislation that applies to this issue, are thinking'maybe we can do our business more cheaply outside the EU', and who might therefore withdraw. If that's taken away, I'll ask the Secretary of State. There is another point, which comes back to the scope of fraud and supervision. I've read some examples and heard them come across about biodiesel. What is the extent of this fraud and is it only about biodiesel? I'll ask the Secretary of State through you, Mr. Chairman. The point China has been mentioned. The Secretary of State admitted that this is undesirable and that we shouldn't really want it. Then my follow-up question would be: is it not, despite the fact that we are talking about 10% of raw materials, a consideration or an option to think about a restriction or even some degree of prohibition if that is possible? I can also imagine that the supervision of these raw materials might well be regulated in the EU, but in China much less at a greater distance. So I can also imagine from the parties on the left that it is an undesirable situation to allow these imports from China to continue. I would like to have another reflection on that. Finally, I hear all the parties here saying that it is actually a complicated law, in a transition that we really do not want, because we want to move towards a kind of new emission-free world. That hope is actually being based on hydrogen at the moment. I can certainly imagine. Hydrogen has advantages, but also huge disadvantages. Blue hydrogen is currently even made by burning fossil, so that costs CO. So there are huge challenges. I would actually like to call on the Chamber, but also on the Cabinet, to consider this issue with each other if we want to go this way, very practically in its feasibility, and to have a broader debate on hydrogen. How desirable is that and how practical? How much hydrogen do we need for that? How many wind turbines should we put in the North Sea for that? Is that what we want? I would like to have a debate on this for the future. I'd like another reflection from the Secretary of State on that. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. I call Mr Pijlman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the extremely adequate response. With you, perhaps we should not talk about biofuel anymore, but about biomaterial. You are also quite right to refer to the report by the ESC, which, on behalf of my group, I would like to say once again that we see the burning of bio-materials as a contribution to the energy transition, but not as a definitive solution. Maybe in a few areas, but not in general. It is also bureaucratic fraud-prone to do so, and you should get rid of it in the long run. Electrifying a very large part of the sectors is then the step forward. You have convinced me that public control by the NEA in this bill has improved considerably in relation to what has been going on so far. You haven't given up on not letting the BKE go in yet. The NEa said: yes, that's very difficult. You have said that it is fraud-prone and difficult and that you do not do it yet. That brought me to the point: do we now have enough tools to ensure that public oversight has really improved? That's right, I'm convinced of that by now. But I'd like you to reflect on that BKE one more time. I asked again about the hydrogen agenda. I agree with Dessing that it would be good to have a fundamental debate on this. When I talk about this, I'm talking about green hydrogen. Of course, energy is also lost and storage is a problem. But if you see around us how much investment is being made, in Germany, in France; if you see what opportunities the Netherlands has as a gas country to re-use the existing infrastructure and to generate a lot of jobs and trade internationally, then I think: pace, pace, pace. Of course, we have the cabinet formation that doesn't hurry. A cabinet committee has been set up and a national hydrogen agenda will be set up. Then my final question is: when can we see it? Is this gonna go on, regardless of the cabinet formation? If this is gonna take a long time, are you gonna come up with that? I think the country needs that very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, will you be able to answer directly? Five minutes, you say? Then I'll suspend until 11:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u48	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the Members' comments and questions. Mrs Kluit, who spoke on behalf of the Labour Party, asked whether the Chamber could be kept informed about the development of the thoughts surrounding fair share and fair trade. I have already indicated that I intend to develop a phasing-out path for that first generation. I suggest that in that letter I also give some more information about the image of fair trade rather than fair share. How do we keep a close eye on each other? Because that is actually Mrs Kluit's question. I suggest I take that in that letter. I'd be happy to make that commitment. In addition, she mentioned the point of the hand on the crane. The NEa makes an annual report. It will show up in which sectors what is being booked. The financial component of this will become difficult because it concerns company confidential information that depends on a lot of factors, but you do have an insight into the volume of flows. Again, booking always costs extra money, more than fossil, so there is not just any financial advantage to be gained. Through the annual reporting, you have an annual view of the size. As I have indicated, we have looked at this in the maritime sector over the past year on the basis of its size and adapted things again. There is that possibility. So you get this every year. The same applies to the request to indicate to the VTH, in the case of the use of inspectors, what is physically and administratively involved. I will ask the NEA in its annual report whether it intends to comment on the extent to which the inspectors are involved in physical and administrative checks, so that we can keep an idea of this. Mr Raven asked me to include a number of points in the investigation. I'd be happy to. He wants me to map out the possibilities for acceleration. That is exactly why it is interesting to do this research, because then we can see what contribution that could make. I believe that the biodiversity aspect can also be taken into account in assessing the opportunities offered by multiple land use. This can then be taken into account in the consideration of other options. I will have to do this together with a number of colleagues, at LNV and EZK. If possible, we hope to inform your Chamber this year. That will probably be by the end of the year. Otherwise it may be at the beginning of next year, but that is about the deadline we hope to achieve. Mr Raven also asked: should we not think about multiple land use in other areas? It is perhaps good to see that this is being considered in the context of the NOVI. For example, solar panels on roofs of distribution companies or solar panels that float on the water, using that water directly as a climate adaptation buffer. This is how this is being considered more widely. It is quite right that you should draw attention to this. Mr Dessing asked about the total cost to industry. The industry does not incur any costs, as it is not obliged to use them. So it really is about the road hauliers who are taking the fuel. They end up paying the costs. The total cost, of course, also depends on the extent to which, for example by broadening the options, we can book costs, and on the other hand, how many multiplication factors we give to hydrogen, for example, to stimulate that direction. Together, these factors determine the balance of costs per litre, but you have to think of a few cents per litre. That's what it's really about. You asked about the extent of the fraud. The House of Representatives has been informed about this. In 2019, a letter was sent indicating the extent of the fraud. The signal from the ILT report indicated that in 2016 about 20% of the total of sustainable physical biofuels administered by the NEa in the Netherlands in those years could be included. That was really big. That is why we have intervened strongly and this law is so important, because it strengthens the monitoring and enforcement of the chain. Perhaps that was also, in part, an answer to Mr Pijlman's question on the BKE. I apologize for not taking it with me in the first round. Why don't we introduce the BKE by 1-1-2022? Precisely because we have been warned that the system, as it is now in place, would not provide sufficient guarantees against fraud. The additional advantage of the BKE would be that you can steer even more strongly on CO emissions in the chain. That's why you'd like to do it, but you only want to do it if it doesn't make the system more susceptible to fraud. We're in close consultation with the NEA, the supervisor. It has warned us and told us that it is not yet robust enough, so that you might create additional opportunities for fraud. We don't want that. At the same time, however, we want to further develop this instrument. That's why it's in the law, but it's not being applied yet, so we can work it out. If we feel that it is robust enough to add it, we can add it and thereby strengthen the whole sustainability of biofuels. In due course, the choice around the BKE will also be placed before both Rooms. So you're getting involved. Mr. Dessing asked about raw materials from China and said: aren't we concerned about how supervision and enforcement take place there? Specific flows from China can be reviewed. When bio-materials meet the sustainability criteria, they should be used in principle, but this is actually an issue that we need to discuss at European level. Is there any reason to assume that you still need to put extra control on that? Again, this law is really a step towards strengthening that control. That is a very important reason why it is so necessary to anchor this step in the law. Mr Pijlman also asked about the national hydrogen agenda. I don't know exactly when we can send it. That's the honest answer. But of course this is being worked on, because the whole development of ideas on hydrogen is of course also important in the context of the conversations that are currently taking place. One of you referred to the hope of an early formation. That means I don't have to stand here anymore, at least not in this position. I can't say much about that. I must say, of course, that I should not be standing here any longer. So as regards the question of when exactly is the agenda going to be: it is going to be worked through hard. It is an extremely important subject in the breadth of our economy. You were right to paint that. The distinction between grey, green and blue hydrogen is, of course, very crucial, because you only have maximum profits in hydrogen that you make from the wind energy or the solar energy you have left and which you cannot use directly, to put it simply. Otherwise you always lose efficiency and then it's just a question of whether that's the most high-quality bet in the end. That is a very important discussion. I can very well imagine you saying that this is an important subject for further discussion. Mr Dessing referred to this. I hope I have been able to answer Members' questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Secretary of State. I have two more follow-up questions. The Secretary of State states that it is not possible, because of the trade secret, to provide specific insight into the revenues of aviation and shipping from the sale of HBEs. I understand that to some extent, but at the same time the cabinet itself can decide which information should be public and which should not. Is it perhaps possible, on the basis of the information provided by the NEA, to have an analysis carried out by the cabinet indicating a range of what the various sectors have left behind? I am asking you to avoid searching for the Chamber, because otherwise we will have to call and find out everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u51	The use of biofuels in an aircraft or ship costs more than the use of fossil fuels. An airline that decides to refuel biokerosin therefore pays more for that than an airline that does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u52	Can I ask Members to take some rest in the Chamber and rather not talk through the speaker? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u53	So it is the producer of biokerosin that, in order to print the total price of the biokerosin that he can offer to the airlines, HBEs can try to sell in that trade system of HBEs. But it's not the airline that gets the advantage. The airline then only has the option of refueling biokerosin which is not two and a half times more expensive, but may be twice as expensive as regular kerosene. That is why I am looking for what Mrs Kluit is looking for when she talks about a "benefit for the sector', because it is a slightly smaller disadvantage. The voluntary use of biofuels in shipping and aviation is an additional cost obligation imposed on the sectors, as they are not yet covered by the obligation to mix. Hopefully this will apply under a genuinely own shipping and aviation system. Then you also have to make sure that you do not finance all of this by road. I believe that is where Mrs Kluit's concern lies. That's why it's important that we said it's gonna end in 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u54	It's actually two things where our concerns are. Our concerns lie in the competitive advantage created in the transport and logistics sector. A smaller disadvantage is also an advantage. If you drive a truck, you have to pay the costs of the HBE and they are about the cost of the biofuels you use. In aviation, you get the revenues of a sold HBE for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u55	No, because it's not the airline that gets it. That's exactly where the development is. Especially in aviation, it's still very, very small. In the annual report we will also show what it is. We might be able to see if we can give an indication of the average cost of a liter of biokerosin compared to a liter of normal kerosene. In this sense, we might be able to see if we can give some more information on the order of magnitude of the additional costs incurred by the airlines and the shipping companies involved. Again, because it is a trading system, those who do have an obligation to surrender HBEs are not obliged to take the biokerosine HBEs. They will only do so if it is not more expensive than the other options available on the market. That is why enlargement to include shipping and aviation offers the opportunity to lower the costs for everyone in the system. Then you are also talking about an advantage for those who can actually acquire HBEs in road transport at a lower price than otherwise. I wonder if the advantage you're sketching is a distortion of competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u56	Finally, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u57	I think the Secretary of State and I actually have the same question. We would like that last question to be transparent. Maybe it's all okay, maybe it's not about anything, but maybe it's about a lot. We would very much like to have that in view. Then the question is: how much is going to sea and aviation for biokerosin or biofuels or raw materials and what is the price of one HBE that you can eliminate? I mean, we could get that in the picture, couldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u58	Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u59	The size is definitely visible. Regarding the price of an HBE: in an annual report it will certainly be possible to indicate what the average price of an HBE was. If we can do it that way, we certainly have an idea of that and, on the basis of the combination, perhaps we can make the analysis or we can do it the way we want. I do not think we are very different about this and we can thus keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u60	Then we're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps to help the Secretary of State and also to clarify for the Chamber the following. I know that biokerosin is now four times more expensive than regular kerosene. The obligation to add 14% of the amount proposed in the draft air transport note would mean an operational cost increase of 40% for the KLM. Then we're talking about huge costs. That seems to me to be rather complicated for the airlines. Can the Secretary of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u62	That is indeed a concrete illustration of what is going on. If the air transport sector accepts such an obligation, this means that airlines have to bear additional costs. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u63	Thank you. I will close the debate and come to the finalisation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-3.u64	Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Mr Dessing called for a vote. Then I propose that we vote on the legislative proposal today after lunch on the expiry of the deadline for implementation of the directive. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
