ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u1	A warm welcome to the Minister, who has still worked his bounce in. I hope you got it right. I sure would have given him permission to do that. The next item is the two-minute debate on Education and Corona, on the one-and-a-half-metre measure of distance in secondary education. We have four speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Kwint of the SP Group. He has two minutes' speaking time, but that is why it is a two-minute debate. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes there are those proposals that you make that you don't really feel like submitting. Why is that? We see the damage caused by the partial and sometimes complete closure of educational institutions, and we see the problems it poses. We very much share the wish that schools should be fully opened again when the weather is safe, but as far as we are concerned, the conditions are not in order and the proposed steps are not in line with the OMT's opinion. The OMT insisted that teachers and students should be tested twice a week. Otherwise, the OMT expects that on 1 July there will be a double ic occupation of what is now the predicted ic occupation. It also expects many tens of thousands of additional infections. Mr. Chairman. In our opinion, this is unsafe, both for teachers and students. That is why, with some reluctance, I have tabled the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, when secondary education is reopened, the one-and-a-half meter measure between pupils is always voluntary and that testing as a condition for education is always voluntary;]] [[also noting that not all teachers in secondary education have yet been vaccinated;]] [[Whereas the reopening of secondary schools entails higher health risks for teachers and pupils, as also indicated by the OMT;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the one-and-a-half meter measure in schools between pupils, at least until all teachers who so wish have received their first vaccination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u3	Yes, without wanting to repeat the debate, I do have a question about this. Suppose that on the 7th, when the schools open, the important condition of the OMT is that students and teachers are tested twice a week. What would Mr Kwint say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u4	I think that is a highly theoretical question, because we have said precisely when we are dealing with the test law that we all, I think about the whole Chamber, attach great importance to the fact that a test must always be voluntary. If there is a solution that, for example, does indeed result from the safe testing... I don't see such a one-two-three how that would go, but suppose that a rabbit is magical from a high hat that makes it safe. Yeah, well, that changes things. But we don't see it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u5	Clear. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u6	To avoid misunderstandings: testing must always be voluntary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u7	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u8	That's very clear. But in our neighbouring countries, we do see that it works. Because there is good information there children are tested, on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u9	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u10	I am very much in favour of these promotional campaigns starting, but we are still in the top three, four, five of infections in Europe. That's a factor that's also playing into this. This means that the starting position from which you are going to open the schools here is a different one from that in other parts of Europe. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. Then there is Mr Peters of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have just had a debate about opening the schools and letting go of the 1.5 metres. For me, it's very important that we choose here in this Chamber. We need to be clear, clear and clear about what we're dealing with and what we need to do. The CDA understands people's concerns. We have to take it seriously. But I am also convinced by this Minister's answers. He's convinced me clearly. Opening the schools in the way he imagines is just possible. I also think that we should all choose to go for clarity, for the sake of children, for the sake of parents and for the sake of schools and teachers. It shouldn't be half-half, non-well, if and sister and all. It's either yes or no. Hom or calf. It remains a difficult balance, but we are clear on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you. Then Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. These are very intense debates, in which we are talking about the right to education, but also about the mental health of children who have been missing a large part of education for a long time. On the other hand, the question is how teachers are doing. How can they teach safely? I understand very well that these concerns exist among teachers, partly because the OMT advice, of course, says very clearly that testing must be carried out on a voluntary basis. I have not been able to follow the whole debate this morning because of a plenary debate. We did follow it from the group. We heard what the Minister said about it. I would like to put one additional question to the Minister: what are the arrangements for teachers who are themselves at a medical risk? And what are the arrangements for children who are themselves at great medical risk or who have someone in the family to whom that applies? How do we deal with them? Could the Minister go into that in his reply? Mr. Chairman. I hope that we can continue to have this kind of debate. I'm also curious about what the others are saying here. I hope that we will look very closely at the interests of young people and put our hands together to ensure that there is much more testing. I told you this morning, we shouldn't pretend it's a very complicated medical procedure. Testing must be voluntary, but of course it can be done as far as I am concerned. I understand that the Minister gave a few examples of this this morning. We see in a number of countries around us that it can be done well. I hope that we in the Netherlands will also get teachers and students to do much more testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr De Hoop of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a youngest MP, I see around me every day how difficult it is for peers that they can't go to school anymore. It is the same in secondary education. The need for physical learning is enormous. But we have to make sure it's safe. There are a lot of legitimate concerns about that. Our appeal to the Minister is therefore to ensure that this is genuinely guaranteed, that we take teachers' concerns very seriously and that we continue to have talks with all these educational associations and the Teachers' collective in the coming period. Every effort must be made to ensure the best possible safety of teachers. This means that in the coming weeks we must make an extra effort to test the willingness of pupils and teachers. Additional support for schools will be needed to ensure that safety and to facilitate schools' willingness to test. There should also be continued attention to ventilation problems in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen also has something to say. He signed up as a speaker. He also speaks to us for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. The full reopening of secondary education is a decision that everyone wants. We all want it. Beautiful education! But we have just exchanged in the debate that this requires support and confidence, because we are also in the midst of a pandemic. That confidence seems to be lacking in the field of education so far. You really have to do your best as a minister to get a letter from all the unions who jointly say it's coming too soon. The reason for this is that there is insufficient consultation with the field. The decision has been taken, but there has been no consultation. I am very sorry and very sorry for that, especially for a decision that raises so many implementation problems for education. That's what we're seeing now. Teachers are dying to teach, but they want to feel safe. That is at the heart of what we stand for. The alleged difference between the cabinet's decision and the OMT's opinion plays a role in this. I asked for a letter on this in the debate. I hear he's coming. I didn't wait and call the OMT myself about that. They say, to my satisfaction, that there is no or little light between them, not even in the execution. I'm glad. We can see that here with each other, but that is without prejudice to the fact that this does not restore the basis of support. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the decision of the Cabinet to resume full physical opening of secondary education as from 7 June;]] [[noting that this specific decision did not involve consultation with the field of education;]] [[Considering that this discussion should have taken place in order to achieve necessary support;]] [[calls on the government to engage as soon as possible with representatives of teachers, school leaders, parents and pupils in vo, vso and pr.o. on policy regarding the opening up of schools and the implementation of the obligation to suspend full reopening from 7 June,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u19	Okay, so I didn't wait and call the OMT myself. They also have a phone number, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u20	Unbelievable! A question from Mr Peters; brief, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u21	Yeah, pointy. I think it's a nice style figure. It is quite unusual for Mr Van Meenen to call the OMT and for the OMT to say that it can be safe in accordance with the Minister's debate and answers. Mr Van Meenen noted that there was no support and asked the Minister to talk to all the parties who have just said that they do not want to. Suppose these parties say: according to the OMT it may be safe and apparently also according to Mr Van Meenen, but we do not want it. Are you going to vote against it? What are you doing with the clarity that we should be offering the schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u22	Apparently, the CDA isn't committed to consulting with the educational field. That's fine. I accept that. I don't accept it. I'll never accept that. I think you should take decisions of this kind that have such far-reaching consequences for everyone, not from one moment to the next, but in consultation with the people who then have to implement them. We're here for days, nights. All this time we fill here with the difference between what we all find here and the execution of it. So I think that is very important. What I find, I put in this motion. So I am not going to stop the cabinet's decision, but in this motion I am asking the cabinet to hold the discussion and, where that is necessary, perhaps for reasons of implementation, I cannot judge that properly and mildly to deal with the implementation of the obligation to reopen, as you yourself said in the debate. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u23	I find it difficult to ignore an ugly you-bowl, especially since the minister in the debate indicates that he is constantly, almost 24/7, in conversation with the parties you just mentioned. That's as important to me as you are to me. But you claim here that it's safe. The minister and also the OMT say it's safe and they want the schools open. You're also saying you're not gonna stop it. You're gonna wait for the conversation and vote in favour. I conclude that I am at least happy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u24	It is good to hear that Mr Peters thinks that, if the Minister says something, it is and that we have no further role to play in determining whether it really is. I think it's our role to check that out. That's what I did at the OMT. I was happy to be surprised at what I heard, what I got back. But I have also asked all the parties with which the Minister says he is constantly talking. That will be the case, but this decision has not given that impression to those parties. Let me say it very carefully. They just got the announcement. So you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u25	Short. We agree that we need to check. You did. You yourself conclude that the OMT does, as the Minister says, believe that it can be safe. The Minister will undoubtedly continue these talks. And then you're gonna vote in favour. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u26	I'm not voting for anything. What am I gonna vote for? For my own motion, I hope you will, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr Van Meenen asked if there was any light between the OMT's opinion and what the minister said. The Minister said that he didn't. Now Mr Van Meenen is pleased to be surprised that the Minister is indeed right. That says something about his expectations regarding the truth of the Minister's answers. I find that striking. I also find the observation made in the motion striking, namely that there has been no consultation. The Minister says: we have constant consultations, at all levels and with all kinds of parties. Then you can say: I want more consultation, I want a photo moment, or I want people all to sit behind a table with a nameplate sometime. It's possible. But if you say that there has been no consultation, then again the question is simply: do you believe at some point what the minister says? If he says there's a meeting going on and this has been happening all the time, do you believe that or don't you believe that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u28	The motion states: "Confirming that in taking this specific decision there has been no consultation with the field of education." I know there has been a lot of consultation, but not about this decision. That's one. The second thing is that the whole "insurrection" is, let me put it this way, it is in the fact that everyone has the feeling that there is a light between the decision of the cabinet and that of the OMT. I asked about it. I'm looking for the truth. That's my part. Then it's not enough for me if the Minister says so. That's just how I am. That is why I asked for confirmation in the debate. In view of the time, it was also very unclear whether I would get it on time. Then I went to ask for it myself. And indeed, to my great pleasure there was no light in it. Well, fine. I'm open to that, too. But I am not prepared to say in advance: the whole field is in turmoil, but it will all be; I am listening to the Minister and then we will know. That's not how I'm gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u29	No, you had a fair question, because there was indeed a lack of clarity as to what is going on with the OMT and how it relates to this decision. The minister says there's no light in it. You don't believe that. You'll check it out. You appear to be wrong; the Minister appears to be right. Fine. Now you say: there has been no consultation. The Minister says: there are many ways of consulting; we are constantly talking to each other. And again, you say, I don't believe the Minister. That's okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u30	Well, and that's confirmed, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr Segers has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u32	Also given this episode about the OMT, where you have in fact checked yourself and admitted spatially that it is indeed not that bad, it would in any case be more convenient for the wording of the motion to say that there should be additional consultation, or one more time, or that you would indeed like a photo moment. Again, that may be; these are legitimate wishes. But don't say again, after this history: there has been no consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u33	Yeah, but I checked that too, and it wasn't there. There was just an announcement five minutes before the decision came. But if I help Mr Segers to support this motion by taking that statement out, I am happy to do so. But I just don't feel like he's gonna back her up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u34	I do not want to complicate the fact-checking dilemma even more than it is, but we will find ourselves in a crazy situation when Mr Van Meenen says that he called the OMT, that they actually agree with the Minister and that there is no light between the OMT opinion and the Minister's actions. In the meantime, we are receiving a letter, which Mr Van Meenen has not been able to read, but we are, in which the OMT says: the OMT is delivering an opinion, and then it is up to the Cabinet to decide on measures on the basis of that opinion, and we do not see any reason to issue a new opinion. So it doesn't say: the Minister is taking our advice. It says: that is not up to us at all and we are not going to make any statements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u35	At least it's mine. That's all I can say about it. I'm standing here to represent my own point of view. I can give you the phone number so you can make a call. Then you know it, too. If I ask if the OMT thinks the cabinet is implementing the decision, then I should not ask the cabinet but the OMT. So I don't need a letter like that, anyway, because I want to hear it from the OMT. I also asked the Minister to take care of that. That letter's not coming. So I called myself. Seems like my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u36	That letter will come out; I'm just quoting it. The Minister has done exactly what you want to do, namely ask the OMT if it can say whether or not the cabinet proposal is in line with the OMT opinion. A little bit domestically the OMT says: we are not going to say that because that is not our job; you are here to make decisions and not us. That's the spirit of that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yeah, right. But it's a letter from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u38	Passing through the OMT's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u39	In my words, let me get this straight: he says the OMT doesn't want to say it. Well, fine, they'll tell me. I'm open to that. Let me make it clear why I think that's so important. I notice that a lot of people are following what is happening here, because it is a crucial decision. I would also like to make it quite clear that I would like to see these schools open as soon as possible. But I also want us to regain confidence in the field. I just notice that this is the jumping point in confidence: is there a light between what the OMT says and what the Cabinet does? It is very important that we establish that. Then I think it's fair of me to say, okay, I've tried to find out as much as I can and called the OMT, and that's their message. I just like that news, because I want nothing more than to open it. But then I say something else: it is not the case that the whole education is glued to the tube to listen to this. So there is still a great deal of work to be done, because the conversation that should have taken place as far as I am concerned before the decision was taken has not taken place. Local conditions are not taken into account. That's why I'm filing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u40	This is a two-minute debate, just to put forward a motion as quickly as possible. Mrs. Michon, just a moment, very briefly, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u41	D66's colleague began his term by saying that his party as an educational party is following all this very closely. I note that this educational party does not just take the view of the parents and all those students who want to go to school now. In the debate we discussed in detail that we are now going to try to keep schools as open as possible and that we want to meet teachers and students as far as possible by working as safely as possible; wherever that is possible we can take measures, wherever that is not possible. How does Mr Van Meenen see his point in the light of the fact that all these children simply have to go to school as soon as possible in view of their backwardness and mental health?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u42	Great, great, I couldn't have thought of it better myself. This is a very curious question. This is what I discussed in detail in the debate. Of course I want to. I just said it again. But I don't want it without conditions. I like education. I love students. I even love parents. But I also love teachers. It cannot be that we receive medical advice from "you have to do it and so on in the context of teacher safety" and that we then say: I love students so much, we do not do that. That's not how I'm gonna be, and that's not how I'm gonna do it. So I am only glad that it can be done in this way, but I would add that the Minister really needs to do a lot more on the basis of what he should have organised in advance as far as I was concerned, because we would not have had to have had the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u43	Last point. I note that even after the schools open, the Minister talks with everyone in the field of education to see how that goes and that he will inform us about it through the constant monitor. We talked about that this morning. I look forward to that and I expect Mr Van Meenen to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u44	I am always looking forward to discussions about education, which cannot be carried out often enough. Only, I note that in this case, this particular decision did not take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u45	Fine. I would very much like to see the Minister and then we can also vote on both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u46	I have another question about the motion. I just don't think it's clear. The motion calls for an interview. Of course, we are all in favour of the Minister talking to the educational field as often as possible. Sincerely. There's got to be support. But what exactly is Mr Van Meenen asking? Is that supposed to be a conversation after which the minister will come out with the education field with the statement: we're out? Who should the Minister listen to more? We know from recent times that it is quite difficult to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u47	We all note that there are major concerns in education about this decision. They are partly related to that difference between OMT... As far as I'm concerned, that is out of the world, but that doesn't make those concerns go away at all. I will give the Minister an opportunity to make his decision legal, so to speak, but I hope that he will take into account, following a ruling by the Chamber, that this obligation on 7 June does not mean that we must all keep it hard from that moment on but that we can take account of situations in which that is the case. Let him pick that up in that conversation. That has not happened so far, and that is why this resistance is coming. That's my idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u48	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u49	But we all want individual situations to be taken into account, as well as the Minister's discussions. My question is exactly what should be the status of that conversation. If the unions say they don't want to open up and tell the students to open up, who should the minister listen to? Is that what the conversation's supposed to be or is it going to be a whole different conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u50	The Minister has his own responsibility, the unions have their own responsibility and we have a responsibility. The Minister has made a decision here without consultation, so let me say briefly. In doing so, he has a great responsibility on his shoulders. That is fine, and he should know that, but I do not think that we should make this the Chamber's problem now. The Minister must resolve this problem by talking to all the parties I have mentioned. I hope that this will lead to agreement on the implementation of this obligation, because there are still many degrees to be achieved. Apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u51	No, no, that's fine. Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. Two motions have been tabled. We're gonna listen to the Minister now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber once again for the opportunity to speak today about the decision taken by the Cabinet on Saturday. This is why it is important that we do so in the Catshuis, for the main reason that, if we want it to enter 31 May and ultimately require it to take place on 7 June, there should be an official follow-up, so that the Chamber has the opportunity to speak about it and, if it does not wish to do so, to stop that decision. That is a competence and a responsibility that you have, and we have discussed it with each other. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint has finally indicated that he believes that the 1.5 metres should be maintained and that they can only be lifted once every teacher has been vaccinated once. That is not the trade-off that the cabinet has made. Indeed, we can see that vaccination is now increasing at a very rapid rate. We have now arrived at the birth year 1971. That means the 40s are coming into the picture right now to be pricked. I have also indicated in general consultation that if we look at the average age of teachers, it is more than 40% older than 50 years, about 42%. In short, they have already had their first shot or are on the nomination to be pricked very quickly. In addition, the vulnerable are also protected. That admits that there is going to be more and more vaccination at a rapid rate, but waiting for all the teachers to be vaccinated means that we just can't do it. That is not the balance that the cabinet has made and which we do not think we should make on the basis of the OMT opinion. I will come back to that later, also on the basis of the note. So I dissuade this motion, because it means de facto that it simply cannot go on. Then you must also stop the afterhang. You have the same authority. Mrs Westerveld rightly draws attention to two points, first of all to the vulnerable teachers and pupils or their families. This was also the subject of a general exchange of views. Mr De Hoop also drew attention to this again. I understand that very well, Mr President, through you. This has always been the reason in recent months that we have always said: we must ultimately offer tailor-made solutions at school level. At the moment when parents, students and teachers are concerned, share that with what I formally call the competent authority, i.e. with the school leader or the director or whoever is above you in the school, and try to find solutions with each other. Our experience is that that goes simply well in 999 of the 1,000 times. As far as we are concerned, that is once again the intrusive message in the direction of education. Besides, I don't even have to say that, because that's how they always work. Also in non-corona time, that is of course always the approach, but now once more emphasized. Mrs Westerveld says that the use of self-tests should be put to the test. That's right. That's my message, too. Fortunately, we have seen positive effects from the pilots in secondary education. That was really nice, that was really a much greater willingness to participate than we had previously thought. 'Cause you do make a certain assessment. Of course, that is not quite the same as the situation that is about to arise, so even now we will simply have to fight hard again to ensure that there is as much participation as possible. The most beautiful thing would be of course if everyone did it, but we try to get as far together as possible. And don't say it's okay if we've reached a certain percentage. No, full stakes. This requires something from teachers, because they themselves should also participate. It requires something from students, it asks something from the parents of the students, it asks something from the school and from the whole world around it. I hope that this responsibility will really be taken up, because this is crucial in order to ensure, in the end, that this further opening that we want so much with each other can be done safely for the children. So we will do everything we can to promote it. You know that the students themselves have offered to contribute to this. In general, I have indicated the steps that need to be taken. In the light of time, I will not repeat all this now. So we're gonna work hard on that. I hope you will take your role in that too, because that can also help. That is also a contribution to the greater purpose. To facilitate and support schools, I say to Mr De Hoop, is also what we want to do, in all kinds of ways, with example letters, with instruction videos. We are also going to address the young people. In short, we will. Schools can always use helpdesks when they have questions. We have also worked in this way over the past period and, of course, we will continue to do so now. I am glad to hear that Mr Van Meenen, because of his own research, is also part of the Chamber, that you are also controlling the government, so that is just fine. I have given you an honest answer, as I always do, and so have my colleagues. That has indeed been confirmed. The way in which we carry out the OMT opinion is in accordance with how the OMT intended it. Mr Kwint then refers to the sentence cuts I have used. The OMT advises the cabinet. It may be very formal to put it that way, but you can read that in this letter. You always have the opportunity to talk to the OMT about their advice. Then they don't talk about the cabinet and what the cabinet does, but about how they see their advice. That has not happened now because there was not much time between this debate and the moment we took this decision, but the OMT has made it very clear through us that they do not see any reason to issue a new opinion. A well-informed person knows what is said there. I therefore stick to what I have said myself, namely that we are carrying out the OMT opinion and that we are implementing it in this way. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1237 by Mr Van Meenen. That's not because I don't want to talk. We are really in permanent conversation, but ultimately it is the cabinet that makes the decision. I told you in general consultation exactly how it went. We have ordered an x-number of directors of different origins in the Catshuis to make the decision at the time the OMT advice was there. Why there and why at that time? That's very unusual, because the Cat House is never decision-making. That was because, if we wanted it to continue, there had to be a follow-up that had to start immediately. That's what happened. It was a letter from my colleague from VWS, also on my behalf. I was the one who explained the decision orally that day. That is also why we sent that letter directly: that a follow-up has taken place. If you wish to suspend what is contained in this decision, you must stop the follow-up. We've got a afterhang. It needs to be approved by the Chamber. You have that right, by the way, but then you have to stop the afterhang. Then we'll have to start over again with everything and everything. Then I know it won't happen again in the near future. That's how it is. I remain in conversation, both official and personal, with the whole field of education, also with the unions that we knew in advance that we would rather have kept the situation that we had in recent months, at least one of the unions. We have chosen differently. It is up to you whether or not to agree. We're in constant conversation, but it's still a cabinet decision in the end. For the implementation we will also talk to them to ensure that it is done in a careful way. So that means next Monday as a choice. I know there are schools that use it. I also know that there are schools that don't. From 7 June it is just for all schools, with the customization as I have indicated towards schools, as we have done in the past period more often... Unfortunately we have that experience from when we made decisions that also brought with them concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u53	I attach myself to being very specific in what I intend to do with the motion. That is not stopping the decision. If I had wanted to do that, I would have submitted it to the Chamber. This will give the Minister the opportunity to oblige the schools to enter on 7 June. I would argue that this discussion should take place and that it should discuss the extent to which this obligation is exercised by the Minister. That is another choice of the Minister. The Minister is not obliged to allow the obligation to enter into force on 7 June, at least not for all schools or where there are special circumstances. Look at the messages we have received from the vso, practical education and so on. That is the intention of this motion and not of stopping the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u54	I have serious objections to the remark that this discussion will take place. We're talking all the time. Another thing is that a decision is taken by a cabinet. The cabinet takes the decision. Also given the situation that if we wanted it to go into effect, that decision had to be taken at the time when we were given the OMT opinion, it was ultimately the same. We have indeed said: this has been decided by the Cabinet. You will receive all the information and we will simply remain in consultation, as we have done in the previous days, even during the Whitsuntide weekend, in order to respond as much as possible to the concerns that exist. But the decision stands and it is up to you whether you accept that decision or not. I hear you say you accept it, Mr. Van Meenen. Then we will also work in accordance with that decision, with all the room for the sensitivities that exist. But that's how we've always worked. You also know me as someone who has always tried to work together with education in recent years, but with different responsibilities and positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u55	We can talk for a very long time about whether or not that conversation took place and whether or not it was a conversation. I wasn't there, at least I can tell you. Others tell me that they have not experienced this as a conversation; let me put it this way. It doesn't matter. We're where we are now. Now the question arises as to whether we are stopping your decision; the cabinet decides, but we can stop it. I'm not. I would ask the Minister, with this motion, to have another discussion, let me put it this way; I would also like to put that in the motion, if that would help us to discuss whether we can now allow this obligation to be dealt with everywhere. You have the right to do it, but we have heard so many noises and there is still so much noise on the line that I ask you: do the conversation and see if 7 June is feasible for everyone. Deal with that wisely. That is the question of this motion, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u56	This motion causes noise on the line, because it has to be clear: from Monday it is allowed, from 7 June it has to be. And again, of course, taking very specific situations into account, it is not generic, because we are not going to take a gram off that at school level sometimes something else goes. Then we'll look at it the way we always have. I really dissuade your motion. I don't need a motion to talk when I'm doing it all the time. It would also be very strange if this would suddenly have to be enforced by means of a motion. If you read the motion strictly, you can also stop the decision now, because the decision stands and is therefore generically in force for all schools. That's how it works legally. I can't take an ounce off that, either. That's a choice. I respect it if you decide otherwise and as Mr Kwint says, we will only do so if they are all vaccinated. That can be fully respected, but this is what the cabinet stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u57	Clear. Thank you. I thank the Minister for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u58	We're going to vote at 1.35 p.m. I'll suspend for ten minutes.
