ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u1	We were wondering why it was so crowded in the field at D66. Then someone said "maybe a maiden speech," and it turned out to be. The next item is the amendment of the Public Health Act to include a municipal task to carry out prenatal home visits, Section 35593. We have six speakers from the Chamber. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State. I'm glad you're back with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u2	I would now like to give the floor to our party pig this afternoon, the Maiden Speaker of Service, Mrs Paulusma of the D66 Group, who for the first time addresses us from this magical place. We're gonna sit extra tight for it, sharpen our ears and listen to her. I call Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u3	That's very kind of you, thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a law with a long and complicated name, which is actually just about one thing, namely the power of good care close to people. That is precisely why I find it so special that I can stand here today. Because as a neighborhood nurse I came home a lot, so I could support people in their own familiar environment, for example because they were sick or physically limited, or because they just wanted to really talk about a treatment, a problem or some extra help. In Groningen I cycled a lot of kilometers and went from address to address, with good weather and bad weather, and almost always with a big smile on my face. Because being a neighborhood nurse is the most beautiful profession there is. Mr. Chairman. I have very valuable memories of that time. Because it's shaped me, too. I remember those very first house calls. Because I was very young and rang the doorbell to completely strangers. I found that very exciting, because what was waiting for me and who would open it? Now, many years later, I often think: that feeling of doubt had the people on the other side of the door probably also. 'Cause who's calling today? Who's gonna step right over the threshold with me like that? I've always considered it very special that people let you into their homes and into their lives. Sometimes the visit and conversation were very light; other times the worries and tears prevailed, for example among family members in the final phase of a lover's life. But trusting people at some very vulnerable moment in another, in me, has always touched me. That's what it's doing now, I see. Because not only the door opened, but often also the heart. We both knew we needed each other to move on. As a neighborhood nurse I swung legs, learned to prick blood sugar and helped put on support stockings. For care is not only about alleviating and softening pain; care can also be about moving forward, about moving forward with life, even if it has stood still for a while. For example, that sweet lady I came to regularly, with whom I sometimes took my children, could not only start her day, but could also go to her favourite card club in the afternoon. That's a concern, too. Mr. Chairman. I've been through it from the other side, too. At a difficult time in my life and that of my family, I had to open the door myself to a district nurse. In the meantime, I was a city councilman in Groningen, and my husband got very seriously ill. He also had to undergo extensive surgery and eventually recover for months. Now we were the ones who had to ring the bell, who needed help, who could use support, who opened the door of our house and our lives. And it was so nice that when someone else took the lead for a while and thus gave our family back some freedom, but also let our children be children. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm a member of parliament for D66. That has also had a small run-up. But the treasures of knowledge and experience from care are always with me. That means listening, asking and switching quickly if you have to. It means joining the world of the other, stepping over the threshold, trusting each other and giving each other space. 'Cause that's the only way we're gonna take good care of people. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the discussion of the bill we are discussing today. Let us be honest: no one in this room remembers the first thousand days of his or her life. But just these thousand days determine the health and well-being of someone at a later age, not only physically, but also psychologically. If we can make sure that more children get off to a good start with early warning and personal guidance close to people at home, then that is a profit. The present bill has exactly that purpose. My group therefore supports it. The idea is actually quite simple: if an obstetrician meets someone in a vulnerable situation or at a vulnerable moment, then, in consultation and always in conversation, an application can be made to youth health care and then a so-called prenatal home visit. On the basis of the situation, further voluntary support can then be offered. It's a simple bill that can really make a difference. However, I still have a number of questions in connection with the written round. Mr. Chairman. I start with the execution, because things can still be written down so beautifully in the law, but if it doesn't work out that way in practice, they're just fine words. Much remains unclear about the implementation of the law. For example, in May of this year, a hand-in-hand hand-in-hand presentation would have been drawn up which would "also address the possible framework conditions needed in the work processes." That sounds rather vague to me and perhaps also to others in this Chamber. So I have the following questions. The law should enter into force on 1 July. Do all parties know what is expected of them? Is that hand-out indeed ready? What's the situation on the ground? Is support provided from the Ministry, for example, for the macro level approach to personal guidance? I am referring, in fact, to the move from policy to practice. Mr. Chairman. Then the target group. It is good that attention will be paid to the voluntary nature of the prenatal home visit, but in the legislative process so far too little attention has been paid to the people who actually do it to us. I am talking about pregnant women and/or families in a vulnerable situation or at a vulnerable moment. I immediately acknowledge, also from my experience, that this is not an easy target group to reach, but the only attempt I see in the written answer is that the definition of "vulnerability" has been tested by submitting it to a mother's council. Hence the following questions. How is the target group of the legislative proposal involved in its implementation so far? How does the Secretary of State ensure that pregnant women and/or families are properly involved at local level? What ideas does he have about this, besides, for example, involving this so-called mother's council? Then there are a few brief questions. The amendment will also apply to the public bodies Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. We read in the law that the organisation of the jgz on each island is different. Therefore, the possibilities of implementation will have to be considered and separate frameworks will have to be established... I see the Secretary of State nodding. He knows the lyrics. It's a mouthful, but the practical question is: how are we doing? Are the public bodies also ready for implementation? Finally, Mr President, the final question. How can we avoid creating something bureaucratic and trying to be implemented in practice here in the house, but it will not come of it? How do we make sure we can make that bridge? Given yesterday's Accountability debate and the role of the VWS Ministry in this, I would also like to include Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. For viewers at home, this means that legislative proposals should address objectives, effectiveness and efficiency. I would really like better answers from the Secretary of State on these points than in the written round. I would also like those answers to be backed up by figures. Mr President, I will conclude. As a district nurse in this Chamber, I am committed to good care close to those who respond to the other's question. That can only be done on the basis of trust. As far as I'm concerned, that starts here, in this room. Because although we are very different from each other, we all have a day when it's a bad day, or maybe two, or three, or a whole week. But I hope that this house can also be a safe environment in which we give each other the space and respect to be who we are, to achieve together the best for the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u4	Look, that's a maiden speech from the book. It is also wonderful that you can connect your own practice, your own past, with today's subject in one smooth movement. That doesn't happen to everyone. It's a good idea for you to take the viewers back home and explain something. We always like a piece of populism here. And you have not used up the three minutes of your speaking time. So every president will be happy with you. You're gonna make a great MP; I'm sure of it. It is an honour and a pleasure to be the first to congratulate you on this. I'll suspend for a few minutes for the other congratulations. Congratulations again!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u5	We would like to congratulate Mr Van Meenen on the birth of his new grandson. He has kept us in suspense in the presidency app for a few days, but I had to ask again how things were going. I would like to give the floor to the second speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u6	I think I need a little more minutes, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my heartfelt congratulations to Mrs Paulusma for her beautiful maiden speech, a very nice story about her former work as a district nurse, with a personal note as well. That brought me back to my own mother on her deathbed. After we had no one for a few weeks, a couple of neighborhood nurses were willing to work 48 hours, which allowed my mother to die worthy of the place where she loved to do it at home. I'm very grateful to all the district nurses for that. Thank you! Mr. Chairman. Then there's the law. The development of a child begins before birth. During pregnancy, the basis is laid for all kinds of organs that allow the child to grow and develop. Support during pregnancy, at birth and in the early years of a child are therefore important and well regulated in our country. The obstetrician, gynecologist, maternity care and youth health care play an important role in the lives of parents and children. Not always are the conditions in which a woman has a child optimal. It is the intention of this change of law to do something about it. These kind of good intentions are noble, but sometimes it is difficult to contain good intentions in a law, in words. That's what makes question marks. This change of law aims to make the organisation of the prenatal home visit legally mandatory for municipalities. However, in the Windows Start Monitor of 2020 we read that two thirds of the municipalities are already doing this. I ask the Secretary of State if he has investigated why a third of the municipalities do not do this. For example, have these municipal councils themselves come to the conclusion that it has no added value for them? Why does the Secretary of State intend to disregard the autonomy of municipalities with an obligation to do so? If two thirds of the municipalities already organise a prenatal home visit, the question that should be answered is what the experiences of these municipalities are. Has this been investigated? And what were the conclusions, I ask the Secretary of State. And, not entirely unimportant, what are the experiences of the pregnant women and the families themselves? I don't find much information on this. Moreover, I assume that the obligation to offer the house visit by municipalities does not mean that it will also be compulsory for parents to participate. After all, all aspects of youth health care are not mandatory. It is a voluntary service from the government, a service to be proud of, but a voluntary service. I found it rather strange myself to find a letter in my mailbox when I was pregnant, which said that youth health care would be behind the front door at a time indicated by them, when I simply had to work as a working woman. I thanked you very much, but was treated uncomfortable on the phone. It was made as if the visit was mandatory. Again, it's not. I had to stick to my own footsteps to make this clear to the employee of youth health care. I therefore believe that there should be clear communication towards parents, but also towards the staff of youth health care. The legal text deserves clarification on this point. I therefore support the amendment to item No. 8, by members Van der Staaij and Van den Berg. I wonder what happens when an obstetrician advises a house visit, but the pregnant doesn't want this. Is there going to be a record somewhere and who? At the youth health care, at the general practitioner, the municipality or at Safe Home? Is this gonna be followed up? Let me get this straight. As far as we are concerned, there must be no urge or compulsion. It is important that this law makes clear where the limit lies behind the front door of pregnant women. Family planning and education are primarily the responsibility of parents. Too much infringement of the right to respect for people's private lives must be avoided. Then the risk factors, as indicated in the law amendment. The urgent risk factors are clear, namely: domestic violence, addiction problems, homelessness and acute psychiatric problems. Everyone understands that it is good to offer extra support to pregnant people in this situation. However, the other risk factors are extremely debatable and sometimes downright shocking and stigmatizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u7	There is a question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u8	I am very pleased with the words of Mrs Agema that it must really be voluntary. These are also the concerns of the CDA and therefore of the SGP. Mrs Agema comes to exactly what we, as CDA, still have concerns about, namely how to determine the target group. Some of the criteria, Mrs Agema said, are obvious. However, if we look at this general definition of the European Union, that is what you will hear in my contribution, I think that 40% of the Netherlands will be covered in the future. Can Mrs. Agema give another reflection on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u9	Yes, I can. But I can also just continue with my lines. I was just getting started, and I'm going through another page and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u10	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u11	But in short, it scares the hell out of me. I think it is far too broad. If you're fat, you're basically a risk factor. That is far too far, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u12	You're continuing. Oh, Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u13	Just a little while longer. We are also working on an amendment. I hope that I can also count on the support of Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u14	I'd love to. I look at it with all my love, and maybe I'll even sign with it. I support the amendment on item No. 8 anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u15	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u16	The other risk factors are extremely debatable. When, for example, are there financial problems? Is that someone with a college debt or someone who's gonna be red by the end of the month? Having little money doesn't have to be a barrier to having all the stuff at home before the arrival of a baby in order. Family and friends always want to help, the recycling shop is full of second-hand baby stuff, baby stuff can be paid from special assistance, and there is even a foundation for baby stuff, where pregnant people can go. I also mention the risk factor of avoiding care. When will that happen? Perfectly normal parents who have everything in order for their baby to arrive should simply be able to cancel the appointment behind their front door without being classified as a care avoidr. When is someone a carer, I ask the Secretary of State. And then the education skills as a risk factor. Well, I guess every new parent has a moment of uncertainty as to whether he can handle this particular task. But when does someone have insufficient educational skills? And what are the criteria for that? Who decides whether this is the case? We do not all have the same standards and values when it comes to raising our children. I find it stigmatizing to consider the physical and/or medical limitation of a pregnant woman as a risk factor for having things in order for her child at home. I'm angry about that, too. I'm someone with a medical condition myself, and I don't need someone behind my front door. The fact that this is still possible in 2021 is absolutely shocking to me. Then the risk factors surrounding lifestyle. Everyone knows that a pregnant woman should not smoke or drink, but is it up to the government to go beyond providing information and thus get behind the front door? Or is it up to the pregnant person himself and the family and friends to make that talkable? Or take overweight; I already mentioned it. Which BMI will apply to belonging to the risk profile? Can I have a pound more? Our youth is much heavier than the youth of 20 or 30 years ago. Who's gonna decide that? The government has also made it with all the warnings around food itself that more and more pregnant people are losing out. They no longer know which food may or may not be used and therefore switch to the frequent consumption of junk food, because it is refined and guaranteed to boil. That it's full of fat, well, it'll be forgotten. And then move. Does a pregnant person who, on the advice of the obstetrician or gynecologist, has to have bed rest suddenly get a home visit? Having a slightly intellectual limitation is also a risk factor. I can go along reasonably well with that, but who says that someone with an intellectual disability can't be in order at home, probably with the support of parents, family and friends? The big pink elephant in the room is of course here that pregnant people from all over the world have habits that we don't really understand here. Don't have a crib, because the baby can sleep in bed with Mother. Without ever having visited an obstetrician at home gave birth, among the dirty sheets, which are thrown into a corner afterwards. Children who are not even notified to the civil status. Lots of little kids get in a very small apartment. No, the Secretary of State can actually visit and stigmatize all pregnant people if they have restrictions or are bedridden during pregnancy, but the women who are involved remain unnamed. I find that worrying, because how can you make a law, and how well-meaning can you make a law if you don't name the people who it's about? Finally, I do not support the argument that the compulsory provision of a prenatal home visit is actually going to help families. It seems that this legislative amendment is mainly intended to please the good sense of politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u17	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm a fan of the book of Proverbs in the Bible. On the one hand because there are several statements that teach you to relativize, but on the other hand because there are also beautiful, concise wisdoms in it. Like Proverbs 22:6: "Learn a child from an early age to the right path, and it will not depart from it when it has grown old." In other words: if you invest in a child, it will benefit society as a whole. The CDA therefore strongly supports the fact that children and families sometimes receive some extra support. 'Cause sometimes you don't make it alone and you need a helping hand. Therefore, the CDA supports the importance of pre-school education for children whose language and/or development is lagging behind, as pre-school education offers these children a good start in primary school. Every child must have access to further training and not just the children of parents who can afford expensive tutoring. That's why the CDA wants to set up a digital primary school. Then sick children and children with disabilities or homeowners can continue to take lessons in the most important subjects from home. So yes, the possibility of a house visit is a top idea. And sometimes you have to offer that helping hand even if it isn't explicitly asked for. That is why we are very much in favour of sometimes interfering where necessary. An organization like the Salvation Army can confirm its importance. But the CDA still has a lot of questions about how this idea is being implemented, and whether it is the best way. Firstly, the interference that is needed in a given situation can already be given under the Youth Act. The municipality has all the means and possibilities to intervene if it thinks it is in the best interests of the child. For example, municipalities can already proactively visit vulnerable people through district teams; so to speak, "extremely working." And care-avoidants can be helped on the right path through a so-called drive path. Besides, you've got the whole youth protection chain. I think it is important that the public authorities behave modestly in this respect. The government cannot guarantee equal opportunities for every child. Society can't be made that way. Denying that will create a whole laundry list of aid workers, and that really doesn't just have positive consequences. Mrs Agema also referred to this. Let's talk about the voluntary offer of help. What happens when a helper visits a family that is apparently seen as vulnerable, but refuses to help? Does a paramedic like that go away to never come back? No, a paramedic goes away and comes back with backup. And the CDA doesn't want that. The CDA therefore wants much better to be anchored in the law that the offer is really voluntary and that after two refusals a notification is not made at Safe Home. That is why we have also endorsed the SGP amendment. Second. We now consider the definition to be far too broad. If you take out all the elements separately, 40% of the families will be covered by the law. We would therefore like to table an amendment to limit this much better. Third. The CDA believes that you should first complete other plans instead of starting new plans again. In the Monitor Kansrijke Start 2020, published in January, it says that 80 municipalities are not yet connected, which only 48% have a joint plan, offering only 37% precaution, offering only 20% after birth Centering Parenting, to name but a few figures. A lot of room for improvement, I'd say. The monitor also states that 65% of the municipalities apparently already offer prenatal home visits, in anticipation of the law. In addition, there are already good programs to support future parents, such as VoorZorg or Sturdy Parenthood. What do we understand now? The Secretary of State will stop with Kansrijke Start at the end of 2021 and will start with something new in 2022. The CDA has always learned that you have to hold something to achieve. Better to execute a non-optimal plan excellent than to start new plans over and over again. Please provide a response and explanation from the Secretary of State on the necessity of this law and how it has been with Kansrijke Start since 2022. The monitor also states that 5% of families do not use maternity care. Against this background: do we know which families they are and what about the implementation of my motion, together with Mrs Bergkamp, to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of giving extra maternity care to the very vulnerable families of 0.5% to 1%? Fourth. In our view, the legislative proposal does not fully comply with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, as Mrs Paulusma referred to it. We have questions about budgetary support. The bill adds 5.3 million euros per year to the Municipal Fund for the next four years. There is an average budget of €190 for a house visit; two and a half hours is estimated. Next, on page 6 of the explanatory statement, the Secretary of State states: "Parties consider it important that obstetrics, maternity care and jgz jointly assess, in each individual situation, whether a prenatal home visit is desirable and important, but also who is best placed to carry out this home visit and the subsequent desired care assistance." It is therefore not surprising that the VNG indicates on page 9: "The VNG indicates that approximately two hours are available for the preparation, coordination, administration of the prenatal home visit. And this is, according to the UNG, completely inadequate. The VNG also states that the national budget for prenatal home visits does not take into account coordination and administrative costs for municipalities." Conclusion of the CDA: the money goes, if not entirely or for a very large part, to administration and discussion among themselves and there is no money left for the visit as such. Fifth. How is the results monitored? Now, for example, we see the percentage of offerings from Centering Pregnancy and Centering Parenting, but is the number of participants also monitored? Mr. Chairman. As the English say: I rest my case. In summary, the CDA is enthusiastic about the idea but not yet about the implementation of the proposal. We look forward to the Secretary of State's response. Ideally, the CDA Prosperous Start would like to extend from the first thousand days to the start of primary education, because precisely those early years are of great importance for healthy physical, social and mental development. In my own initiative paper "Towards less disease and better care: Take care of maintaining solidarity" of February this year, I advocate this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the costs of extending the Probable Start of 1,000 days to the start of primary education? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see I'm still in my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u19	Yes. If I may give you another small position: you had signed up for fifteen minutes and for our planning it is always pleasant if you give up the time you are actually going to use. That's a small request for the future. Then I'm not making a big deal about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u21	Mrs Westerveld has signed up for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u22	I'm gonna do my best! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today aims to provide better care and support for pregnant women in a vulnerable situation during pregnancy and the first years of the child. Of course, no one can be against that, although I have heard quite rightly comments from several colleagues. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have a question about the percentage that is going to be taken out of. Internationally, it is assumed that 16.5% of children can never have half a child, but I understand that this includes premature birth or low birth weight. The explanatory statement states that this may be the result of social risk factors or a lack of protection factors. In the Netherlands, we assume more than 28,000 situations, assuming 170,000 births per year. My first question concerns that. Is this international figure fully applicable to the Netherlands? Are we doing better or less good? Is it 14% or 16.5%? Because I read different figures in the explanatory memorandum. Mr. Chairman. Our other questions are not so much about the purpose of the law, but about its implementation. Actually, I do agree with a lot of other colleagues. We know more and more about the importance of the first thousand days for the development of a child. We also know that good guidance and help for parents can help to give their child the best opportunities. This law gives municipalities the task of providing prenatal home visits to women in a vulnerable situation. Of course, this fits in with municipal tasks in the field of prevention and health, but it is not quite clear to me what this means in practice and whether your responsibilities are not going to invest very fragmentedly. I have a few questions about that. As we understand it now, every woman, if she so wishes, has an extensive intake interview with the midwife. It asks her about the situation and health risks, for example whether she smokes or drinks. That conversation brings out a lot of information. It is therefore intended that a vulnerable woman can be informed after this conversation that she can contact the GGD. The G.D.D.'s gonna start talking to this woman again, and with her partner, I hope. But how does the Secretary of State prevent all different bodies from doing the same? The municipality via the district teams, the midwife and the GGD all get information and may ask some of the same questions. You've got doctors, too. It seemed to us after reading the law and the explanatory statement that there was such a fragmented landscape. For the youth care portfolio, this Secretary of State and I often speak to each other. There, of course, we also see the problem that there are numerous bodies around a family that sometimes all interfere with a part of the care or help. We know that sometimes there are a lot of conversations about such a family. Unfortunately, we also know that too often there are so many calls that a large part of the budget goes there and not to the actual delivery of aid. I would really like to avoid that I think the Secretary of State shares that, but I would like to ask him how he intends to do that. With this law there are all good intentions, but the real aid is ultimately not there. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know which healthcare provider is now responsible for this care coordination. Is that the midwife now? Is that the GP? Is that the G.D.D.? How is it ensured that all relevant information is returned without too much privacy? Because of course this bill affects privacy, also in terms of the effectiveness of the law. The law has also been amended on the basis of the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. The initiative now lies with the women themselves. We think that's very good. But you still have a lot of information, invested in different agencies. Mr. Chairman. We also know that people who are in a vulnerable situation often avoid care. That's not for nothing. There is also sometimes mistrust towards government organisations. I understand that well, because if things are not going so well at home, for example, there are relationship problems or that there may be smoking or drinking during pregnancy, then often such a woman or family itself knows that this is not good for the unborn baby. But of course one can be reluctant to ring the bell. People may be afraid that something will happen to a child, for example that it will be placed out of the house. I know that's a reason for some people in some families to avoid caring. So how does the Secretary of State view this? Did you think about that? Mr. Chairman. Then the next phase. Suppose a family in a vulnerable position accepts help, and there comes a conversation with the GGD or with another agency. The costs in this bill are based on two-hour calls, while experts themselves indicate that two hours can be very short. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: what if that conversation shows that there is a need for help? What interventions can the GGD do? Who's paying for this? It is also quite extraordinary that this bill does allocate money for a two-hour discussion, but it is then unclear what will happen if follow-up aid is needed. This 5.3 billion goes through municipalities to the Municipal Fund. Oh, sorry, it's 5.3 million. 5.3 million goes through municipalities to the Municipal Fund. But I'm getting signals from several municipalities that prevention is being cut. So how is that relative to each other? Mr. Chairman. Then I have questions about the scope of this bill. Now it is arranged that all women and families in a vulnerable situation are entitled, according to that calculation, to a prenatal home visit. Mrs Agema had very justified comments on how to define that. Does this not lead to stigmatisation of certain groups? I think it is quite right that there should be some comments on this, and I am happy to endorse that. There is an assumption in that reasoning, namely that all women who are in a vulnerable situation may have a child that is too light or is born prematurely. But there are probably many more women who may need help or women who are included in that group, but are not at all in a vulnerable situation. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State to clarify a little more about what is behind this calculation. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if there are any other ways to estimate which women would like help now and which women would not. In this light, there is also the possibility to ensure that all women who benefit from a prenatal home visit can get that when everyone is offered it. So you don't define a particular group anymore. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how he looks at this, because that would prevent a stigma being created or that some families might be stamped, whereas that does not have to be true at all. Mr. Chairman. Finally. This proposal concerns families in a vulnerable situation. Who they are may depend on many different factors. But I would like to ask the Secretary of State if there has been any talk with women and their partners themselves. There are very often laws on people and legislation is often based on systems, while it is much more important to know what people need. So who's involved? I would also like to tell the Secretary of State that we must ensure that a new law is put in place to bring new workers back to work, which sometimes misses the goal. Sometimes people actually go crazy about all those aid workers who arrive with good intentions but to whom they have to tell the same story over and over again. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to give an explicit answer to that question. How can we ensure that this bill does what it is intended to do? I've got nine seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u23	Nine seconds, congratulations. You may proceed to the next round. We are now going to listen to Mr Van der Staaij of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u24	Mr. Chairman. A safe place to grow up, where there is love and connectedness and where there is trust. A trusted environment is essential for the transfer of valuable standards and for personal development. Where families thrive, men, women and children bloom. There is therefore every reason for the government to pursue a positive family policy. Close families are a gold mine, not a cost. Unfortunately, not every child in the Netherlands is born into such a stable family. That is, of course, worrying, because the foundation that is laid in those first years is essential. We'll build on that for the rest of our lives. Before, during and after pregnancy, there may be conditions that affect the development of a child. Whether it is poverty or is related to stress, addiction problems or relationship problems; they can all be predictors of mental problems at a later age. From that science, from that knowledge, the cabinet also came in 2018 with the Action Programme Kansrijke Start. The aim was to offer every child the best possible start of their lives and an optimal chance of a good future. I have already indicated that the legislative proposal we are discussing today is in fact the result of that action programme. With this law, the cabinet also wants to oblige municipalities to offer women and families a prenatal home visit in a vulnerable situation. Mr. Chairman. My introduction already showed that the SGP is a warm supporter of a government policy that supports and protects parents, children, families. That is why we are also in principle in favour of this bill, also in relation to the purpose of this bill. It encourages municipalities to properly organise the cooperation between birth care and youth health care. I believe that such a prenatal home visit can be a small but crucial link to prevent or at least reduce problems of growing up and raising. However, we still have a number of questions about this proposal, as colleagues did. Some of them will agree. The Prosperous Start Action Programme focuses on the opportunities of each individual child, rather than strengthening the family as a social unit. The risk of this approach is that government involvement will extend to more or even more families. In the opinion of the SGP, a government that wants to keep an eye on all children whether they grow up sufficiently safe and healthy and have sufficient opportunities for development is too ambitious in the sense that it ignores the very nature of families and assumes a responsibility to which by far the majority of parents can properly implement and, as Mrs Agema stressed, sometimes with differences in values and standards, also on educational style and the like. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent this bill contributes to strengthening the family as a whole? Shouldn't the focus of policy be broader than just on the individual? Let us be clear: sometimes the family for children is a menacing environment. Think of domestic violence or abuse. Measures to protect children in unsafe or irresponsible situations, whether forced or not, where, of course, in our Code of Conduct, we also have instruments to protect children are inevitable. It is not obvious that then a simple home visit offers the solution. Other and more compelling instruments are available to the public authorities to act. This bill actually wants to be in favour of such heavy measures, but it is precisely this preventive approach that raises the question of how far you, as a government, want to go in interfering with families if there is no demand for help. How is this delineated? How do we prevent you, with all good intentions, from moving from one measure to another very quickly and from getting behind that door with a well-intentioned preventive policy too much and too much? Can the Secretary of State reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few specific points. First of all, the term "vulnerability," on which we have all been chewing in the preparation of this bill. It is a relatively vague term and a clear definition is lacking. The term also does not appear in the Public Health Act. On the basis of public information, municipalities must decide for themselves what vulnerability is and who is vulnerable. At the same time, we'll settle it by law now and you'll make higher demands on the concepts you use. Introducing a vague term like "vulnerability" does not help to provide that clarity. How does this bill relate to the debate on the definition of what youth aid is and what is not? Would the Secretary of State not also consider it undesirable for municipalities to draw up such a broad definition that almost every family is eligible? The examples have already been mentioned. How is it prevented that pregnant women or families are wrongly labeled as vulnerable and thus be labeled as being annoying to them? That's the key question I heard today in multiple inserts. I heard from Mrs van den Berg that she would like to make another attempt to include this in an amendment. I hope that this can be introduced in good time so that we can continue to talk about it. I've been looking at it myself, but it's still kind of hard to get it into the right definition. We are, of course, very interested in the efforts made by Mrs Van den Berg to this end. I would like to thank Mrs van den Berg and others for their support, with an amendment, for marking the voluntary nature of the house visit. In the explanatory documents, this is also the case and so intended, but we do think it is important to highlight in the legislative text that this does not create a new administrative coercive measure. Finally, Mr President. It was about personal experiences with house visits and the like. Everyone, of course, has their own thoughts on such a term. I know this Secretary of State is also the minister's son, but I think very much about the church circle when I visit the house. The church council came by every year to see if things were going well and what lived in the hearts of the people. That was my first experience with the concept of "home visit." I get that I'm gonna get D66 out of the tent with this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u25	But don't you want to finish your anecdote first? You're making it very exciting for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u26	It was more about the association with the concept of "home visit." In all the essential differences that exist, let me stress that... As a child I also found it exciting when the teacher or master came to visit home. Very nice that that happened; where else is that going to happen? I do not mention this example to idealise the past, but we are now talking from the role of the State, while we are also a social community. In all kinds of ways they visited at home, looked at them, there were ways of talking and influencing them and received signals that are also valuable. I just want to say that the old African saying 'a community is needed to raise a child', which was worked out nicely by the Health and Care Council in 2008. This social environment and the networks, in which children can grow up safely and parents are supported in education by, for example, family members, local residents and people from other social backgrounds, have been thinned. The question is also whether we are not going to make sure that care and help workers take the place of these grandmothers, aunts, neighbors, elders, teachers and so on. Then we'll ask the state. How can we also strengthen social links in society? For my group, that is the broader agenda that is also on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u27	It was open-minded, because for me, visiting the house certainly didn't have the association with a church visit. I had this a bit with the previous speakers, but I had to recover from my maiden speech, but I haven't heard the whole word "professionals." I think that professionals who come to visit the house leave room for the other to make the decision to refuse help or to take help. I'm actually curious how you look at that. Of course we discuss the law, but what is the role of the professionals, for which I made a fervent plea in my maiden speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u28	Mrs. Paulusma told me she was a neighborhood nurse. I will honestly admit that, when she was speaking, I thought: if such a person would enter, I would think "what a pleasant person." She immediately gives you the feeling that she is someone who meets others with respect, who is looking for a way to take each other one step further. That's a good example of how you can't catch everything in rules and protocols. It also has to do with whether it is someone who does the work with dedication and respect for the people. That doesn't mean taking over for a while and filling it out for others. It's about looking at how to use your own expertise and knowledge to help others find their way when it's hard to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u29	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the compliment. I dare say that it is true for a lot of my former colleagues that they are treating someone in such a way. I just heard you say something about vulnerability and its definition and about not wanting to take everything into account in rules and protocols. I think that's exactly the tension arch, which might give you some space for the professional. I think they could come out very well together. I can't wait to see how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u30	Yes. Two things. On the one hand, I feel that we should not be cramped looking for a definition that is exactly right, while you know that reality can be so versatile and multifaceted that you never really get it. I think there is a little more room for this in this bill than if it were a coercive measure. I would simply say: I am not satisfied with this. Now it does not directly include a duty vis-à-vis citizens. That gives us a little more room for manoeuvre. Once we have that room for manoeuvre, but at the same time we must be careful not to give it such a meaning that you say: I think every family of more than three children is vulnerable, because do you have enough time for those children? Mrs Agema and Mrs Van den Berg also gave examples. It's got to be sufficiently defined what you're gonna get under that vulnerability. I think that is what we are debating today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u31	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u32	And the remaining 1 minute and 44 seconds I had reserved for the response to interruptions, so that's exactly right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u33	Very good. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Aukje de Vries from the VVD group. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u34	I'll start with the disappointment: I'm not going to finish the ten minutes, Mr President. That's gonna be punishment, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u35	Then you have to sing a song to fill the time or tell jokes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u36	I won't do that to the people at home, Mr. Chairman. Maybe you have a nicer voice for songs. Mr. Chairman. It is important that all children can get a good start. That shouldn't depend on where you come into the world. For a good development of the child is crucial that the child makes a good start in those first thousand days. A number of colleagues have already spoken about it. During pregnancy, conditions that have a negative impact on the unborn child may occur. Think of mental problems or addiction problems. It is important for a good start to the child to be recognised at an early stage so that appropriate support can be provided. But why are the existing local structures and safety nets not enough to pick up these signals? Many municipalities already do a lot of work on this, for example through the programs Kansrijke Start. Can the Secretary of State explain why it is necessary to lay this down by law? What are the experiences with these Probable Start action programmes and how has this been incorporated into the present legislative proposal? How are these action programmes and processes compared to how it is regulated by this law? Can anything be said about the effectiveness of all these action programmes? How did they help? Mr. Chairman. The definition of "vulnerable situations" is based on the Rotterdam definition of the concept. I have to say, it's kind of broad. I haven't been able to discern a real definition. Like my colleagues from the CDA and the PVV, I am concerned whether it is not too spacious and whether it could not be too patronising on a number of points. The concept leaves a lot of room for interpretation and so there can also be a lot of differences between municipalities. How much room do municipalities have to fill in and possibly limit it? The VVD would like to know if there is also an active sharing of knowledge between municipalities about the implementation practice, so that we can learn from each other. The question is also where my colleague Mr Westerveld, in my opinion, has already spoken about this mess. Because who actually signals what a fragile situation is? How is there going to be cooperation here? The advice now focuses on a follow-up to Youth Health, but it can also sometimes be that another aid worker is more in place? I'm also a little afraid of this mess and that it's not gonna really help. Mr. Chairman. The bill has been amended. It is now advised to contact the jgz organisation. I think that is a good step and a good improvement on the basis of the opinion for the Personal Data Authority. But of course it also determines a large part of what the effectiveness of the approach will be. Because the question is whether this group, and this group, will actually do that and follow that advice. Can this issue of effectiveness also be explicitly taken into account in future evaluation, and can the Secretary of State also regularly report how often this advice will actually be followed up? So it is about the follow-up to support, but also about whether the result has been achieved. A number of colleagues also mentioned the effectiveness, but also the effectiveness and the result that support can provide. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about the evaluation. I think it would be important for us to take this very strongly in any case. There is no formal assessment provision in the law. We believe that it is important, and that we should not wait too long to see whether we are actually achieving the effects, but also to see whether the amount that the municipalities are now receiving is sufficient to actually carry out that task. I have tabled an amendment to that effect and I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. It is also envisaged that this legislative amendment will enter into force as from 1 January 2022. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that there will be no gaps between the approach that some municipalities already have and what should be done under this law when it comes to a promising start? How was that secured, and are all the municipalities also ready for this task in time? I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Now I can sing the rest of the time, but I won't do that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u37	Okay, here's the deal. Thank you. That was the term of the Chamber. After the suspension, we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u38	Let's move on. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u39	Mr. Chairman. I do not think I have given up any speaking time. That could help us to be ready at the agreed time. I have in my answer a general introduction and then four blocks. After a brief introduction, I would first like to comment on a block general, the need, the reason for the legislative proposal: is there indeed a need to settle this? The second block is the vulnerability that has been called for. The third block is its scope. It's about volunteering. And the fourth block is other/varia. Mr. Chairman. All children deserve a good start. All Members of this House will support that. Fortunately, that is the case with many children. Unfortunately, there are also children who are not born into a stable family or who are less fortunate. This deserves attention, because a less good start means that children can often have all kinds of problems at a later age. Based on the idea that every child deserves an optimal chance for a good future, the Probable Start programme was launched in 2018 by colleague Hugo de Jonge, the VWS Minister. At local and regional level, Kansrijke Start is committed to strengthening the chain around the first thousand days of children in order to make it easier and better for families in a vulnerable situation. Bringing forward youth health care with this bill will strengthen the chain approach. This means better cooperation between the medical domain, the social domain and the public health domain. I would like to highlight the following here, because that was very dominant in the contribution of the Chamber. This bill imposes a duty on municipalities to provide youth health care even during the period of pregnancy. It is a duty for municipalities and therefore not a duty for families. I want to put a big line on that and I will come back to that, of course. This improved cooperation will enable targeted assistance and support from youth health care during pregnancy to be provided and a relationship of trust with the family. Parents are accompanied by prenatal home visits by youth health care to the upcoming parenthood and to a good start for their child. At the moment, the prenatal home visit is offered in a large number of municipalities, but not yet in every municipality. With this law, we therefore require every municipality to offer it if there is demand for it, if there is an opinion that it is necessary as part of the chain approach around the first thousand days. This also anchors funding for municipalities. That's part of this law. Funding has also been arranged to enable municipalities to do so. The law focuses on offering the possibility by municipalities and it is clearly not an obligation for parents; I cannot say it often enough. With this legislative amendment, including its funding, an important part of that wider Prosperous Start programme will be structurally secured. We will work out further safeguards in the coming period, together with the parties involved. Mrs Van den Berg and others have asked questions about Kansrijke Start after 2021 and beyond. I'll get back to you on that. When is there a prenatal home visit by youth health care? There may be circumstances in a family that cause a pregnant person to experience a lot of stress. Think of mental problems, money problems and housing problems, for example. Spokesmen themselves have also mentioned examples. Stress during pregnancy may affect their health and development at a later age. In order to reduce or even prevent these consequences in later life, it is important to have risky conditions in mind in a timely manner. The challenge here is to make a good assessment of both medical and psychological-social risk factors. We are talking, for example, about financial problems, psychological problems and housing problems. In addition, it says that protective factors are also taken into account. I believe that this has hardly been mentioned by the spokesmen, but it is also looked at: are there any protective factors? In other words, are there family conditions, for example a very good social network, so that problems that are identified are easily addressed within that network? The motivation of parents is also an important protective factor. Especially the birth care professionals, such as obstetricians, play a key role. Here the pregnant person often comes first and can be shown that help and support is needed. In that case, the birth care professional advises a prenatal home visit by youth health care. If the pregnant woman and hopefully her husband or partner, if this is the case, use it, then the youth nurse together with the pregnant and her family will identify the help and support needed to use this help afterwards. This was the introduction, Mr President. I come now to my first block: necessity and reason. Mr Van der Staaij rightly asked the very basic question: what is needed and what limits are there for preventive public action? In fact, Mrs Agema has also put this question in so many words: where should the government do what? In my view, we agree that the government has a responsibility to make provision for help and support to families. This bill regulates that a municipality should offer a prenatal home visit by the jgz for the listeners: jgz is youth health care, but that goes more quickly to pregnant people in a vulnerable position with their families. The law is not aimed at the pregnant woman herself and does not contain any obligation to accept this offer. Maybe I'm saying that to the point, but I don't want this bill to get stuck after it's dealt with. Mr Van der Staaij makes the point when he says in beautiful Dutch: it takes a whole society to raise a child. It takes a village to raise a child, say the English. That's the starting position. In this sense, the conclusion of a conversation of a youth nurse with a family can also be: we think that your environment is capable of helping you through any problems that may have been identified; we are not going to put all kinds of serious care on that. Mrs. Agema asked whether the question of the municipalities that do not yet have it has been examined. It rightly notes, as it says in the documents, that a substantial part of the municipalities are already doing prenatal research and that some of the municipalities are not doing it, and asks why. I'd like to take the Chamber for a moment in how this came about. In 2018, the Prosperous Start programme was launched with three pillars. In the second pillar there is assistance during pregnancy. This bill has been announced. At that time 150 municipalities were used as a kind of guide municipalities. They have raised their finger and said: we want to participate in this. They already equaled feeling much for this route. When that proved to be a success quite quickly, it was said that we were going to open it up and make funds available for it. At that time it was also extended, because by now out of 300 or 340 municipalities or so I don't know the number, chairman; I should have looked that up for a moment and took 275 part in the program Kansrijke Start. This does not automatically mean that they also participate in the prenatal home visit, but a substantial part does. Of the municipalities that have not yet met, we have not yet figured out why they have not been addressed. There are also very small municipalities where there is hardly a problem, for example in the atmosphere of difficult neighbourhoods. The ambition is to attract as many municipalities as possible, but also here Corona has been an obstacle. It's as simple as that. So we do not yet have an exact picture of why certain municipalities have not yet been addressed. Corona plays a role in this. It is often the smaller municipalities. The large municipalities with vulnerable neighbourhoods are certainly all hooked up. Several MPs, including Ms Van den Berg and others, asked about the need for this law and about the situation with Kansrijke Start after 2022. I think I heard Mrs van den Berg say that I was going to throw away existing shoes and start something new from 2022. That's not my experience or my intention. This bill is part of the wide-ranging Program of Prosperous Start. It is in the second pillar and has also been announced. It was discussed with the Chamber earlier when it was still in the docks. It is indeed the intention that this will be offered from 2022 onwards, at least the starting point is that each municipality will then make this offer. But we also want to keep the broad programme of Prosperous Start in the air. The beauty of this bill is that the structural funds are already linked to it in the Council of Ministers. It is then 5.3 million for municipalities to settle that. That's secured. The whole program costs more. I would like to say to Mrs Van den Berg that I am committed to the Council of Ministers in order to be able to continue with what we started with next year. That conversation's going on right now. I cannot anticipate that further, but it is my intention to do so. It is my intention to allow Kansrijke Start to go through as a broad programme and to free up the financial resources for it. The beauty of this bill is that 5.3 million has already been secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u40	Let's check it out. I understood from the documents that this 5.3 million would be allocated to the Community fund for four years. Four years isn't for me indefinitely. So there's one of my concerns there. We now have a nice program with Kansrijke Start. The Secretary of State is working on this, but as it now seems, at the end of the year the money for this is gone. If that were to happen, then we will start the prenatal home visit programme in January and the money will be back up after four years. That's what I meant when I said, you just have to hold on to one thing and go through with it. As Mrs Agema pointed out, 65% of the municipalities participating in Kansrijke Start are already making prenatal home visits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u41	The latter is indeed so. Let's hope they continue. The funding linked to this bill has a scope of four years. That may soon become structural, but Mrs Van den Berg has a point when she says that it is not taken as the letter. I think there are two things to that. I'm really aspiring to continue Kansrijke Start as a program. As far as I'm concerned, that's the legacy for another cabinet. At least this Chamber is involved in the question of what we are going to do about this. I would also like to say something about the financing of the measure taken in this legislative proposal, the legal guarantee of that prenatal home visit. It could also be the case that after three or four years we say that funding does not have to include this amount; that can also be less. Or maybe it should be more if more help is offered along that route. I'd say consider that at that time. The funding has been secured for at least four years. That's quite a long scope for an intervention like this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema mentioned the need for the law and the way in which municipalities are involved. In this context, she asked: is not the autonomy of municipalities excluded? The municipalities are involved. The VNG is fully hooked. I do understand the question, because it sounds like an obligation; in fact, it is an obligation. Municipalities must also offer youth health care during pregnancy, if there is a demand for it. But there's the limit right there. As far as I am concerned, it should not be so, as far as I am concerned, because I think that a large majority in the Chamber thinks that too, and perhaps it is even Chamberwide, that birth care in one municipality is of the opinion that youth health care should actually be involved and that there is such an offer, whereas there is no such offer in a neighbouring municipality, because that municipality says: I have no duty; I do not need it. There is that duty. It may well be that youth health care in a number of municipalities should not or hardly be used during pregnancy, but we believe that there should be a level playing field for all families. All families should be entitled to this, precisely because we see the added value of using the jgz during pregnancy too, when the professionals see the need to do so. Mr. Chairman. I have already referred to Mr Van der Staaij's remark that the family as a whole should be involved. No, let me be more explicit about that. I just indicated that the offer is primarily discussed with the pregnant woman. But at least there's a child on the way, there's also a partner in the game. It'd be worth a sweet thing to me if it got involved, even more so, the whole family. As far as I am concerned, that is the starting point. In my opinion, it is also increasingly the culture of youth health care and birth care that we embrace wholeheartedly that the whole family is involved and that not every family member is viewed as an island, as a separate individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u42	The core of all decentralisations was whether it was the Youth Act, the Wmo or the Wmo 2015, the municipalities themselves could do it all. As a result, many differences have arisen in those who receive and do not receive domestic help, and on the basis of which, in the tools and in which municipality, more is done to highly specialised mental health care for children and which municipality is less. The differences between municipalities are at the heart of all these decentralisations. So I find it strange that the government suddenly says: now it must be the same for everyone. That's not at the heart of all the other laws, so why do we have to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u43	I understand that question, of course. In the meantime, things have also been returned from the municipality to the Empire or have been kept with the Empire since the beginning. Full specialist assistance for young people will continue to be organized at a national level. We are now going to discuss the agenda with municipalities in order to organise other types of youth assistance more at an upper regional or even national level. That agenda's just there. That is also an opinion of the Committee of Wise Men. The cabinet has taken over, and so has the VNG, by the way. So we'll have that conversation wider. Youth health care itself has not changed in 2015, which had previously been invested in municipalities as a duty. This is simply stated in the Public Health Act: municipalities, you will offer youth health care. What is happening now is that we say: the age for which you do so must be brought forward something. Is that a violation of local autonomy? Literally, yes. Is that a bad idea? No, of course not, because I believe there is broad support for this to have added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u44	I don't think that support is very strong. It is, of course, very nice that years ago a motion from me was adopted to reorganise this highly-specialist mental health care at a state level, because many municipalities simply left that behind. But we all had to understand that all these municipalities could decide for themselves with the Youth Act, the Wmo and the Wmo 2015. The core is that the city council will decide what will happen in the municipality and that there will all be differences between municipalities, even in which you may or may not get a wheelchair and for what amount, and you name the horns and bells that will not touch it. Those differences were therefore correctly introduced in 2008 and 2015. But the point here is that a uniformity is enforced on a very small subject such as the provision of a home visit. I think the justification for this is... I just can't get to that. I just don't understand why that has to be national, generic and the same for everyone. I'm sorry to interrupt for so long, Mr. Chairman, but let's be specific. There can be a Christian village in a sparsely populated area where all families are actually in full view and where the city council says: we don't need that at all. There can also be a large city that has no sight at all of its citizens, where there is a lot of immigration from countries with really different standards and values than we have. I went to work with Ab Klink myself once at maternity care in Rotterdam, and I was so shocked there! Then you come to a very small apartment, and there live eight children. There are beds everywhere in the living room, or there are sleeping places throughout the house. You're scared of an accident. It's just a whole different culture. Well, then I can understand why a big city like you wouldn't mind offering that. But there are also villages and cities where the city council can simply say: we do not need that very much. So why all of a sudden, at this point, is this uniformity and not all the other laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u45	Mrs Agema raises a very broad subject. Actually, the fundamental question is: what are you going to do with municipalities and what are you going to do centrally? That is a logical question within the framework of this law, because here we are bringing something to the central government. That's what we enforce for every city. At the same time, Mrs Agema makes it small by referring to that Christian village. Let's zoom in on that. In my opinion, this Christian village, which has every family in sight and also provides support, has nothing to fear from this bill or from this intervention. A small municipality that has a good image of its inhabitants and a very strong social network will probably never have to resort to it. But I do not want to exclude the fact that in the same village it is said that everything is under control, but that there is also a very worrying situation in a family. I mean, I'm not from the school that says that there is no domestic violence in a small Christian village; Mrs Agema agrees. If this is indicated by the midwife, by birth care, it would be desirable for youth health care to be applied at an earlier stage. That is the underlying idea of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u46	This bill isn't meant to detect domestic violence, is it? I haven't seen or read that at all. Homeless or addicts could be a risk group. Based on that risk group, you could offer a house visit, but the house visit itself is not meant to trace that at all. Everywhere in the Netherlands you have parents who are not so close to the safety of their children, but that was not the route the Secretary of State had chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u47	I didn't mean to say that a youth health worker is tracking that. Maybe domestic violence isn't a useful example either. Let's talk about financial problems in a family. If this problem is identified by the midwife and if he asks whether the family is okay with a youth health worker coming by because he looks more broadly than the midwife, who looks at the medical domain because it is not an obligation; if it is a question for a family, then that offer is made. That municipality guarantees that that offer can also be filled in. The family can say: we don't need that. Then it doesn't happen; we'll talk about that later. But it would be a dimmer if that municipality couldn't even make that offer. That is the underlying idea of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u48	That's certainly not true. This is a representation of things that are not right at all. In 2015, when I was pregnant, I just got a letter from the youth health service: we'll be there at that time. When I myself called youth health to say that I didn't think it was necessary at all, I got someone on the phone who said it was mandatory. It was because of my assertiveness that I said: that is not mandatory at all. So it doesn't go at all as the Secretary of State says here, as if the midwife were asking if it's okay. It's not like that at all. Those letters are just sent automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u49	In any case, the situation that Mrs Agema is setting out here is far before this bill was brought before the Chamber at all, and I am surprised at that practice. For one: this can never be imposed as a duty at all. Two: the municipality that offers it also had no obligation to offer it. And that it's being pushed down the throat like some kind of duty, I think it's totally weird. So I think it's a very special story, which certainly has nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u50	Mrs. Agema, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u51	This bill is about exactly the kind of house call those letters were about. That's what this bill is about, isn't it, about the purpose of the house visit behind the front door by juvenile health care at pregnant people's homes? Yeah, that's what the letter was about: they wanted to schedule a house visit and they had already chewed up the date of when it would be. I had to work. So it couldn't be done at all. Then I just wanted to unsubscribe and I got all resistance on the phone. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u52	I am as surprised as Mrs Agema is about that. I think it's an absurd story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u53	Then it is a good thing that Mrs van den Berg's amendment is there, by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u54	Yes, Mr Van der Staaij is the first author, but Mrs Van den Berg is underneath it and I think Mrs Agema will be too. But we agree on that, too. We don't have to argue about things we agree on. Of course, you shouldn't force people to shove it down their throats; I'll just say it flat. We're all in agreement on that. So let's not pretend we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u55	Mr President, you said to Mrs Agema: last time. But I would like to continue on that point, because the Secretary of State said this is necessary. Mrs Agema rightly pointed out that if a municipality has concerns, she can do so now on the basis of the Youth Act and get in touch with that family and that the municipality does not need this law to do so. So I would like to have an extra reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u56	Maybe we'll get the next block right now, because then we'll be done with it faster. Nor is it the case that this legislative proposal is intended to destroy this whole practical approach of the municipality. It is, of course, nice when a municipality has a good picture of the situation in families and already offers help on the basis of the Youth Act, without needing to find out a front door. It's wonderful if you can, and it's fantastic if that happens with everyone's consent. With this bill, it is a very small bill, no more and no less, the offer of youth health care, which municipalities are already obliged to offer for young people from 0 to 18 years, is extended to the period of pregnancy, the period of 9 months. That will be a duty for congregations. That can have added value. That is what I see in the explanatory memorandum and in the note on the report. The written documents say: it can have added value, for example in getting to know each other or in detecting problems much earlier. Sometimes that can be done by another route. It can even be done through the midwife. If the midwife sees something that is not good and knows the address in the municipality: arrange it! You don't necessarily have to bring in someone from the jgz. The thrust of this bill is simply that we do not want a family to be deprived of help. The aid is based on a voluntary offer, but each municipality must be able to offer. We do not want families to be deprived of it unnecessarily, in order to avoid problems later. It's no more and no less. Let's not make caricatures out of it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u57	In itself, the Secretary of State states here that we are broadening the period of application of youth health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u59	At the same time, the Secretary of State prescribes that it should take the form of a prenatal home visit. The question is whether this is necessary if you say in general that municipalities can implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u60	But I'm not denying that either. I was just trying to say that in response to Mrs van den Berg's question. If there is a route, for example via an outreach youth team or if a pregnant mother tells her story somewhere else, not being the jgz, and help can be used, that's fine, fantastic. The thrust of this bill is that if there is a gap in the offer, it is good that the municipality can offer the jgz anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u61	I think Mrs De Vries is right to ask whether this bill now means extending the law, not from 0 to 18 years, but from -9 months to 18 years. But even so, it is not necessary to include the need for a prenatal home visit. You can also just say that we extend the law from -9 months to 18 years, and that we leave it up to the municipalities to give it in the context of a Probable Start itself. That's another way to come up with the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u62	I do not know where that would materially differ from what we intend to do with this bill. As a cabinet, we have the idea that, as a result of this bill, the midwife will say in a number of cases: 'There is something really going on here, but this is beyond my head. This isn't my core business, so I need a youth healthcare specialist to look into that. I make an offer to the family that can be refused, but that offer stands." I do not know where that differs from the version that Mrs van den Berg is now presenting. In fact, even in the local setting what Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs De Vries describe can happen, namely that an offer is made without the jgz being in sight at all. That's not law enforcement either. However, we want municipalities to be able to offer help if the opinion of other professionals involved, such as birth care or the general practitioner, is to be given a broader view. They have been in consultation with the mother: would you like to take advantage of the offer? The mother can say: no need for, dude. Then it won't happen. But when the family says "please," what's wrong with that? Then the portee of this bill is that the municipality should also be able to offer it. He should not say to the GGD or the CJG: you get money for that; we do not. Mr. Chairman. Several members, including Mrs Paulusma and Mrs De Vries, referred to Article 3.1 of the Compliance Act when it was about the necessity of the law and about measuring the results when you have introduced a law. The question behind that was: how can you indicate that it is successful? I think it's a difficult question. With this kind of specific questions about care, it is difficult to picture how you measure success. This also applies to prevention, or rather to prevention. Research shows that early use of aid is more effective than the use of aid at a later age, in case of possible damage. As a result of this bill, which offers a wide range of jgz, more children are expected to be helped in good time. That is better for the families in the Netherlands, for which we are doing it. Families benefit from this. And if we know how many families then use this, we can also make an assessment of its effectiveness. But no more and no less. I would like to add that it is then very difficult, and in my view completely impossible, to identify the causal link between an earlier commitment of youth health care and the well-being of a family. I don't think that's possible. You can agree goals and say for example: we want this to lead to a percentage of fewer aid questions at a certain age. That objective could be linked to it, if you have some experience with it, but also then the causal relationship is very difficult to picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u63	Mrs Westerveld at this point still?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u64	Yes, because whatever makes it difficult, of course, is that this bill, and at least the finances involved, are based on a two-hour conversation. Suppose, in a family there is a psychological problem called "the Secretary of State himself in his example " and such a family accepts the offer, and then talks with the GGD or another organization. Then, of course, after a two-hour conversation, you weren't helped any further. And that, of course, makes it very complicated. So I'd like to ask the Secretary of State what a family like that has to do with it when there's no follow-up care, if that's not in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u65	I think, with your permission, that this does not necessarily have a hundred percent to do with Article 3.1.Compatibility law, but with the question: if you invest in it and you really want to have an effect, and there it will get to each other again, then there must indeed be a follow-up, if that is deemed necessary. And how is that funded? And the last thing, when you talk about local autonomy: if the jgz professional comes to a family and they have a good two-hour conversation there, and they come to the conclusion that it is desirable to use debt relief or other forms of aid, then of course it must also be available. And that really is a municipal responsibility, which is also largely in the social domain. It can also go to the medical domain, and then a follow-up should be possible. But that will happen, and that does not require a separate funding... That question can arise at any time, and then either the municipality, when it comes to funding in the social domain, is responsible financially; and when it comes to medical care, the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u66	Yes, I understand this answer, but of course something may go wrong, because a family where problems are often very often had to do its story in different places, and sometimes also gets completely mad about the number of aid workers that arrives at them, from all those times they have to do their story again. And then there's another conversation of a few hours. I think it can do harm, in the sense that it is of course very unpleasant for such a family to tell your story once again, to someone else who comes to see with all good intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u67	Yes, and that is why I think that voluntaryness is so important, which is also the subject of an amendment, to underline this. It's a voluntary offer. So there's this guy from Jgz who says, "Family, the door's open; we're gonna start that conversation." I do not know whether it is true in the situations that Mrs Westerveld is talking about that is yet another conversation, because you are talking about a follow-up to birth care. So a family is pregnant, hopefully happy expectation, of a baby. The birth care is involved, and it signals: it is useful to have a conversation to see if the child will literally come into a warm nest. And when that family says "we like to have that conversation," hopefully that's only the second conversation about it, and then really more in depth, for two hours. In my opinion, care-free and preventive measures must be taken to ensure that people have to tell the same story ten times and are completely shattered with the offer. But I think the assumption is justified, especially for this type of conversation, that that is the first in-depth conversation the family has.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u68	I didn't ask the question about effectiveness for nothing, given the last few weeks, with the whole discussion about VWS and spending. But I was also a little surprised by the reaction you gave afterwards, in which you actually said that the effect of prevention is very difficult to describe. And so I think that's the real problem, the big problem that doesn't make us take any bigger steps in this. And I could very well imagine that those professionals I'm going to talk about again might not necessarily need two hours for a conversation, because they work together so well and are able to implement the effect of this measure very well. So I would like to suggest to you: include professionals in the evaluation, including cost-effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u69	Yeah, but if that's the underlying question, the suggestion and a free advice, I'd like to take it up. I think that is a very good suggestion, because not only do you talk about quantitative data in monitoring or evaluation, but also about quality: satisfaction, how is the added value, and do you manage within time? I'd be happy to take that advice. The commitment is that I will involve this in the evaluation. As far as the use of resources in prevention is concerned, I am, of course, responsible for more prevention issues. For example, with regard to the whole package on smoking, we can see that there is a substantial decrease; however, one cannot say that a half-percent reduction is due to the fact that a pack of cigarettes has become a euro more expensive or to the fact that you are no longer allowed to smoke in the schoolyard. It is difficult to get a picture of this, and so is it. That's what I was gonna say. Mrs van den Berg's response suggests that a substantial part of the money goes to red tape. She was right to say that funding was based on a two-and-a-half-hour conversation. This is then also in line with the VNG. The UNG has also said: that is real. To see if this is sufficient, the legislative proposal will also be evaluated. I believe that Mrs De Vries has also tabled an amendment to bring forward this evaluation in order to speed up the process. I'm gonna find something positive about that later. So that's what we're looking at pretty quickly. I would like to stay away from the idea that the 5.3 million will largely go away to administrative burdens, because there is already a great deal in the municipal infrastructure around youth health care. There's not much news. The whole JGZ organisation has been around for years and it usually also works very well in municipalities. All praise. It's not a little player either, like someone said. I think the JGZ is very important in a child's life if it works well. So I want to stay away from the idea that the bulk of 5.3 million goes to the administration. If you start from two and a half hours of bet and from €180 to €190 times several tens of thousands of families, you're already getting close to that 5.3 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u70	On page 9 of the explanatory statement, it says: "The VNG indicates that converted about two hours is available for the preparation, alignment and administration of the prenatal home visit. This is, according to the VNG, completely inadequate." Maybe I'm just reading this all wrong, but then they say that coordination and administration costs have not been taken into account in the national budget. So I think they indicate that a substantial part of the time is spent on that entire administration. I agree with the Secretary of State that you do not need to set up new organizations. So why is this necessary? But this is the VNG's response to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u71	I believe that Mrs van den Berg and I are allies when we say that we do not need a euro too much for administrative burdens and red tape in the run-up or organisation. We have also had contact with the VNG in the run-up to this bill. And of course I also read what's on page 9, even more so, that's what my signature is underneath. At the same time, the municipalities say that they agree with the starting point of two and a half hours. I also want to talk to the municipalities about the costs involved, but I also dare to say that they are largely in the municipality's regular budget around the organisation of the JGZ. Mr President, I am already a long way off in my first block. I now turn to a specific point under the heading general. This has to do with how we work towards the entry into force of this bill. Mrs Paulusma has asked whether we are sufficiently prepared and whether it is not going too fast. She suggested that the law should come into force on 1 July. I can reassure her: it will be on January 1st next year. So there's an extra six months. We are fully involved in preparing it in such a way that it will succeed. A very important point is to describe together what you mean by vulnerable families. It is very important that you agree on a good deal of it, taking into account, by the way, the local interpretation of that concept. Mrs Paulusma further asked how we ensure that people are involved at local level and how we ensure that people are involved, that is, the mothers, the families. Achieving the target group, the alerting and the follow-up of the prenatal home visit will receive attention within the entire program Kansrijke Start. Many parties are involved in this. At present, handles are being developed for this purpose, including from two pathways: better reaching the target group and better identifying. I very much agree with Mrs Paulusma that you need to go after the people who are involved. All sections, including the present legislative proposal, are and will be involved in field parties. Those field parties include not only the parent councils, but also the Patient Federation, which represents the demand side, and the Opportunity Start mirror group, which consists of experience experts. In the hand-out for prenatal home visits, attention is paid to reaching the target group. This must be translated at local level. As far as national and local levels are concerned, that is the answer to Mrs Paulusma's question. It is another intention to make a leaflet for the target group in consultation with the Patient Federation. I think that we can do the same together with the target group. It has to read along: do we really understand this and is it something for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u72	Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State indicates that the definition of a vulnerable situation and vulnerable families as now included in the explanatory memorandum is not going to be the definition, but that the municipalities are still looking at what the definition is going to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u73	Indeed, it contains the definition of the municipality of Rotterdam, of which Mrs Aukje de Vries asked if that is a definition. Other MPs asked: can't you apply it nationwide? The fact is that we are talking about this with the municipalities. I think it is a good starting point that the people who have to do the work, the professionals, make the hand-out and say: on the basis of these criteria, we believe that there is a vulnerable family. The hand-out was planned earlier, on May 1st, but it is not ready. It will, as it now seems, be ready on 1 September. Then it really should be ready. Otherwise, we will have too little preparation after the implementation of the law. So the aid workers, the people who really do the work, are on the buttons to write the hand-out. I do not know whether there is a definition or whether there are very good criteria of what is termed "vulnerable." I would also like to assure the Chamber that when the hand-out is ready, the Chamber will be given to read on the basis of which criteria help will be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u74	Thank you, at least, for that commitment. Only, a lot of parties in the Lower House have indicated to you that they think the definition here and the risk factors mentioned here are quite broad. I would therefore be pleased if the Secretary of State would pass that on to the people working on the hand-out. For it cannot be the case that we, as legislators, point in a certain direction and then take a completely different direction and interpret it very widely, whereas that is not really the intention of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u75	I think we are in complete agreement that if there is a real need, if there is a very fragile situation, the offer is made and not if someone has a cold, to put it mildly. So we have the same intention. The hand-out will give us more clarity on the criteria on the basis of which "vulnerable" is defined. Mr. Chairman. Ms Paulusma asked if the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, the BES Islands, is ready. There are differences in how far one is from each island to each island. For example, prenatal home visits are already being made on Saba. That's the smallest island. Talks with the islands have shown that all three have at present sufficient instruments to shape the prenatal home visit. This is happening within the infrastructure set up on the islands. Mrs Westerveld asked about the working method in the run-up to its entry into force. How is concrete work done? Mrs Westerveld also asked which healthcare professional is the coordinating professional and how privacy is regulated. Whoever is coordinating is not regulated by this law. The law is very concise. So we leave that to the local field. But the idea is that there is largely birth care: coordination in the assessment of whether an aid question should be formulated and discussed with the family. That could also be the GP. She can also say: I have a mother here at consultation hours, and I think there is a reason. This applies only if the general practitioner is not also a midwife, but I understood that in the Netherlands there are only seven persons and general practitioner and midwife. Mrs Westerveld also asked: there are many instances... Well, I think she just did that interruption, so I don't have to do it now. I've gone into the hustle and bustle around a family, just to put it this way. The advantage of being interrupted is that you can just skip the answers you have on your paper, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u76	It's okay. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. In seven minutes, the next debate on dog taxes is due to begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u77	I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u78	That may not be one-two-three possible, but if it could be a little bit more concise here and there, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u79	I'm going to try to do it succinctly, Mr. Chairman. I'll do my best. Mrs De Vries has asked whether I can guarantee that there will be no gaps in the approach that some municipalities already have in relation to Kansrijke Start and the implementation of the bill. I can give a very brief answer to that: I am really going to do my utmost to ensure that those holes do not arise. That can never be the intention. We're on our way with Kansrijke Start. This is a headline on that, an addition. This shouldn't make a cut. I think I handled the first block of this. Then I can move on to the theme of vulnerability. What do we mean by vulnerability? I have already said a few things about this. I'm gonna go see if I can add anything to that. All in all, vulnerability is, of course, a very broad term. I can only agree with Mrs Agema when she says: 'vulnerable' you can fill in so broad that half of the Netherlands will comply with it. The starting point of the law is that professionals complete it on the basis of that manual that is being worked on. It's not like anyone with too much stress is in a vulnerable situation. I therefore believe that a great many MPs and directors would be eligible. Therefore, it is important that the professional looks at the overall picture of the individual. The overall picture should be assessed. The discussion must also be conducted on the basis of good principles. Not everything needs to be dragged back so that unnecessary numbers of people are going to appear behind the front door who are really not needed there at the time. I would like to stress that we are asking the professional whether he is looking not only at risk factors, which are also in the pieces, but also at protective factors. So if a family has a lot of resilience and a good social network and is very motivated to solve things themselves, then that has to take into account whether a conversation with the jgz is needed. Mr President, I can add a great deal, but I wanted to leave the heading 'vulnerability'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u80	So this was your second block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u82	I've asked a whole bunch of questions about that. I have asked a great many questions on all points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u83	I wrote them all down, too, but I indicated that the definition of "vulnerability" lies primarily with the professionals. The professionals are working on a hand delivery that will appear in September. I just turned that in. I also offered in an interruption with Mrs De Vries that I would like to send that hand-off to the Chamber. Maybe that's even gonna be a reason to talk to each other about that. As far as I am concerned, this hand-out is going to answer the questions that Mrs Agema is asking here. She really asks me if I have to deal with all these situations, because this hand-out is not yet ready. It's still to be filled in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u84	I just asked questions about the law before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u85	The law is one article, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u86	Then take the explanatory statement. It's part of the law. Deliberations, that's what we do here. Risk factors are simply mentioned, such as financial problems. When is that gonna happen? If someone's short three tens by the end of the month, does he have any financial problems? I've been asking about lifestyle. There's a lot of overweight young girls. Are they going to get the professional opinion that it's in the law? This hand-out will soon be based on what the Secretary of State has put in the law and the debate that goes with it. I didn't make it up. I have questioned what the Secretary of State has given us. That's a hell of a lot. Take, for example, those education skills, those medical issues, whether you have a disease, or not, if you're in a wheelchair and I don't know what. I'm just asking if the State Secretary is willing to just take that out, because it's going to be the basis for a hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u87	I certainly am not, precisely because it still needs to be completed. Take the example that Mrs Agema mentions, namely whether you get the jgz over the floor to have a broad conversation when you're in red for a couple of tens. I think asking the question is answering it. Someone who hits that, of course, will say, "Guest, act normal. I'm 50 bucks in red. You're not gonna send a jgz on my roof just for that?" I think that's a very strange representation of things. So such a person can simply refuse. In all cases, someone who gets that offer can say, "What are you coming with? I don't need that, so get rid of it." It's voluntary. That's my next cup, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u88	But it says here: physical and also medical problems. That's someone with a disability or someone with a disease. That's just a risk factor that's mentioned here. But as a petitioner, I expect something to be said about this in that speech. I have already indicated to you that I find it appalling that in 2021 you will be stigmatized with a restriction or a disease among the members. That doesn't mean you don't have the baby stuff in order when you're pregnant. It is stigmatizing and it is simply in the explanatory statement that you sent to the Chamber, when I expect you to give it to me later. I'd like you to promise that that will come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u89	No. I have just said that and I can say it three times, but of course that does not come out. Let me give an answer to Mrs Agema and if others want to hear it, tell the others. Let me say that we are based on customization and that the aid worker, which is often the birth care professional, makes an assessment is a serious situation here? Mrs Agema explains it as stigmatisation. I think that Mrs Agema, on the basis of tailor-made work, does not do enough to help her when she says that someone has a disease, let me put an entire army into aid for a moment. That paramedic will start the conversation with that family, with that mother, or with that father if he also has a problem. It's about that conversation, just in the spirit of: can we help you? If someone has a disease that can hinder the upbringing of a child, is it fantastic that we have arranged it in the Netherlands so that such a family can be helped? That's an offer for help, and that family can refuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u90	They are the risk factors as appointed by the Secretary of State himself: nutrition and movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u91	Yeah, so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u92	Okay, so someone overweight than apparently; a younger, pregnant woman overweight. That's a risk factor: movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u93	It says nourishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u94	Are people still allowed to decide whether or not to exercise in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u95	Yeah, but if what I heard happened when I was alderman with families, that at breakfast the frying pan went on, then it makes sense for me to have the conversation about it. And even then, there won't be a ban on that frying pan, but then you're gonna have that conversation with each other, right? The conversation of: is it good that you fry three times a day in your family instead of a healthy breakfast as a start? I think it makes perfect sense for you to engage in that conversation. Let's not make caricatures like this: and then an entire army of aid workers is forced to be dismissed. Absolutely not. Mr. Chairman. I went to the cup of volunteering. Mrs van den Berg and others, Mr Van der Staaij has tabled an amendment to it, saying: let the starting point be voluntary, that is not explicitly stated in the law. I think that's what all the spokesmen have underlined. It is not now explicitly stated in the law that it is voluntary. This should be dealt with through an amendment. I get that wish. At the same time, regular youth health care is now also voluntary. There the range is huge; fantastic work is done there. That's a voluntary choice. People can go there. They can also say, if they get an invitation, I'm not coming. In that sense, also in view of what is quite explicitly stated in the explanatory memorandum... In the past, we were allowed to "unneeded" the appreciation of an amendment. That qualification hasn't been valid for a few years, but I would have loved it. It is quite clear that that is the intention. Since that qualification no longer exists and I fully agree with the intention of the proposers, I give the amendment judgment Chamber. I think that is the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u96	Now the piece No. 11 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u97	Okay, no. 11. I would like to make it quite clear that, as far as I am concerned, it is clear from the legal history and all the texts surrounding it that it is a voluntary choice. So I think he's a little redundant, but I'm not going to fight about it. I think we've had this cup with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u98	There is a question from the author of the amendment, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u99	Thank you for the Secretary of State's response. He says it's unnecessary. It wasn't the wish to just get a word in the law. I understand that it is in the explanatory statement, but precisely in view of the nature of a house visit, the fact that it is behind the front door is important for us to explicitly regulate it in the law itself. That is the background or why of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u100	I wholeheartedly endorse that thought. I don't expect every jgz man to memorize the law, but I suppose they know it's a voluntary offer. Again, the appreciation is: Judgment Chamber. I'm getting to the last block, other than that. Firstly, Mrs Westerveld's question. She said that a percentage of 16.5 is assumed and that is then referred to as 14%. What is it now? At the moment we are in the middle: 15.6% on the basis of the same studies to which reference is made. The percentage is fluctuating. The percentages for early birth and for low birth weight are the international criteria, the international sizes for a good start of children. That figure differs from one country to another. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Aukje de Vries has tabled an amendment on the evaluation. She also asked a question about this: shouldn't it be faster? I can be very simple about that. It's fine if we get a picture of the flag before, both quantitatively and qualitatively. I'd like to talk to the VNG about that. The appreciation of this amendment is: Court of Justice. I realize that I have closed the chapter on vulnerability without going into an announced amendment by Mrs van den Berg, but I do not think I have seen it yet. The author will know most about it himself, but I cannot give an appreciation of it now because I have not yet seen it. But that could be me. Is it there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u101	It has been distributed. It is the amendment in part No. 12, which has just been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u102	It proposes to insert in Article 1 (a) part (i) in so far as this is justified by the use of an appropriate signalling instrument. I have not seen the explanatory statement now, but the intention is, of course, to prevent people from being provided with aid unnecessarily. In view of Mrs van den Berg's input, her intention and the way she puts it here, I am giving the amendment to item No. 12 Judgment Room. I thought there were three amendments. Or are there others?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u103	As far as your comment is concerned, we are still missing the amendment to item No. 9. Oh, that's just over. Mrs. Pauluma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u104	I wanted to start with the petitioner in a moment, but given the reaction of the Secretary of State, the following. There are six signalling tools for prenatal care/care after birth and youth care. My neighborhood nurse's heart is crying, because it's a whole bunch of paper that clearly addresses the vulnerability and all the things you've mentioned before. If we talk very often in this house about administration and the bureaucratic burden on professionals, my plea would be: do not add a seventh to this. I'm curious about the reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u105	I think this is an invitation from Mrs Paulusma to merge them into a concise document that is a little insightful and that good nurses can work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u106	Yeah, and most of all, I'd involve the professionals. Ask them what they need to do their job well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u107	But that is what I think I indicated at this point. That hand-out is made by the professionals themselves. I'm definitely gonna share this signal with them. It's got to be easy to handle, and helpers need to be able to handle it. They don't have to read a phone book to know how to get to a family.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u108	I am still missing a clear appreciation of the amendment on item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u109	That's the evaluation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u111	Perhaps I have not linked the number to it, for which I apologise, but this amendment I give Chamber judgment. So for all three amendments, the judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u112	You're in a generous mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u113	It was such a simple law, Mr. Chairman, but he's getting more and more complicated. No, the law's probably only gonna get better this way. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions and then I'm done. The first is from Mrs Van den Berg. We're talking about the first thousand days, but shouldn't you be starting a program right up to elementary school age? I think that's a broader shared wish, but it's not the scope of Probable Start. The starting point at Kansrijke Start is real: from conception up to and including the first thousand days. That first start must be very good. If you want to broaden that, many people will be sympathetic, but we have not settled that now. I think it's really something for a new cabinet. I see Mrs van den Berg walking towards the interrupting microphone, but I think she has asked about the costs that such an extension would entail. We'd like to do that exercise. Then it becomes clear where it would lead in practice. We can't do that in a day; it really takes a moment. But I'm happy to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u114	I understand that the Secretary of State cannot say right away: we need so much million. But we would like to know what it would cost to extend it to primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u115	Yes. Mr President, I have a heartfelt announcement: I have already answered the last question I had. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u116	Very nice. So much for the first term. Oh, Mrs. Van den Berg, relax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u117	Thank you. We have also said that it is currently on the monitor that only 5% of people do not use maternity care. I referred to Mrs Bergkamp's motion and I referred to it last December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u118	Yes. I didn't bring it. This may have to do with the fact that maternity care is primarily Mr Van Ark's portfolio, but that is not a good excuse. I know she's in the middle of research to get a picture of this. And that investigation hasn't been completed yet. After the summer she can say more about this. She will then share with the Chamber what it takes to do what the Chamber wants in the sphere of maternity care. On behalf of Mr Van Ark, I say that after the summer she will come up with more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u119	Clear. Again, so much for the first term. I'm gonna see if there's a need for a second term. Mrs Paulusma, come forward. You can't do it from the benches. You need to come over here and make noises. It's nice, isn't it? It's a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u120	With such a chairman! Mr. Chairman. I have a very short question. I was just waving all those papers and I took them for a while. I'd like to hand them over to you for the impact in a moment. Can you promise me that in the hand-out and in everything around vulnerability we still have on paper, professionals will not load up with one more package of tick-off lists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u121	Look, those are second installments. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u122	It's such a worn-in walk that I suddenly stand on top of a messenger. Mr. Chairman. I think it is a very well-intentioned amendment to the law, but I do not think that the big pink elephant is being appointed and that the amendment to this bill does not contribute to that. I remember my grandfather telling me that they used to live with his elves on a barge, and that for the babies there really was a place to sleep everywhere. But in 2021 it happens in disadvantaged neighbourhoods as well: people who live in too small flats with too many children, pregnancies that are not even in the picture and children who are born between the dirty sheets and who are thrown into a corner. I still think that if you want to do something well-meaning, you should actually want to deal with it and tackle it. That is actually my closing argument, to have an eye for those places where things really go really bad, rather than generic by wanting to offer something to all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u123	Thank you. Then Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I agree with what Mrs Agema just said. We found that 5% of families have no maternity care. That percentage could even coincide with the groups mentioned by Mrs Agema, which are not at all in the picture. So I think at least...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u125	You're being interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u126	I didn't use that myself; I had very sweet parents who came to sleep for a week. So that too is a very strange criterion. But I think you should really name that big pink elephant in the room, and go into the disadvantaged areas, which include uses that we don't think are normal anymore at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u127	But at least I would like to say to Mrs Agema that I support that, that we should at least be able to track down that elephant, in addition to the fact that we are getting an idea of why that 5% does not use it, with perhaps very valid reasons. Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Secretary of State for all the answers, and I would like to inform Mrs Paulusma of the following. We can still amend amendments until the vote, so at the moment when Mrs Paulusma still has a good tip to clarify the definition adjustment and the amendment we have now made, I would like to take a look at that. Mr. Chairman. Once again, we remain concerned about the whole implementation. In this sense, I also fully support Mrs De Vries' amendment to carry out a mid-term review, to see if this will really bring about what we want to do with each other. After all, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas each child deserves the best possible start in his or her life and an optimal chance of a good future;]] [[whereas if you invest in a child, it also benefits the whole of society;]] [[Whereas the Prosperous Start action programme provides good support for vulnerable families in the first 1,000 days, but lacks the connection to primary education;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the costs of extending Kansrijke Start to primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35593-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u129	The next speaker is Mrs Westerveld. Oh, she has a question. I was thinking, which way are you going? But you want to go to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u130	I have a question about the amendment that has just been distributed. That amendment calls for the development and subsequent use of an appropriate signalling tool. That's what my question is about. Because now the midwife can recommend to contact the GGD during a conversation. Is it not the case that, if we adopt this amendment, it must first be administered and can therefore have an impact on privacy? That's what I'd like to know. So what does this amendment do in practice? And I can see where it's coming from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u131	Perhaps we should even use a very different word than the signalling instrument, with the remark made by Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Paulusma. What we've been looking for is this. That nurse now has that very broad definition she's looking at that family with. We say: no, you have to be able to limit that much better. Then the nurse has more clearly in her head: what am I going to look at and not what, and in what case do I offer such a conversation? Once again, if colleagues have any suggestions, we are prepared to take them with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u132	I would very much like to go to the end of this debate. Mrs. Pauluma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u133	I can imagine that it is going to be very difficult for the professional. I wonder if you can imagine that, too. Will anything we want to fill out and shape not hinder the practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u134	I think that in this case I fully agree with Mrs Agema that the current broad definition, as I said myself in my speech, will include 40% of families. We really do not think that is the intention. Raising children is primarily for parents and the loved ones around it and not for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u135	Fine. Then we will listen to Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should have said in my first term that I also spoke on behalf of the PvdA. I just forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u137	Interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u138	But on this point, my contribution was also on behalf of the PvdA Group. Mr. Chairman. I have another question that's been left open, and it's about privacy. I am still quite concerned about that, precisely because we already know that in some cases a family gets a label, gets help with all the good intentions of that. But sometimes that's gonna lead a life of its own. That sometimes sticks in files and ends up in different places. I would like to make sure that when a family is advised to talk to the Health Service, whether or not they do, it is administered somewhere and then it ends up somewhere. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how this bill can also guarantee the privacy of families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u139	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I thought we had a good debate on a number of points: voluntaryness, which we want to see even more explicitly laid down in the law and vulnerability, which we really want to see contained. From that point of view, I co-signed Mrs van den Berg's amendment, because the idea is that you want to indicate that without bureaucracy and with respect for a professional judgment there must be a well thought-out alert and that not everything can be put under the heading of 'vulnerability'. If technical improvements are still possible, my group, too, is obviously open to this. But that idea of restricting terminology, not bureaucracy and attaching to a professional opinion is also the motivation of my group to support this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u141	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mrs Aukje de Vries from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the issue of vulnerability. I co-signed the CDA amendment. I am happy to look at the wording, because it is certainly not the intention to create large check-off lists with a great deal of administrative burden, on the contrary, I think it is right, but to go towards limiting what is then all considered as risk factors. The list now contained in the explanatory memorandum is very broad. Mrs Agema has already mentioned a number of examples of this. This does not mean that everyone is either in a vulnerable situation or a vulnerable family. I would be happy to look at that wording. I listened to the Secretary of State. Thanks for the answer. I do get the feeling that financially... Let me put it this way: I have heard from the Secretary of State that there is only four years of money for this law. I find that special, because then there should be a horizon. Because when the money runs out, it can't be that you're gonna lay down the duty somewhere. I would like another comment on what that really is about. The Secretary of State just overreacted to my question about the guarantee that there would be no gaps, because he's going to run everything. I'm fine with it all. I do not think that there should be a gap, but I did not intend, with my statement, that the Secretary of State should now be doing everything and see it as a free pass to say somewhere in the cabinet formation in the negotiations on finance: the Chamber found this or that. It is not my intention that there should be new money for everything. Finally, I have one question that has not yet been answered, namely whether all the municipalities are ready on 1 January 2022. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u143	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. I would like to move on to the next debate. That's about the dog tax. Something completely different. Is the Secretary of State in a position to reply already? That's the case. I am happy to give him the floor and call him to a certain sumptuousness. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u144	I have a dog, so I have an interest in having that debate continue. Mr. Chairman. I think there were only a few questions. I would like to thank the Chamber for its first and second term and for the good discussion we have had on this subject. I owe another answer to Mrs Paulusma. She said: I have a few kilos of documents here; don't let that be anymore. I hear "less." Indeed, less, less, let it get less. I am happy to say that I am making every effort to this end. We are also dependent on the professionals who have to fill that out. They'll hear this on the left or right. I am going to urge them that this should be reduced, that that is the objective. I don't think that's asking over. So I'd like to admit that the package of paper is getting smaller. Mrs. Agema didn't have any questions, but she did name the pink elephant. In response to this, I would like to say that, for example, a programme like Now Not Pregnant within the story of Kansrijke Start could still play a role in this. Mrs Van den Berg has tabled a motion. For the sake of clarity, I can say... Judgement Chamber. That was a promise. In the past we had said: unnecessary because it was promised. But I'm judging Chamber, because I'm no longer allowed to declare motions superfluous. Mr. Chairman. A number of spokesmen, including Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Agema, have mentioned the issue of privacy. I do not want to give a careless answer here, so I would like to assure the Chamber that I will send a separate note on this matter. I know it's not linked to other systems when it comes to the midwife, but it's not what it's like with general practitioners and others. I would like to answer that very carefully and I would like to give the House a note on that. Mrs De Vries rightly asked whether you should not have a horizontal clause in the law if you are funding for four years. If I do send a note, I will be happy to answer that question as well, because that is a real question in itself. I am so optimistic to assume that as a government you guarantee funding if we in the Netherlands think this is very good, if you impose this task on municipalities and if funding is already needed, because over time it can also be seen that there is a great deal possible within existing budgets. If Mrs De Vries agrees, I should like to comment on this in the same note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u145	The question is, when is that letter coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u146	I have the suspicion that the Chamber wants it for the votes and I do not know when the vote will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u147	That makes sense to me. The votes are Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u148	We can indeed postpone the votes for another week. It depends a little on what the Secretary of State says, but I would like to have it in good time, because if a horizon clause is found to be necessary, then we must have time to incorporate it into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u149	That should indeed lead to a change of law. I'll do my best for Tuesday, but we can't break iron with hands and the officials have more to do. I will do my best for next Tuesday, otherwise I will hear from the Chamber that the vote will be postponed for a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u150	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u151	Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries felt that I was a little optimistic about the holes that are going to fall. It's my deep desire that no holes should fall. With this bill, we guarantee that jgz can be offered. That's financially suspended. The Prosperous Start programme is indeed coming to an end financially this year. In response to Mrs Van den Berg, I tried in the first instance to state that I am working in the cabinet to ensure that the existing infrastructure in the sphere of Kansrijke Start will not be broken down next year. That is not a firm commitment that it will work out, but I hope that I can hear Mrs Aukje de Vries' input on this point as an encouragement to ensure that there are no gaps. I've also heard her say "haha," what's she gonna throw at me now? We do not have to grab very much for this dossier at the expense of other dossiers. That's what I heard her say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u152	The Secretary of State now seems to take it as some kind of encouragement, so that he can say in the Council of Ministers: yes, but the VVD has asked not to let down any gaps. That is not the case. Let me take that impression away right away. Then that's what the report says. The Secretary of State says, "I want plus plus plus." I just want an effective instrument. I don't know if that's gonna take plus-plus-plus. Let it be clear: it is not a licence to make money available in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u153	Clear. I am not going to say in the cabinet that there will be a licence from the VVD Group, but that attention has been asked for how things are going. In my opinion, there is simply broad support in the Chamber for the Prosperous Start programme. If there is a beautiful infrastructure, it would be a shame to collapse it in one blow, at least that is my perception. There is no provision for funding for next year, so I think that requires an effort. Mrs Aukje de Vries' last question went so fast. Suddenly, I had to answer. It just says "municipalities." I can keep a whole reference to that, but... oh, no, it was about whether municipalities are ready. Yeah, it has to be. They have plenty of time to prepare for it, unless the First Chamber is going to slow down a lot, but I hope it won't. If it's okay, the law is well enough on time in the Official Journal. A very accompanying programme is being set up, including with municipalities. So I'm optimistic about that. I undertake to do my utmost to ensure that municipalities are fully prepared for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u154	Very nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-17.u155	Is it a suggestion that votes should be postponed for a week anyway? Isn't that more practical? I see agreement here, so we will simply vote not on Tuesday but on Tuesday in a week. These are the votes on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence and his willingness to speak to the Chamber. So much for this debate. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a few moments and then we're gonna talk about the dog tax.
