ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35529, Authorisation to establish the Dutch financing and development organisation Invest International, i.e. the Authorization Act establishing Invest International. The Plenary Session of this proposal began on 22 June 2021 and was suspended after the Court's first term. We have now come to the government's answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u3	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. I'm just organizing my papers. Thank you to the members of this Chamber for the comments and questions asked about the law in the first term. My colleague from Finance, Mr Hoekstra, and I have, of course, listened carefully. We have heard praise, but also concerns and clear questions with a request for clarification. We hope that today we will be able to remove the possible uncertainties and doubts. We will answer your questions in four blocks. First, that's block one, there were questions about Invest International's dual objective: to strengthen the competitiveness of Dutch business and to contribute to the United Nations' sustainable development goals. Several MPs asked about the relationship between these two aspects. I'll get right on that. In block one, I will also discuss the architecture chosen for Invest International. Why an independent institution? Then block two. A number of members of the Chamber asked how Invest International's services to Dutch business will look in practice. Is Invest International really a progress for business and for international customers? That was the generic question. I hope to tell you more about the guarantees for how customers will find their way to Invest International. The same applies to SMEs. The third block concerns questions about how Invest International will take into account issues such as sustainable development goals, the importance of international corporate social responsibility and climate policy. I will reply to this at the end of my speech. Finally, there were many questions about the organisation's design, the possibilities of government control and the relationship of Invest International with other organisations. In some of you, we have noted concerns about the complexity and efficiency of governance. These questions will be answered by my colleague, Minister Hoekstra. I'm looking at you, Mr. Chairman, to see if this is clear in terms of layout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Minister. I propose to the Chamber that the Minister should speak by block and do the interruptions at the end of each block. Can the Chamber agree to that? Yeah? Then that's how we're gonna try. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u5	I agree with part of it, Mr. Chairman. It's kind of a complicated bill. If the Minister says something about a complicated piece, it may well be that we would like to say something about it. I would like to say that I will restrict myself and that I will not be on the microphone for all things, but if it is really complex matters, you will see me here, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u6	Of course. Then I suggest that we do the interruptions at least as much as possible at the end of the blocks. Of course there will also be a second term for the Chamber, in which the follow-up questions can be asked. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this block, I particularly address the objective of Invest International. Why was it founded and why did it unpack like that? It has come to this Chamber many times: we are an enterprising country. Many companies have traditionally, and now too, looked across national borders. We are also a solidarity country that attaches importance to and interest in addressing international challenges, also referred to as an enlightened self-interest. This Chamber knows, of course, that international trade is good and remains for a third of our national income. 2.4 million jobs in the Netherlands are related to exports and 1 million jobs in investments abroad. SMEs account for a proud 46% of exports. The Netherlands has a lot of expertise in water, healthcare, agriculture, energy and climate, but there are many more areas where specialist companies, start-ups and scale-ups can find their way. They do this, in particular by linking them to achieving sustainable development goals and by offering solutions to global issues in a commercial way. As studies have shown, business is increasingly struggling to find funding for international projects. Four key issues: Dutch banks often withdraw their physical offices from abroad; investments in emerging markets are seen by these banks as risky; banks find it too complex and therefore too risky to work with foreign governments, and Dutch SMEs find it particularly difficult to find funding. Small projects are often not interesting enough for banks in terms of scale. Governments in developing countries are also struggling to find project funding, while the societal challenges and therefore the opportunities are huge. The covid pandemic has reinforced these trends. Private investors have increasingly withdrawn from international markets. Research conducted by the Cabinet by PwC shows that there is a large capital flight from emerging markets worth about 80 billion dollars. This impact has proved to be much greater than during the 2008 financial crisis. Another reason Invest International came to the government's attention early on in terms of objectives: we always try to maintain a level playing field as much as possible. Many other countries, countries with which we are competing, already have such an institution that helps companies in activities that would otherwise simply not be able to get off the ground. The Dutch business community is very much in demand for this. You have also seen this from the many letters or contacts you may have had with VNO-NCW and others. VNO-NCW and FME, together with a number of leading companies, have recently, to your Chamber, I believe, emphasised the importance of Invest International. I will come back to market demand later in my speech. The objective. As you know, Invest International has a dual objective: firstly, to strengthen the competitiveness of the Dutch economy and secondly to contribute to solving or addressing global challenges. The aim is precisely to reinforce these two objectives. Dutch companies have knowledge and skills. I've seen it a lot on my travels as Foreign Trade Minister. They knock on the door, seek contact, want to have discussions, but also seek the funding that is needed. This comes together nicely, I say also towards Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, in Invest International. I would now like to address the specific questions raised by your Chamber under this block. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked what proportion the two objectives are in. Mrs Huizinga asked which objectives in the dual objective are given the first priority: trade interests or an approach to global challenges. Mr Crone asked, also on behalf of GroenLinks, whether the SDGs should not go above the interests of the Dutch business community. The objective is twofold, as I said: to strengthen competitiveness, but to contribute to the SDGs, and to address global issues. For the cabinet it's en-en. So maybe it's a salomon judgment you're asking me. Of course, I'm not King Solomon, but we're looking for a balance. Countries where these companies would like to operate and invest are asking for this kind of knowledge and expertise to finally be able to go a step further in the field of economic growth. Then we think of very specific sectors where the Netherlands is the frontrunner: food security, water, energy, but also in the field of health care. We're already well positioned and we'd like to expand it. I might have an interesting illustration of this. There is a study by Berenschot, Erasmus University and Netherlands-African Business Council that shows that there are opportunities for business alone for achieving the SDGs on the African continent from 1.1 billion dollars to around 2030. There's a lot of potential. From the Lower House, many of your parties constantly stress not only how we should help tackle the challenges and problems on the African continent, but also how we should help strengthen the opportunities for Dutch business, small and large. So there's unexplored terrain. Your Chamber also asked a number of questions about the need to support business. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked who really deserves to improve Invest International's earning capacity, whether the business community really needs this extra money and whether we need to export even more than we already do. There was also a question from Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u8	Ah!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u9	Maybe we should give the Minister a chance to keep her story, because if we're all gonna ask if the question is coming, it's gonna take twice as long. I'm sure those questions will come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr President, a small explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u11	I suggest that I continue to give the Minister the floor. I ask her to continue her speech and I ask the Chamber to do as much as possible at the end of the block. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mrs Prast's question was: is it necessary to set up Invest International to improve competitiveness if we are already number four of the most competitive economies? She asked if the purpose of the law is that we do better than other countries. As Mrs Prast knows, and Mr Van Apeldoorn also knows, we are of course very international intertwined. We deserve some of our prosperity and we are working on our stability, also through investments abroad. We are competitive, but we must continue to invest and we must innovate. We can only do that by looking forward. That is why, in response to Mr Van Apeldoorn, it is not necessarily about exports, but about unexploited potential and a look at the future. Status quo ultimately means regression when we look at the position and development of other countries and how they deal with it, especially when we consider that entrepreneurs experience bottlenecks in the area of financing. So competition, I say to Mrs Prast, is never an end in itself, but it is a way and a means to preserve or strengthen our prosperity and well-being, and to contribute to economic growth in countries elsewhere and to contribute to stability, directly or indirectly. That's an outcome. Of course, it is not the main objective of Invest International. Then there is the question of exactly where the bottlenecks of companies lie. As I mentioned earlier, they find it difficult to finance risky, impactful projects. Commercial financiers often don't want to or don't want to get into it. These are long-term projects in more risky areas where the impact or change can be very large, but it is a long-term process. There are examples of SME entrepreneurs who want to build a greenhouse in a complicated developing country in terms of design, with many uncertainties. If you look at the rule of law and risk cover, it is not interesting enough for commercial banks, but it is interesting for that entrepreneur. We then make the assessment through Invest International whether it is possible. Many countries in Europe, also in terms of competitiveness, have similar institutions. Germany, France, Sweden and Switzerland have these kinds of institutions and I think this was one of the basic ideas in the Rutte II cabinet to look at the design of Invest-NL and Invest International. The Netherlands also has less public funding opportunities for the international business sector compared to the neighbouring countries. So we are also playing into it by combining aid and trade and creating a more level playing field. Mr Knapen mentioned this in his speech. Then I would like to confirm once again that it is a question of and-and-and-so, but in a responsible and sensible way. I will return to the SDGs and the importance of international corporate social responsibility in a later block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u13	I have an interruption to the Minister. The Minister states that Germany has such institutions, but it was stated in the reply that Germany has a KfW Group, consisting of KfW IPEX, etc. I see an important difference with Invest International, because KfW IPEX is actively competing with the market and does not need to operate further. That's a pretty substantial difference from Invest International.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u14	I think I said'such institutions'. It is not one-on-one, I say to Mrs Faber, but there are such institutions with objectives. The Germans also have other institutions; I would like to come back in second term with the details. There are a number of instruments they use, also similar to, for example, an FMO. We have decided on the basis of studies, needs from the market of the companies themselves and the importance of being able to operate elsewhere in order to combine precisely these two objectives. We do see additionality, and I shall come back to that later. Then there was a question from Mr Van Ballekom, who also mentioned competition with China and asked what Invest International could mean in that. I fully agree with Mr Van Ballekom that Invest International will not be enough to create an overall level playing field with economic power like China. China, which also has little interest in the rules of the game that we have agreed with each other at EU and OECD level. Of course, we have confidence in the competitiveness of Dutch industry. Through Invest International, we want to support those companies that want to enter the market internationally, even in difficult markets. The Netherlands, as Mr Van Ballekom knows, also wants to comply with international agreements in the areas of financing, corporate social responsibility, the environment and social standards. That is what we want and cannot interfere with, and we are obliged to do so. We are committed to reaching agreements at European level on the rules of the game and possible legislation on corporate social responsibility. This will hopefully be dealt with later this year by Commissioner Reynders. This helps to increase the European level playing field, but also to increase the joint impact. In a multilateral context, we are of course engaged in dialogue with countries on raising standards, including with China. We don't want to go in the race to the bottom. The cabinet-wide note on China also states that we are always looking at where we can carry out pressure and dialogue in terms of building fair commercial practices and also ensuring a level playing field for businesses. For example, in order to achieve a level playing field with China, the EU is working on the International Procurement Instrument, with the aim of improving access to the Chinese procurement market, a new EU regulation to counter distortions in the internal market by foreign investment. read: to a large extent Chinese investors or Chinese state-funded companies support additional rules in the context of the World Trade Organisation on industrial subsidies....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to point out that this organisation is based on unanimity. We have not succeeded so far, but it remains an extremely important political issue. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked what market failure is addressed with Invest International. I have, of course, already outlined that some of the activities of Dutch companies are difficult to finance in certain markets for certain investments. Banks aren't lining up. Especially when dealing in emerging, complex markets in Asia but also on the African continent, we see not only high risks, but also high transaction costs. As I said before, the banks are no longer present. Know your customer policy Knowing your customer policy is demanding and costly, especially in the current context of due diligence, to standardize, that of course we also appeal to banks internationally if mistakes appear to have occurred from the point of view of the OECD guidelines, but also in what the Cabinet expects of complying with international corporate social responsibility. Invest International aims to address part of this market failure. This could be by, for example, entering a project first and lowering the threshold for other financiers. Research carried out on behalf of the cabinet shows that the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom with regard to the number of applications received from companies for bank loans. We are in the seventeenth place in the EU. This concerns not specific exports, but all applications for funding, including at national level. I'll come back to this in my block 2. With Invest International, I want to make it attractive for commercial parties to step into projects that are important, that offer opportunities, but are now ignored. Then I move on to the architecture of the new organization. Several... I'll hold, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u15	Is that still block one, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u17	The block is not ready yet, but Mr Van Apeldoorn must have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u18	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. The block is not yet ready, but I would like to come back to something that the Minister had already finished, namely the question I specifically asked about the relationship between the two objectives. The objective of the bill is twofold and the Minister said several times: it is en-en. I understand that, too, because that has been the story so far. But if you look at the legal text, there is a difference between these two objectives for a reason. A distinction is made between projects that contribute to improving the international competitiveness of Dutch industry and our earnability, and projects that contribute to solving global issues. So these are two different types of projects that are financed. Then one time it will be a project that contributes to our earning ability, and the other time it will be a project that mainly contributes to solving global issues, because that is what the law says. Hence my question: what is the expected ratio? And what if those two possibly collide on a particular project?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u19	I will try to explain this in my second term on the basis of a practical example. I'll see if we can work that out briefly. What's the expected ratio? There are a number of applications. Pending the possible agreement on this legislative proposal, we can look at that, but it is of course true that companies and financiers are now also expected to comply with the OECD guidelines in all commercial activities. It also mentions the objective and ultimately the SDGs, and we must relate to the importance of international corporate social responsibility. But we are not going to say to a company: this is purely commercial and it is not allowed. It also contributes directly or indirectly to employment and the improvement of the investment environment. It depends very much on the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u20	I think it's relevant anyway. There are also a number of political groups in this Chamber that place great emphasis on solving these global issues. In fact, the Minister cannot say in advance what proportion that will be in. The Minister says that the demands of international corporate social responsibility must be met anyway. Okay, that's clear. But then you're talking about the do-no-harm principle. This is something other than positive and active contributions to solving global issues. Let's say that there are a lot of applications that, when this bill is adopted, we have to see that Invest International says: that is especially good for the Dutch business community, that is especially good for our competitiveness and our earning capacity: that is what we are going to finance. At some point you will find that little money has actually been left or that few applications have been made for other projects. Or can the Minister say in advance: that will not be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u21	I can't give you a 100% guarantee. Of course, it's also remote from my ministry in this case. But there is a clear expectation. There are two objectives. The organisation must relate to this. Of course, we also have a measurement moment. If Invest International really is an entity, then there will be a measurement moment, an evaluation moment, to see if that balance is well preserved. I believe that this balance will be there in practice, given the great challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. In relation to social awareness, companies and financers, large and small, are clearly at the stake of corporate social responsibility. This is automatically a link with the United Nations' sustainable development goals. They apply to all countries, to the Netherlands as well as to other countries. At the request of GroenLinks, we have included an amendment in the legislative proposal to ensure that this balance will be taken into account. I recognise the importance of your question very well, but it would also be very unwise of me to say that there is a 100% guarantee because we are steering it and watching it remotely. However, there is a 100% commitment to maintaining that balance sheet and that will of course also be given to Invest International.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u22	Of those three questions, we got off a little bit. You now have an answer about the affair. The Minister will return to it in the second term. Can I see Mr Crone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u23	The minister just quoted from GroenLinks' amendment. I speak today, just like last week, on behalf of GroenLinks and the Labour Party. This was the key point for us to vote for the law or not. I find the answer that there is a balance between the general objectives too easy. I explicitly asked in the first term: if FrieslandCampina, which is a very popular company by the way, is the largest establishment in Leeuwarden, but the second largest state might do something in a developing country and thereby wipe a local dairy company from the market in a developing country, then the choice must be to support that local company. Because you know more than anyone else that politics is choosing. You're in Germany now or here. I don't want to make this too big, like last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u24	So that's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u25	The question is: what do you do and who decides? Are FMO and Invest-NL going to argue with each other about which one of them does it or forbids it? Is that a balancing framework within Invest-NL or is it going to be on your political table?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u26	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u27	Which wouldn't be so crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u28	It should not be on the political table, because that is why we naturally set up Invest International and we also have FMO. There are reports and conversations. As regards governance and the State as shareholder, we will come back to that in the term of Mr Hoekstra. I'm always a little worried about using a theoretical case... As I said, I will be happy to work on it in the second term. I will take your explicit example and, in the light of what has been established, I will show you how the decision-making steps would go. But it's an executive organization. The objectives and political expectations are very clear. As it happens, we're talking about FrieslandCampina. FrieslandCampina is working in many countries to set up and strengthen the capacity of local farmers. They take away the products, improve the quality of the products and ensure a better and affordable wage, and improve working conditions. I am not here to applaud FrieslandCampina, but I happen to have named and visited some of their projects in this context, so I am familiar with them. The cabinet is very clear about what is to come from the legislative framework at European level. If you adhere to international corporate social responsibility and carry it out, this conflict is ideally not mentioned. But we must make sure that there are safeguards; I agree with you. I would like to come back to this briefly in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u29	You'll get back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u30	Well, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u31	The Minister states that it is difficult for SMEs to obtain funding. Invest International's little brother is Invest-NL. We have read in the media that it is very difficult for them to get the money put away. Wouter Bos says: I do not deal with SMEs. Invest International is an international organisation in an international playing field. Makes it even harder for me. To what extent does the Minister think that the money actually reaches SMEs? Invest-NL is already failing, so how does she see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u32	As Mrs Faber will understand, I am not going to review the interview with Mr Bos. From the international trade perspective, all the trade missions we have led and the proactive international trade agenda of this cabinet, it has constantly been argued from the business community itself, the SMEs, the different political parties and the interests representatives that SMEs need more support. It shouldn't just be a one-stop shop. They are focusing on the lack of funding, and they want to internationalise much more and more quickly in certain sectors. That is the demand from the market. I referred earlier to the market failure towards Mr Van Apeldoorn. Invest International is partly a response to this problem. SME-Netherlands focuses on the Dutch market, so they are indeed different relationships. I understand what you are saying, Mrs Faber, but this is the objective. We attach great importance to this. It's been well examined. This also stems from requests from SMEs themselves and is supported in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u33	That was a very good question from my predecessor. During the discussion about Invest-NL in the Upper House, two years ago, we warned exactly about this. At that time we also heard nice stories about SMEs, but the law had not yet been passed or the minimum amount was already set at 30 million. In the meantime, nothing has been invested in Invest-NL. What is being invested, I believe, is invested in funds, so it completely misses its goal. That happens in the Netherlands. Can the Minister explain why it would work better at international level? I honestly don't believe any of that. I hear a lot of study solutions, but this isn't gonna work out that way in practice. How can the Minister assure us that there is also access for SMEs from the Netherlands? I would like to hear that from the Minister in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u34	I understand the certainty with which Mr Otten says this. The concrete answer is yes, because it is also intended for SMEs. Special attention will be paid to SMEs and there will be contact points. We have been working for some time from the cabinet to reduce the transaction costs and administrative burdens often faced by SMEs. We do that through the RVO and other channels. It is really intended that SMEs know where to go, that they will be accompanied and that they will be helped to take that step. The greatest hesitation for many SMEs I have spoken to in recent years and which I also hear in conversations with Jacco Vonhof, the chairman of the SME Netherlands, is precisely the lack of risk finance and money for the initial studies. After that, the Dutch entrepreneur often gets along just fine. But there are also risks of entrepreneurship and of course we are not taking away everything. We do want to guide, facilitate and create space, but it is also always a question of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u35	That is a nice general story, but I do not hear any concrete commitment. How much of the 833 million will be reserved for SME projects? Do you make a commitment here, in the sense that at least 200 million will go to SMEs? It was just compared to the Germans and the Swiss. I think the Minister is targeting the KfW Development Bank. It has more than 10 billion and access to the capital market. That's about totally different amounts of money. In practice one will participate a bit with the big boys and join larger projects. So far, the Minister cannot convince me that there is something to be done for SMEs in practice. How?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u36	How? By making funding available, by funding studies, through guidance and support, including from the embassies, and through the network of both FMO and Invest International in the future. Because there is, of course, that synergy. I shall return to Mr Van Ballekom's questions in a moment. There's a hole in the market. This is done at the request of SMEs. I think it's important that we really start Invest International, but it's still market-driven. I'd like to come back to this in the second term. I need to see if I can find out in my block which part of the funding will be made available to SMEs. But it is also intended that we give space to companies to come up with their ideas and potential products and say: I need support, I see opportunities and I have a need for funding. The aim is not to create a State-led SME. We would like to leave room for entrepreneurs. I would just like to look at whether a share of funding is an earlier market for SMEs, because Mr Otten is right to look for that clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u37	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u38	I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u39	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u40	Yes, please, because we all heard this from Invest-NL. The law hadn't been passed yet, or Bos said, "I'm not gonna do anything below $30 million." The only concrete solution is that part of this amount will be specific to SMEs...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u41	That's what the Minister's gonna come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u42	We look forward to that with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u43	You continue your speech, Minister. The block is not ready yet, but Mrs Prast also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u44	I saw the fact that the others were actually given the floor as an encouragement to do my earlier interruption. I wanted to do this because the Minister mentioned a number of names of last week's speakers who had asked something about the different objectives, how they relate to each other and about the balance between them. I didn't hear my name and that surprised me. That's why I wanted to say straight away: is that still happening? Maybe the minister put it under another block. That's what I was gonna ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u45	I can imagine. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u46	I read Mrs Prast's question literally, with her name included, and I also answered the question. It was about the fourth competitive economy. I explained why the cabinet feels that we still need to strengthen and improve that. That was the question that was taken, but maybe there was another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u47	It was about the list of questions about the different objectives and the trade-offs between them. The Minister mentioned a number of names of questioners there. That wasn't my question. The question about competition has been answered and my name has been mentioned. So that wasn't my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u48	This has been corrected in the Acts. Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. I'm making the commitment anyway... I would like to check whether another question has been raised by Mrs Prast, whom I did not take with me. Then I'll be happy to answer it separately. Then about the architecture of the new organization. Several groups have asked questions about the choice of setting up a separate organisation for Invest International. Like I said, we went back to the old block with that. Senator Van Ballekom has asked a number of in-depth and relevant questions. Why is Invest International not part of FMO or Invest-NL, for example? I can imagine those questions. Following the critical opinion of the Council of State, the government has kept a close eye on the direction chosen. What were the alternatives? Maybe I can start with that. The Invest International option to accommodate at FMO was one. There is undoubtedly synergy between the activities of FMO and Invest International. Both financial institutions operate internationally and the geographic markets will partly overlap. This was the main reason to ask FMO to join as a joint shareholder in order to ensure good cooperation, learn from each other and strengthen each other. But we deliberately didn't choose to house Invest International at FMO as a 100% daughter. As we hope, FMO and Invest International have different mandates and different target groups. FMO focuses on private sector investments in developing countries. Invest International focuses on funding for Dutch companies, start-ups, scale-ups, SMEs or larger companies, and on public funding for governments in developing countries. We considered it important not to water down the mandate of FMO, which is truly known as a top organisation. FMO is one of the best international development finance banks and we are really proud of that. FMO has achieved this through a clear focus on financing the private sector in developing countries. FMO focuses specifically on financial inclusiveness, agriculture and renewable energy. For optimum effectiveness and in fact the competitive capacity of FMO itself, that focus, that clear mandate, should remain so, the government believes. In addition, FMO has no broad experience and a network towards Dutch business. Invest International gets a broader assignment and another assignment, with other focus sectors and wider geographical coverage. This task cannot be optimally completed under the umbrella of FMO. The experience with NLinBusiness, in a way the predecessor of Invest International's investment capital, has also shown this. NLinBusiness had to thrive within an FMO organization that had a different focus and could therefore not spread the wings as well as was actually necessary to use its own capital. This has also been an important consideration that the government has taken into account in the ultimately chosen solution with FMO as a co-shareholder. After considering all the pros and cons, I do not think that you will ever hear me, nor Mr Hoekstra, say that this deserves the ultimate beauty prize, we think this is the most appropriate solution, given the objectives set. Invest International can make use of FMO's expertise and international networks, but it can and must set its own lines independently. I am well aware that this raises questions. Senator Van Ballekom, as I mentioned earlier, Mr President, with his many years of international financial experience, explained this well and eloquence. But we expect cooperation between the two institutions to prove itself in practice. The cabinet has every confidence in that. Considering everything, the government believes that the potential disadvantages outlined do not outweigh the benefits of an independent Invest International. Mr. Chairman. The VVD and other political groups I do not have the names here; in advance excuses have also asked why Invest International and Invest-NL have not been merged. The reasons are actually similar to the outline of the debate on the classification at FMO. Invest-NL, I would also say to Mr Otten, has a mandate to focus explicitly on a limited number of sectors and target groups in one market: the Dutch market. I do not think I need to repeat what the objectives of Invest International are. The opportunities and risks and the considerations in them are also very different. International funding requires a different type of expertise. I am aware of the fact that there are a number of Members in this Chamber who have applied this expertise for years. Knowledge and sense of foreign markets for countries with very much less well-functioning institutions and institutions, coupled with the needs for the Dutch export sector, require a different look, experience and approach. We also want to avoid the risk that a national focus at Invest International will be at the expense of international investment, especially in view of the international perspective and positioning of the Netherlands and also the business community. But there is synergy to be achieved. Where this is possible, the two institutions will undoubtedly unite. The foundations for good cooperation have been laid, including a clear agreement laying down the principles for such cooperation. I referred earlier to other countries. For example, Sweden has a development bank, Swedbank, and an export financing bank, SEK. That combination seems to work well. The last question under this block, Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Van Ballekom asked whether RVO, the National Entrepreneurship Agency for the Netherlands, should not become the contact point for Dutch business. To some extent, I share Senator Van Ballekom's assessment. The RVO is, of course, and must remain the first contact point for internationally operating companies. But in the government's view, there are many advantages in bringing all aspects of financing investment projects and export activities under the same roof. It is important that Invest International is remote from the State and is not housed under the roof of a public financing organisation in order to qualify a deposit as a financial transaction and not at the expense of the EMU balance. For further questions on this, I would like to look at my colleague Hoekstra as the Minister of Finance. Then block 1 of the cabinet has been answered. Then I will continue with block 2 on Invest International's services to Dutch business in practice. How's that gonna go? What are the guarantees and so on? Under this block I deal with the intended activities of Invest International, the services to Dutch business, including SMEs, and to Dutch authorities, and the additionality to the market. It's a dangerous morning, Mr. Chairman. Things are falling apart here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u50	There's gonna be renovations soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u51	I would like to reiterate that one of the reasons for Invest International was to strengthen our competitiveness, i.e. the earnability, but also the SDG statement. There are conditions. Invest International works, as I have said many times, demand-driven: questions from business and public institutions in developing countries. The aim of Invest International is to operate additional to the market. It does not pick up activities that can be financed by other, possibly private parties. It is therefore not intended that this will lead to market distortion, far from it. Conversely, Invest International wants to lower the threshold for private parties, including banks, to invest in; the so-called "buying-in" effect. The focus is on projects that will not be implemented without the intervention of Invest International. That's what I'm linking to creating opportunities. The broad focus is scope for start-ups and scale-ups, especially in the case of technology relevant in many sectors, especially for developing countries, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises and large businesses, as well as public parties and public authorities for the development of infrastructure projects. SMEs, I repeat, Mr Otten, are an important target group. In order to serve them well, a separate department is set up with knowledge relevant to the target group, and expertise. This department will also contribute to a financial solution. I will confirm whether a financial envelope has already been drawn up for this purpose. Then there's the market demand. We have had research conducted into potential market demand. This market demand appears, as I said earlier, to be significant in terms of financing needs. I have already mentioned PwC's research report, which is based on figures from the European Central Bank. This shows that it is difficult for Dutch companies to obtain a bank loan. 72% will only be honored. If you compare that with Belgium, France and the United Kingdom, it is above 90%. I will return to the seventeenth place we have in Europe. That's gotta be better. There is sufficient demand and the research shows on the basis of demand that Invest International can expect to invest over 200 million euros per year in the long term, after six years. There is one further comment, and many in this Chamber know this better than anyone else: experience with such funds shows that it takes time to build a pipeline of projects and applications for funding. The government estimates that the numbers will be lower in the first few years. The Court of Auditors has carried out a valuable investigation into this. Finally, on this general point, before Mr Otten might ask a question, I really want to stress that VNO-NCW, SME Netherlands and FMO Invest International really support from the question, from the odds and from the relevance. These organisations also believe that Invest International is going to help reduce the current fragmentation of government regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u52	Was that block two, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u53	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u54	I would ask Members to keep their interruptions as much as possible until the end of the blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u55	I just had a question about the problematic financing of SMEs by the banks in the Netherlands. That is indeed a specific Dutch problem. This is partly because we have too few banks, but also when ABN AMRO et cetera is nationalized, there are not enough conditions at that time, unlike in England, for example. How does the Minister intend to solve this structural problem with the Dutch capital market, which has been there for years, with Invest International? With all due respect, but with 833 million you will not solve that problem, especially if there is only a very small part available to SMEs. So how does this solve the structural problem? I don't understand. Perhaps the Minister could explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u56	I do not think it has been said that this is a structural solution to the problems. It meets a market demand and it is a start-up, but with one institution we do not solve a bigger structural problem within the Netherlands. I think that my colleague in the finance department will probably come back to that too. I will come back to it in the second term, but they are incomparable. This is one of the ways to help tackle a bigger problem, but it's not a one-on-one relationship. Then Mr Knapen and Mr Van Ballekom asked about the synergy between the public and private sector and the linking of the tasks to invest and subsidise. That was also a question from Mr Van Ballekom. How are grants and investment capital in Invest International brought together to the value of 1.5 billion and indeed the 833 million respectively? Invest International offers export and investment finance to Dutch companies through this investment capital, the 833 million. This strengthens risk capital, which is not possible under the current other arrangements. So if you look at the earning ability and the SDGs, this is a way to boost that. In doing so, Invest International will implement existing ODA and non-ODA schemes......................................................................................................................................................................................... These finance public infrastructure projects in developing countries. The schemes have large existing project portfolios that also pass along. This current value is EUR 1.5 billion. These infrastructure programmes, I would like to stress this, and Mr Knapen knows this if no other infrastructure programmes are unbound and are tendered through international tenders. Practice shows that half of these assignments are won by Dutch parties, simply because they are the best. They have relevant expertise, are well positioned, have confidence in the market, but are also trusted by others and by third parties. By placing these activities with one organisation, the financing of these international projects and exports is combined. This has a great advantage for the customer, the Dutch business community and for governments. This is how we hope that this will be the objective and I think that it will be possible to increase effectiveness and impact. Invest International offers a wide range of aid and trade instruments. The answer to a further question from Senator Van Ballekom is therefore not that arrangements worth 1.5 billion are needed to make investment capital effective. The additionality requirement remains unchanged. Bringing together under one roof offers many advantages. Mr Crone asked about safeguarding the interests of smaller companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, in the strategy. How is it monitored that, for example, there are not suddenly multinationals that are going to attract aid? Can the strategy be covered with the Chamber? Mrs Moonen asked if I could promise that the position of SMEs will be taken into account in the evaluation. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the relationship between SMEs and large businesses. Is there a risk that the investment money will go to multinationals? In principle, Invest International is open to all types of companies. I mentioned a number of them. No one's been ruled out. In theory, multinational companies are not excluded either, as long as the projects meet the required conditions, SDGs and additionality, but start-ups and SMEs play an important role in the strategy. Invest International has been specifically commissioned to optimally operate SMEs, including start-ups. It is true that SMEs are experiencing a financing problem, and that is of course not true when it comes to multinationals. Invest International also introduces the DGGF scheme "Dutch Good Growth Fund' and the DTIF scheme, which were created only for the SME group. They've been around for a couple of years. I've told you before that there's a separate department. I certainly also believe that Mrs Moonen's question about the position of the SME entrepreneur, as well as whether the balance sheet should really be taken into account in the evaluation. I would, however, like to return in the second term to the possible risk, which I personally consider to be very small but never excluded, that multinationals can also claim this kind of limited tax money in a disproportionate way. I'd like to see how that's handled better. I'll give you that for the second term. Mr Crone asked where companies could knock on the door and whether they would not be sent from the cabinet to the wall in the future. Mrs Huizinga asked how this relates to the role of RVO and specifically the SIB regime. My mother used to say "frappez, frappez toujours," but I don't want to sound like a broken record that keeps spinning around. I hope I have appointed enough that Invest International will be the point of contact for all financing issues of companies and local authorities. It's placed under one roof. RVO continues to play an important role. They have the experience and, of course, we don't want to do capital destruction. Of course, we are also thinking of the role RVO plays in the provision of country information, the organisation of trade missions, the preparation of entrepreneurs and the Starters International Business scheme, SIB, a scheme aimed at providing vouchers to start-ups. For example, for coaching and knowledge development, the RVO remains extremely important. This is not a financing scheme, but it is a very important support channel. It is also known by many companies, including SMEs. So we need to strengthen that, not reduce it. In practice, these organisations will therefore have to work very closely together and refer to each other. That can't be a situation of "kitchen to the wall." Someone always has to take responsibility to deliver the solution. We shall, of course, look into that. Mrs Faber and Mr Otten asked questions about the additionality of Invest International. Does it always apply? How is it operationalized? Why isn't it in the statutes? Invest International's activities must be additional to the market. So we're not aiming at an unintentional displacement of market players. That condition is laid down in the Founding Law before your Chamber. Because these are policy principles, this is laid down in the law and not in the statutes. Then there is the whole legitimate question of how operationalisation works in practice. Invest International examines with banks whether a business loan cannot be provided through regular commercial channels. Invest International also checks whether the company has tried to obtain a commercial financing. I think it is also a link to Mr Van Apeldoorn's question and also asks if there is proof of that. There will be a complaint procedure for market participants who consider that there has been a market distortion. Invest International must comply with EU state aid frameworks. Invest International can, of course, set up new instruments together with commercial parties, banks, such as a joint fund, and it can therefore accept higher risks. In this respect, Invest International also has a leverage function to mobilise additional private capital. We believe that market research will allow the organisation to invest more than 200 million a year in the long term. That is the question that has not yet been addressed by the commercial market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you on the point of additionality with the markets, that this would be market distorting. I have also noted in my first term that at the same time there must be a market-based debt instrument or to be defined, I believe, yield. These are two possible objectives, because the question is then what opportunities for commercial success Invest International will see that the market does not seem to see. And if it wrings, what are the risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u58	I would like to come back to that in the second term, because I would like to put it to Mr Van Apeldoorn's other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u59	Perhaps then I could ask the Minister to come back to what I asked in the first term about the lessons that we can learn from Invest NL in this respect. Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr., uh, Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u62	I don't blame you, Mr President, that can just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u63	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u64	Good. About the statutes, the purpose described in the law and the purpose described in the statutes. They are almost entirely the same, except that the law states that Invest International needs to work on the market further. But that's not in the statutes. Then I wonder: why is almost the whole target definition the same, apart from additionality? Because the Minister himself has already indicated that the European Union's state aid framework is being respected and that additionality is being assessed. So why isn't it included in the statutes? I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u65	I need to check this out. The position of the cabinet is because it is about policy principles. That's the answer. But I'd like to come back to it very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u66	I would like to add something to that, and perhaps you can think about it right away. So the whole purpose would not really have to be in the statutes, because we can refer that back to the law, then that is no longer necessary, right? Or maybe I'm wrong about that? Perhaps you can respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u67	About additionality: I have looked into what happens when you sign up to Invest-NL for a credit in the preparation of this entire dossier. Then you have to answer some questions. One is: have you already asked for funding from a commercial party or from a bank? If you answer no to that, you'll still be eligible. I won't say you're gonna make it eventually, but it's gonna be taken care of. That's one question. The other question is also in relation to this. In preparing for this, I have also subscribed to the vacancies offered through Indeed for Invest International. This morning I found this: On the team you are the commercial relationship manager who independently acquires and realizes new deals. You strengthen the team in the workplace and with your experience in financing SMEs and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u68	What is your question, Mrs. Prast?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u69	The question is: how does this fit in with additionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u70	I haven't seen the vacancy, but I don't think it suits me to comment on the vacancy now. I'll have it read, but I don't quite see the connection. I think it's more important what I just said, that Invest International checks with banks or that a business loan cannot be provided through regular commercial channels. It is also being checked whether the company has tried to obtain commercial financing, and it is being asked for proof of this. There will also be a complaint procedure, so I would like to repeat the answer to this question. Let me look at some additional examples. As far as the vacancy is concerned, I can't respond to that right now. Mrs Prast asked for support to be given to the statement that local authorities have limited access to funding for projects. There is also an international shortage of financing on favourable terms for non-commercially viable projects, which has also been frequently identified. It is true that we have to think about building infrastructure, particularly in developing countries. The United Nations estimates the global shortage of available investments to reach sustainable development targets at 2.5 trillion dollars a year. The World Bank estimates the required investment in infrastructure in developing countries at around 4.5% of their gross national product. There is a lack of money, there is a lack of capacity and other resources to finance necessary public goods, such as infrastructure. According to international agreements with the World Bank and IMF, these countries may only borrow on favourable concessional terms, so that they do not run into debt problems. However, this deficit has been reinforced by the covid crisis. As a result, financers increasingly withdraw from high-risk projects. The debt that many of these countries already had has been increased, also by the covid pandemic, which has affected not only their health systems but also, in particular, the economic resilience of many already vulnerable countries. Mrs Huizinga asked why so few resources have been made available for the development task compared to other tasks. There are a few cups. EUR 9 million will be made available for project development, as Mrs Huizinga knows, by Invest International. In the end, that adds up to a considerable amount. Every year 15 to 20 projects can be developed here. Some of the money will be repaid if the investment has proved successful. Projects under the project development task are often smaller, with an average size of a few tonnes per year, unlike the millions below the investment task. There are several development cooperation arrangements that will be transferred to Invest International. A budget is also foreseen for the development of projects. That is another EUR 15 million a year, in addition to the EUR 9 million project development budget mentioned. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the focus of Invest International, whether EU Member States are also "foreign" and thus within the reach of Invest International. The answer is yes. Where the market cannot or will not provide financing for an international activity and where the other conditions are met, Invest International can board. This also applies within the EU. However, in view of all the objectives and the steps to be taken, it is expected that the market will be particularly outside the EU, wherever the risks are greatest and most real. There is the greatest demand and additionality will also be the most impactful. Mr Beuker asked about the criteria that Invest International will apply to the choice of projects to be financed and whether investment would not be "ideologically driven" in Mr Beuker's words. Will it help achieve the climate goals? Well, Invest International, as has often been the case, draws up an investment policy within the framework of the law, the supplementary agreement and the statutes. These are clear criteria for funding. As I said, core capital is demand-driven, but it is also really expected from the core capital to contribute to solving global issues. Of course, this includes the climate mentioned earlier by Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Crone and others as a global priority. This is not ideology, this is an internationally accepted agenda, the sustainable development goals, also by the Netherlands and by almost all countries signed in 2015, and of course also the Paris Agreement. Companies and banks have been involved in the development of this agenda and they also embrace the SDGs in this case. Most have an index and many of the investments are therefore weighted. This is also reflected in the recent vision piece of VNO-NCW and SME Netherlands, entitled Enterprise for broad prosperity, which states that Dutch business wants to make a difference on the SDGs in 2030. Companies in the Netherlands have therefore joined the SDG agenda through organisations such as the Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition and the Global Compact Network Netherlands. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, that's all in English every time; I can do my best to translate this kind of jargon. In a recent study among around 100 Dutch companies, two thirds of respondents indicated that their organisation's commitment to contribute to the SDGs has increased last year. So the cabinet sees it not as ideology, but as international agreements that are relevant, in which we can play a role and contribute. This is also increasingly endorsed by society. Mrs. Prast asked when a company would be considered Dutch. Is a Chamber of Commerce registration sufficient? A Chamber of Commerce registration is not enough. The point is that the financing of a company or a project contributes... I have two more questions under this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u71	You're gonna have to finish it quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u72	... to the earning power of the Dutch economy. So we're not funding mailbox companies. In any case, as you know, the cabinet has been working hard from the very beginning to close down letterbox companies, to prevent tax evasion, etc. The contribution to the Dutch economy is assessed through the percentage of Dutch share in a transaction, the Dutch interest involved in a transaction and the future earning capacity for the Netherlands. That's not new. Atradius DSB also works with such a Dutch share requirement. Mr Crone asked what would happen if FMO and Invest International compete for the same project. Who's gonna decide? Both channels aim at as much impact as possible. The whole chain is being looked at, including possible partnerships. In Mr Crone's example, Invest International and FMO could discuss which project has the greatest positive impact locally, because they are both aimed at doing so. In practice, however, I consider an example unlikely, given the differences in mandates and the importance of proper implementation. The arrival of a new CEO of FMO confirmed this. There will be a cooperation agreement that can regulate such eventualities well, but as we all know, the proof of the pudding in the eating is. It is good to remain vigilant on that. The last question is from Mr Beuker. He asked whether there would be a shift from the organisation's focus to the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom and whether it could not be considered. Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius belong to the Dutch economy. Companies from these islands are therefore eligible to finance their international activities under Invest International as well as Dutch companies. Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are separate countries within the Kingdom and are therefore foreign in the mind of the law. But Invest International can be encouraged to finance local projects, which also contribute to the Dutch economy and, of course, to prosperity and well-being there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u73	The Minister has clearly stated that we are likely to differ on climate and strategic objectives of understanding. That's no problem at all. I also asked whether, in the context of the energy transition, we are going to export biomass and biomass theory. I didn't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u74	That's already block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u75	I just need to see if it's under heading 3. I think so. If not, I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u76	Block 3 is sustainability, I thought. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u77	Now that we are at the end of block 2, a question about the Sustainable Development Goals. But maybe the minister will come back to that in another block? I had specifically asked about its review, how rigorous it will be, and whether it would also be based on the do-no-harm principle and not just on the do-no-harm principle. Or is that another block? I would now like to ask the Minister what this will look like in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u78	In principle, this has to come back in block 3, but let me see if this question by Mr Van Apeldoorn is actually in my folder. If not, I'll come back to it in second term. But I am now going to answer other questions in the block of SDGs, imvo and impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u79	I would like to come back to the ratio between the 833 million and the 1.5 billion. I understand that the government has chosen to make life easier for business by creating a onestop shop. That's very noble. But when I come to Invest International as a company with an investment project, it is obvious that Invest International goes to RVO and says: I have a wonderful project here and I think that is eligible for this scheme? Then what's the difference? Then it remains a onestop shop for the company, as Invest International submits such an application to RVO. So it doesn't matter to the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u80	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u81	My question is what the difference is, why it lies with Invest International and not with RVO. I also ask this because the Court of Auditors has said that this is yet another fund which indirectly excludes the use of the 1.5 billion from parliamentary budgetary supervision. That's one argument. The second argument is: if you bring it all under one roof, then the temptation could arise to make some projects more financially viable if Invest International is not able to finance enough projects by making the arrangements more flexible, and that is what I think is wrong. I would very much like the Minister to comment on this and also on it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u82	Let me now give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u83	...the ratio between the 1.5 billion and the 833 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u84	You already asked me that. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u85	Mr Van Ballekom asks a number of questions. I would like to come back to that in second place, because it is about the relationship. But RVO has a different role. It's already being fulfilled. The onestop shop has several hatches within one entity. So I do not so much see the risk of rolling pollution, which, of course, we all have to watch out for. The question of evading parliamentary control is, of course, not the intention, but I would like to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you very much for the answer to the question whether they really should be Dutch companies. Invest-NL finances Dott, Dott makes electric steps. Dott has a registration with the Chamber of Commerce and also an office in Amsterdam. But if you look at that office's website, there's a German phone number. None of Dott's board members are Dutch. The electric steps are not produced in the Netherlands or sold in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u87	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u88	My question is: does Invest International do this differently than Invest-NL? Perhaps the Minister of Finance can answer that as well, because he is, of course, actually about Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u89	I'm not able to comment on Invest-NL. I just described how Invest International is organized and what needs to be met. I'm in no position to draw that equation. But the Minister of Finance is still being discussed and otherwise we will do so in the second term, in good consultation. Then I move on to the last block of my side: SDGs, imvo and impact. As you know from other debates, the SDGs guide government policy. We stand for tackling and solving global issues. This has also been clearly mentioned in the legal objective and we want to continue to promote this ambition. Invest International should set this out in its multi-annual strategy. As far as imvo is concerned, this cabinet, as you know, building on the government agreement, has worked on building blocks for what international corporate social responsibility can look like in the chain. We are working on the option of adopting legislation at European level. I mentioned earlier the work dealt with by Commissioner Reynders. Meanwhile, the OECD Guidelines, the UN Guiding Principles and the IFC Performance Standards continue to apply to all companies. It is also quite clear that whatever happens to imvo, it should not create an additional burden as Mr Knapen rightly pointed out. The limited capacity of SMEs is taken into account and I also refer to the State's imvo ambitions as a shareholder, as also explained in a letter of Parliament in June 2020 by the Minister of Finance. Special attention is also paid to vulnerable groups under the heading "international standards." I am thinking of women, minorities, human rights representatives. Climate policy and fossil, as a general remark. As I said earlier in response to Mr Beuker, combating climate change is, of course, an important global issue. Invest International will also focus on this and finance green projects. Invest International is considered to act in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It will not finance coal exploration and the development of new oil and gas stocks. Invest International thus joins the greening policy of this cabinet. Other possible funding of fossil-related projects is subject to "no, unless." Following a motion by the House of Representatives, this policy has been strongly strengthened. Several members of the Senate asked about the relationship of investment policy with the SDGs, the translation of the social return requirements and the achievement of the SDGs in the KPIs, the key performance indicators. Mrs Huizinga asked me if I could say anything about Invest International's focus on the SDGs. Mrs Prast asked about the use of water. I believe that her question was: is it logical that Invest International is working on the water problems in developing countries, which we are mainly causing with our trade flows? The primary focus within the SDGs is on SDG 8, fair jobs and fair economic growth, and on SDG 13, climate action. Concrete KPIs have not yet been established, but it is of course intended that this will be done by the Invest International team. Invest International will also focus on other SDGs, such as SDG 2, no hunger, SDG 3, good health and well-being, SDG 6, clean water and plumbing in that area, there is also a lot of knowledge and expertise from the Netherlands, SDG 7, affordable and sustainable energy, and SDG 12, responsible consumption and production. Of course, they also focus on finding funding to prevent and tackle water problems in third countries. It is logical that the Dutch knowledge and expertise can also be used on this. I understand the point that Mrs Prast is making about the risks and the negative consequences of globalisation going crazy, but I do not think that we can impose flooding and the effects of climate policy on trade alone. This requires a broader analysis. In that respect, I do not quite recognize myself in the question. The consequences of climate change affect all countries, and many countries far away much earlier. It causes conflicts, directly or indirectly, and it also affects migratory flows resulting from poverty and climate change. Ms Moonen asked how SDG 5, gender equality, would be included. I thank Mrs Moonen for that question. The purpose of this cabinet is, of course, to cut across. SDG 5 is an objective in all regulations dealing with foreign trade and development cooperation, FMO and Invest International. These schemes actively contribute to increasing gender equality and are monitored and measured. One example is the creation of jobs for women in developing countries. This is also covered by the imvo standards. It has been established that investments should not prejudice the SDGs, including SDG 5. That they should not compromise it, the do-no-harm principle, which Mr Van Apeldoorn reported, is one thing, but that is not enough, because of course you want to try to make a contribution to transformation. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked if Invest International is a means to reach the SDGs. Isn't it better to increase the development cooperation budget? There's a big shortage. As Minister for Development Cooperation in a Demissionary period, I can only say that much more will have to be done, but development cooperation is one means. If you look at SDG 17, the official development cooperation budget is the catalyst, but much more is needed. Taxation is needed and investment is needed at local level, as is foreign direct investment. Much more is needed than the always limited resources of official development cooperation. I assume that there will also be talk at the formation table about the investments and role of the Netherlands abroad, including an appropriate ambition in terms of development cooperation. Mrs Prast asked which components of the vast wealth Invest International should contribute in particular. How is this weighted in the selection of projects? I have already mentioned the SDGs in detail. These are closely related to the concept of "wide prosperity." That's how it's weighted. If you want to know in the second term exactly what the roadmap is in that weighting, I have to ask what has already been prepared by the Invest International team. Mrs Prast also asked whether the danger of zoonoses and pandemics is an example of a global issue. As far as I am concerned, the answer is yes, and that is also the appreciation of the cabinet. This also relates to SDG 3, good health and well-being. But that is not the only thing, of course, because it is also about how to produce and consume and how to deal with the global climate crisis. It has to be weighed in its entirety, but it is an example of a global issue. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mrs Faber asked questions about the imvo policy of Invest International and of shareholder FMO. What does Invest International's imvo policy look like in practice? What lessons are taught from FMO? What is the Minister doing about the abuses at FMO and what about Invest International? Invest International hasn't officially been established yet, so I hope there haven't been any abuses there yet. The cabinet always acts on the basis of information messages, and not on the basis of slander and anonymous gossip. On the basis of information, an assessment is made as to whether an investigation is necessary. In the case of FMO, I have addressed the former CEO several times to reports in the newspapers about abuses that have taken place in countries far away and in which direct or indirect involvement of FMO was demonstrated. FMO has taken the change agenda and due diligence even tighter. The new CEO will certainly pull this very hard. FMO monitors the investments throughout the lifetime. This includes a complaint mechanism. In the case of abuses, FMO must take its own measures, including the cessation of payments. Invest International's imvo policy is derived from that of FMO and the RVO, and is defined in consultation with other stakeholders, such as civil society. But, of course, there are demands and lines on the part of the cabinet. I am closely monitoring the implementation of the imvo policy. Close monitoring of something and plotting expectations towards third parties does not mean that wrongdoing can be avoided in the future, but we are very clear in our demands and expectations, and in the possibility of action. Mr. Chairman, I have two more questions and then I'm done with this block. Maybe that's possible. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mrs Prast asked about the working conditions of Invest International projects. Can the Minister guarantee that Invest International creates jobs that offer a living wage and good working conditions? Can Invest International support activities using cobalt mined under appalling conditions in Congo? Invest International, as I mentioned earlier, focuses on SDG 8 and is considered to be genuinely acting in line with international guidelines for fair work, including the OECD guidelines, the IFC's Performance Standards and the ILO guidelines. This means that Invest International must pay sufficient attention to the creation of good jobs with a living wage and good working conditions in all projects on the front. I would like to say separately that this cabinet commissioned the ILO to investigate a new definition of a fair and viable wage in several countries one and a half years ago. They also look at working conditions, tax payments and health insurance. What is the package of a fair and living wage? That's very different from a minimum wage or whether you're under $2 plus a day. That's another discussion. The ILO project is not yet ready, but I hope it is an important step forward. If the potential project is not yet in order but there is a prospect of improvement towards international standards, Invest International can actively work towards improvement within the organisation or activity as part of the investment. Activities using child labour or forced labour are in any case excluded from funding. I agree with the questioners that we should expect Invest International to set the bar higher and not lower. Invest International will also not support activities in which work is carried out under miserable conditions, in Congo or elsewhere. That is the political wish, but also the societal desire expressed in the SDGs and the Imvo directives. Mr. Chairman, I come to my last question. Several members, including Mr Crone, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mrs Moonen, asked about the application of the so-called no-unless principle in Invest International's fossil investment policy. Mr Van Apeldoorn suggested that the fossil industry should be completely excluded from funding. With Invest International we also hope to display the cabinet ambition in the area of climate. Everything must be done in accordance with the Paris Agreement. This is stipulated in the additional agreement between the State and Invest International, which has also been shared with your Chamber. This text has been further strengthened following a motion by the PvdA and GroenLinks in the Lower House. I agree with that on behalf of the cabinet. The financing of coal projects and exploration and development of new stocks of oil and gas abroad are excluded, as I mentioned earlier. Other fossil-related investments shall not be made except in exceptional cases. There are three exceptions, which correspond to the Dutch commitment in the multilateral banks: the "no, unless" principle. It should be a significant contribution to solving an energy shortage or access in low-income countries and/or make a significant contribution to a transition path towards climate-neutral and/or there really is no other viable sustainable alternative. This has been chosen to allow Invest International to invest in countries where renewable energy is not yet feasible on a scale and at the same time to connect to an electricity network of such developmental importance for disadvantaged communities and populations in order to close the gap between urban and rural areas. Then these may be legitimate considerations, but it is a question of weighting in a much wider context. However, it is essential that the country in question where the investment is made also works on a sustainable solution to replace fossil. It is therefore not intended to create a back door for large-scale investment in fossil projects. This is a rather sharp balance, as Mr Crone has also pointed out. Invest International reports on this and the cabinet will also monitor compliance. I have just mentioned an example, but I will mention one more example that might be interesting. Three quarters of the health centers in Sub-Saharan Africa have no reliable electricity. We all want people to be treated and vaccines to be kept cool. Diesel generators are needed in combination with solar energy to cool, for example, COVID-19 vaccines. For example, two: financing public transport by LNG buses to replace heavily polluting diesels in countries where the electric transport infrastructure I think fits ourselves a little modesty here. There are grounds on which this may be possible, but it remains an exception. Then I've finished my cups, Mr. Chairman. With your permission, Mr Hoekstra will take over at an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u90	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u91	This time I waited nicely until the end of the block. The Minister states that she is aware of the abuses of FMO. I'm glad. I am also pleased that she also addressed FMO on this issue. That she doesn't gossip, I get that, too. That's very good, too. But at the time, FMO's top man said: we have a list of problems that we are following. That's a little too easy for me to follow. Those abuses have been spotted. They were not detected in one country but in several countries. The Minister states: we must act with the SDGs as a guide. If it turns out that there are still or in the future projects that do not guide the SDGs, what will the Minister do? Does that also affect FMO?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u92	I understand the question very well, but it is sometimes difficult to philosophize or speculate about a theoretical case. The SDGs are the guiding principle. To be honest, I find it difficult to imagine in 2021 that FMO is going to step into very different projects. More importantly, I think the compliance framework and the fact that FMO has to follow up on this in its management, visible and demonstrable performance not only to prevent abuses, but also to intervene in the event of actual abuses. There's a new CEO at FMO. We are going to have this kind of conversation with those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u93	The Minister says: in case they would step into such projects that do not meet them. I have raised several projects in my speech, not all of which I am going to repeat. SDG 1 is not poverty. I have indicated that workers are being exploited. Not hungry: there's underpayment. On gender: women are paid less. Good health and well-being: people are sent to the plantation with pesticides without protective clothing, etc., etc. I have a lot of these examples of projects that are already running. Again the question: is the Minister prepared to deal with this with the new CEO? Are there any consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u94	Within the frameworks that exist, we are in contact with FMO at all levels, including myself. Of course it is part of the agenda and we expect change. We cannot instruct one-on-one FMO, but we can make sure that it is actually addressed and arrested through the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u95	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u96	There's a contradiction in this. First of all, I would like to say in my language that she cannot tell them exactly what to do. But through the supervisory board and the board of directors she can steer. What is it? I personally believe that the Minister can have an influence on this and that we can certainly have consequences. The Minister also has a job in the regulatory daughter, in the developer, so there is definitely something to do. Yet all these three legs hang with the investor, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u97	Then perhaps I haven't expressed myself carefully. I am very often in contact with FMO through my staff and myself. As soon as something is going on or we hear something through the media or the complaints mechanism or in any other way, we will address FMO. There are agreements with a requirement or expectation regarding change and approach. I mean to say that they are not projects carried out by the State Department. That's a big difference. We are not directly involved, but we do have a responsibility or a co-responsibility from a political point of view, and we also take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you. You can come back to it in your second term, Mrs Faber. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u99	With regard to these SDGs, I am not entirely clear in the Minister's answer whether the guiding principle in the allocation of funding or support for projects will be that it should always make a positive contribution to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, i.e. the "do good" principle, or that "do no harm" is good enough or that it depends heavily on it; one time this and the other time that. Then I will come back to the question of what the ratio is. What exactly is the starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u100	The starting point is to get the SDGs, and then you basically do "good." Only, because of the frameworks within which you try to reach the SDGs, you have to make sure that the "no harm" principle also applies. But the goal is not "do no harm," the goal is a transformation towards a sustainable, fair and inclusive world and economy based on the goals you choose. I mentioned the "no, unless" principle only in the context of climate action and climate finance: in exceptional cases, because we do not need funding in fossil energy. I have appointed under what exceptional circumstances Invest International may have a different weighting, but that has been very explicitly appointed. But achieving the SDGs is, of course, the "do good" principle: prosperity and well-being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u101	It sounds very nice, but now I actually come back to what I talked about earlier in my speech, namely whether this means in practice that if an application for a project is ahead of us that is mainly aimed at improving the earning capacity of Dutch business, the Dutch economy, it is said: we are not going to finance it, because it does not make a positive contribution to achieving the SDG objectives. That will not be the case, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u102	I may have been in the world of SDGs for too long, so I don't know if I understand the question right now. At the beginning, I said it's en-and. We meet a demand from the market, from companies, but the guiding principle for the goal is to contribute to achieving the SDGs. But it goes through the private sector, by strengthening the opportunities for Dutch business, whether they are start-ups, SMEs or larger companies. The link from the projects and the focus are always the SDGs and the Paris Agreement. But the actor is the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u103	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u104	It's not quite clear to me. I will return to it in my second term. I have another question to ask in this connection. The Minister spoke specifically about SDG 8. I've been talking about that, too. Then it is also about living wages and good working conditions. The Minister says: yes, I confirm that. But then my question is: how is it operationalized and how is it tested, ex ante and ex post? In my first term, I also mentioned the evaluation of FMO's work, and it is said that it can sometimes be difficult to validate ex post, i.e. it is difficult to determine ex post to what extent it has actually contributed and to what extent the requirements and objectives have been achieved when it comes to imvo. My question to the Minister was: what can we learn from this and how can we ensure that it will be done better at Invest International?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u105	I would like to come back to that in the second term, because I do not know the details of the framework that has already been drawn up by Invest International from the executive apparatus. It is a relevant point that we must include in an evaluation in due course if it is not adequately covered. I think we have the same objective, namely that we want to ensure that it is properly arranged at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u106	Thank you. Then the cathedral is now cleaned. Oh, Mr Beuker has a short question. We must now move on to the deadline of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u107	A very short question indeed. My suggestion in my speech on the Caribbean was whether the islands and countries, in particular Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten, could qualify for both Invest-NL and Invest International. I do not yet have a clear picture of what the Minister is looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u108	We act in accordance with the Kingdom's statutes. I have just appointed the conditions under which funding can be claimed and for which islands. I have said how they can compete, which cannot compete and how Dutch companies can finance there. I'll reconfirm that in second term too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you. Then the cathedral will be cleaned first and then I will give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr President. May I say that we have not improved in terms of the height of the cathedral here? I see an increase is being made. Thank you for that, especially for the support that compensates for the fact that I drank way too much milk in my youth. Mr. Chairman. A few questions are specific to my policy area. Maybe it's good to start by sketching what I do and what I don't do. The Minister of Finance is a shareholder on behalf of the State in all State participations and also at Invest International. This means that I am looking at the appointment and remuneration policy, good corporate governance, financial policy and, as it is so beautifully called, talking about the strategy. Mr. Chairman. An additional agreement is concluded between the State, Invest International and FMO. It also contains agreements on matters of policy substance which are of particular importance to the State. The Foreign Minister has already mentioned a number of these issues, such as imvo, SDGs, climate, etc. The State shall contribute to the safeguarding of public interests through the exercise of its powers of control. I would like to mention this meeting because Mrs Faber, but I think others specifically asked for it during the exchange of views a week or two ago. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a number of Members, Mrs Faber, but I think Mrs Moonen and Mr Crone too, who asked what it means to have a new institution. Aren't there a lot of funds and institutions already? That is true in itself, but, of course, it serves a very specific purpose. It's a very specific branch of sport. Interestingly enough, the Growth Fund is often included and, of course, even Invest-NL, but this is really about a specific branch of sport, where FMO, Invest International, Invest-NL and the Growth Fund naturally have their own tasks. I understand that, if you look at that from a distance, you're thinking: they're multiple institutions. That is true, but they obviously have their own tasks, their own set-up and their own governance. I think it would be wise for the various types of problems or for the different types of questions that lie ahead to be different. If you were to arrange this through a joint venture, for example, you would not make that clearer; quite the contrary. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Faber asked how the Chinese walls work in practice. Mr Van Ballekom asked about the conflict of interest. That too has just been mentioned, but perhaps one more comment to supplement. Those concerns have been carefully assessed. Invest International will consist of three e.g. for the three tasks, i.e. for the schemes, investment and project development. There are simply divisions between these e.g. to separate tasks from accounting and thus also to avoid any conflict of interest. This is also a requirement of the European Commission. Mrs Faber, Mrs Moonen and others will recognise that it is much more common in business for you to have Chinese wallets of this kind between different parts of a company that still have very different types of tasks. This is common in banks, but also in other places. Ms Faber and Mr Otten asked about the shareholders of FMO and whether the shareholders' register could be shared. The shareholders of FMO are the State with 51% and private shareholders with 49%. This group then consists of banks, trade unions and private individuals. The shareholders' register shall be kept by the company itself and shall not be public. That's a provision in the Civil Code. So, in this debate, I see no possibility of working on it or revealing it. I am sure Mrs Faber will agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u111	I'd like to come back to those Chinese walls. All this may sound fun on paper, but even the Council of State writes: various expertises are brought together behind the window, so that there will be formal and informal exchange of knowledge, best practices, procedures and so on. So it may be on paper, but the practice will be different. That was the intention, of course, because they wanted to pool all that knowledge. Then it's also very difficult to get a divorce.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u112	With all due appreciation, of course, I can't just make the conclusion mine. Mrs Faber says: yes, it can be true on paper, but that is not yet true in practice. I think you should try to argue that you have a duty to ensure that what you organise on paper actually works in practice. That is the intention, but if the conclusion is that it is on paper and not in practice, we would have a much bigger problem. So I really think we've done that carefully. I agree with Mrs Faber that this is, of course, always a point of interest to the institution itself, but also in the event of an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u113	I would like to point out to the Minister that this was a statement of the Council of State. That's not the first one. I didn't make this up myself. This is really coming from the Council of State. Then it is too easy to say: it is a conclusion. No, the Council of State has this judgment. Does the Minister say that the Council of State is talking a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u114	The cabinet is extremely pleased that Mrs Faber refers here to the Council of State. That is, of course, a very venerable high college. As a cabinet, we always pay particular attention to the views that exist there. The Council of State says that this is a warning point and also articulates the importance of those Chinese walls. I agree with the Council of State and I agree with Mrs Faber. I just wanted to point out that the conclusion is that it will not work in practice, although it is well arranged on paper, and I hope that Mrs Faber agrees with me on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman. You will understand that I do not agree with the Minister at all, because it is not too short. I find it too easy to say that in practice everything will be fine. So I disagree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u116	Mr President, I had such a hunch. I have to respect and process that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u117	In the first term, I had asked for an overview of the shareholders in FMO. Now I am afraid the Minister is saying that this includes not only banks and trade unions but also private individuals. Of course, from the point of view of transparency, it is simply not acceptable for us to invest 833 million taxpayers' money in a company whose shareholders we cannot even know. This is a matter of public money. I do not think that the Minister can get rid of this by saying that the Civil Code is not allowed to do so. We need to know, or we will table a motion on this in the second term, who the shareholders are where this 833 million goes. As far as our group is concerned, it is unacceptable that this information cannot be provided to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u118	We must be careful where we are in the debate. I was just talking about FMO; it was about FMO's shareholders. By the way, in the case of more State participations, there are also other shareholders than the State of the Netherlands alone. In fact, there is a whole group of state participations where that is the case. Think of KLM, but also think of the port of Rotterdam, where as a government we are not the only shareholder. With all the appreciation that Mr Otten says "I find it unacceptable," but then parties to the creation of FMO, when that structure was chosen, should have objected that others other than the State of the Netherlands participate in it. That's one style figure; the other style figure is that you say: I want to change the Civil Code, because I think you should always have insight. I would be against that, by the way; I do not think that is wise. But those are the two routes to get to Mr Otten's views. They are indeed quite different in this respect from that of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u119	I had deliberately asked this question because it concerns the management of conflicts of interest and conflicts of interest that may arise, on the one hand between the banks and Invest International, where they say that we do not like these projects, send them to Invest International. Then you also have the risk that the less attractive projects will end up there, with all the consequences. But the cabinet deliberately chose the structure in which FMO has 49% in Invest International. It might have been more obvious to just do it at FMO, as the foreign development banks do, but that's what they chose to do. If that choice is made, then we also need to know who we are in bed with, so to speak. At the KLM we know exactly who the shareholders are. If you have that much percent, you have to report it, except for the people on the stock market, but the big parties are all known. So I don't think that's a good comparison either. We need to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u120	I think your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u121	Here again, precision is really important again. Mr Otten himself has already explained why this comparison is true. Because yes, you have to notify a company like Air France-KLM above a certain interest and then that becomes public. But there too there are a lot of shareholders that Mr Otten and I do not know and we cannot find out. This provision is in the Civil Code. Mr Otten could disagree; he would then have to get us to change the Civil Code on this point. Then he, or the Chambers should have also opposed to having such a shareholder structure at FMO. But given that it is, I don't see any possibility of revealing it now. I do not think that is desirable either. And I don't know; so for the record: it's not just that I don't think it's desirable and that I don't see any possibility of it. However, I think I have sufficiently explained the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u122	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u123	So I conclude that of FMO, partly owned by the government, is state secret who the other shareholders are. Which minister would then be responsible for the management of FMO, of that shareholdership? That is my final question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u124	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u125	Mr. Chairman. It is still a complex matter, because 'State secret' is, of course, a nonsensical remark, as it relates to a provision which is simply included in the Civil Code which applies to all companies. That has nothing to do with the State of the Netherlands, that has just to do with the Civil Code. For FMO, as for each of the state participations, there is a policy-responsible minister who sits alongside me in this case and the Minister of Finance is responsible for that pick of more structural elements and also engages in dialogue on the strategy. That is how the division of roles is; that is the case with all State participations; that is not at all unique. In some cases it is the Minister sitting next to me, in others it is the Secretary of State or the Minister of I and W, in others it is the Minister of EZK for example. That is the normal division of roles that we have known for decades in the case of state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u126	Thank you. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That stock register is starting to intrigue me. A simple question to the Minister. Is the Minister aware of the shareholders of FMO?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u128	It is, of course, Mrs Faber's right to be intrigued by all kinds of things. But still here for the precision. This is a long-standing practice in which state participations in this case have not only the State of the Netherlands as shareholder but also other shareholders. The cabinet never made a secret of that either. It is suggested that there is something very exciting about this. I think you can assume that if you look at the kind of amounts that are involved in this, the majority of those other shareholders will be called out, but that's an assessment of me by banks and other parties and not by private individuals. But I don't have a clue. That is something the institution itself has, and it is not obliged to publish. Even in these times of hypertransparency, this does not mean that every company or institution has to make everything public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you. I see that for the second term, we've registered for 45 minutes. You're not done. There's a lot of interruptions. I'll give you the floor in a minute. So I'm sure I'll issue a profit warning that if we don't make it before dinner break, tonight at 9.30 p.m. we're going to continue this debate, because we also have a second term of two directors. So take a look at what you're doing with the interruptions, but we'll know that in advance for the agendas. 'Cause we can't go on at 1:30. Mrs Faber, finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u130	Mr. Chairman. I get a very long answer from the Minister and you always have to be careful. But my question was: is the Minister aware of who the other shareholders are? Then I'm going to ask my next question right away, otherwise I can't ask it like that anymore. So, yes or no, please. If it is yes in this case, then the question is: is the Minister prepared to pass on in a confidential setting who the shareholders are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u131	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u132	Mr President, the answer is no. And no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u133	Then I propose that the Minister continue his speech and that Mrs Faber return to this in her second term. No, I'm not interrupting anymore. I'm sorry. Given the time we go differently... Nor am I interrupting Mr Otten. No, I won't allow any more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u134	On a point of order about how this debate is going now. Everyone's been cut off since 9:00. We must have a normal democratic, open discussion with the cabinet and, if necessary, we will continue this evening. It doesn't matter. We're not a stamp machine. We should all be able to get our information here from the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u135	Thank you, Mr. Otten. We're definitely gonna do that. That is why I have also given ample opportunity for some 30 to 40 questions in the event of interruption so far. I now give the Minister an opportunity to conclude his speech and then I will see if there are any more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u136	Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Faber insisted that she receive a yes or no answer. She even got two yes/no answers. It was both no, but there was a point between them. So if Mrs Faber has been paying attention, then she knows what that means. Mr. Chairman. I very much look forward to continuing the debate, possibly this evening. I have to be in the House of Representatives, so I'm sure we'll solve that problem. Mr. Chairman. I was about to make a generous commitment to Mrs Faber. I'm not going to undo it with the exchange of views just now. She asked why additionality was not included in the statutes. For the record, additionality is a prerequisite, not a goal. A statutory objective determines the company's corporate scope, but the additionality requirement may also be included in the statutes if it so wishes. It is written here with such cow letters that I can promise that I will do so immediately in all courtesy and with all kind of pleasure in her direction. Mr. Chairman. Mr Beuker and Mr Van Apeldoorn had questions about additional market operations. I think some of those questions have been answered by now. What might be good to name again is this. If you look at Invest International and the kind of projects that we hope Invest International will be able to work with later, we hope that you will be able to take more risk than private financiers and that you will be able, for example, to operate in a different way from private parties in terms of maturity. That is perhaps something I can add to the first-term exchange of views just now. I think Mr Otten asked for the standard yield, but perhaps Mr Van Apeldoorn too is partly similar to the debate we had on Invest-NL. After three years I will consider for the first time what the level of the standard yield will be. In the long term, the return will have to be sufficient to cover at least the costs and thus maintain investment capacity. That's how we're meeting right now. By the way, it is not atypical for state participations that you look at what a reasonable return is at all in time and that at the beginning that is a period with a lot of start-up costs and at all a period in which things still have to develop do not immediately impose a huge requirement for return. Otherwise, you'll only make it harder to function in the first few years. I remember the exchange of views I had here in the first term, then with Mr Wiebes next to me, on Invest-NL, because then we had a similar discussion on the return of standards. By the way, that was not with Mr Van Apeldoorn, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u137	Thanks to the Minister. More specifically, because I think there is a contradiction. Can the Minister explain how Invest International sees opportunities that the market does not seem to see, and so it must be a commercial return? Can the Minister also reflect on what we can learn so far from the experience with Invest-NL, where only a few tens of millions of total capital has been invested? It is said that this is because these two objectives do not really go hand in hand. On the one hand, it must be risky projects, which the market says we do not like. And on the other hand, it has to be profitable. Therefore, the requirements for submitted projects are also high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u138	It is common in life and also in business that you try to bring two of these kinds of goals, where there may be some tension, into your hands. You see that a lot. I'm a little more optimistic about the future of Invest-NL. I have understood the board president of Invest-NL in such a way, including in his media statements, that you are even dealing with a start-up period and that the last few years Corona have also been different and more difficult than you might have wanted. But I myself am convinced that this dual approach is the right one for Invest-NL and also for Invest International. Of course, Mr Van Apeldoorn is right: there are always market players with a completely different approach. They want to focus purely on returns and they also want to focus purely on short-term returns. That is different from what we are doing, because of course we are not doing this to make money. There is also a very clear connotation of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u139	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u140	I was wondering whether the Minister would expect such a lead time for Invest International. What can we really expect from that? I'd like to turn it around, too. Perhaps the Minister will say: we are going to take more risks with Invest International because of that social component, corporate social responsibility, the Sustainable Development Goals and so on. Could it be that at some point there are long-term losses and that the return is not being achieved? So we're gonna crash? Is there going to be more capital paid up? What's the scenario for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u141	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u142	Those are a few like-dan questions. No, of course that is not the objective. The objective is, of course, to do something that we define with each other as a social benefit, while at the same time ensuring that it is additional to the market. Then you have a discussion about the goal of return. That is precisely the discussion I am having with the House of Representatives about all the other state participations. Sometimes you can see that these objectives are being achieved. Sometimes you see that those goals are not being achieved for a while. If they are taken very widely, there are sometimes Members of Parliament who say: then the objective must be reduced, because that means that you can be more at the anchor of the social return. We have seen over the past year that there are a few State participations, two in particular, namely KLM and the NS debt securities, which have far from met the return expectations. That's what you have to relate to. I think that combination is really sensible. But Mr Van Apeldoorn is right: you always have to relate to developments that you may not be able to foresee. So if the situation is completely different in two or three years' time, we will have to re-examine this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u143	Mr Raven has not registered, but he still has an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u144	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. The Minister spoke about covid within the framework of Invest-NL and said that this is probably why the necessary investments have been postponed over the last year and a half, which may have contributed to the somewhat poor result of Invest-NL at the moment. In any case, I can see that difference with regard to Invest International. You can see that companies have borrowed a lot of money in the last period of their lives. Of course, that's quite an opportunity for business to start exporting again, but they've built up a lot of debt on their account. The question is whether the Minister will undertake not to include these debts in the assessment of possible export plans with the support of the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u145	It is right to point out the debt situation of Dutch companies. Moreover, it is estimated that the vast majority of companies will either have no corona debt or will be able to repay the borrowed funds or pay the outstanding accounts with the deferred tax deadlines. The Secretary of State for Finance has also said that we are going to look specifically at that very small pick of a few percent that may get into trouble. I am a little less concerned about that, even if you look at how big the debt mountain is and how it relates to the budget here. Those are incomparable quantities. I think that Invest International will certainly take into account market developments and what role covid has played. What is just a step too far, and I hope that the speaker can agree with me, is to create some sort of additional condition now, which is then far too generic. I think you should leave it to an institution like Invest-NL to look at the specific case. There one can weigh much better, at least than me here on the microphone, whether or not a particular company is adequate and how solid it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u146	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u147	I understand that, but I hear you're overseeing the financial management and policy of that new organization. Then I would like to tell you that at least this should not be a problem, so that companies are also able to invest anti-cyclically. At the moment, they have no money to invest in exports. We must do everything in our power to do so, and we believe that this is an enormous opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u148	I very much agree with that positive attitude. I have no objection to giving that point of attention. I am only a little more optimistic about what was said in an intermediate sense, namely that companies have no opportunity at all to invest internationally now. If you look at the state of the crop in Dutch business, if you look at it in an international perspective and compare it with the countries around us, then the Netherlands is better off than expected, both nationally and internationally. Mr. Chairman. Just a few things left. Mrs Huizinga asked about the KPIs and what consequences the failure to obtain these KPIs could have in the dialogue with the shareholder. That's a fair point. The Ministry of Finance always sees to that. Of course, you're trying to make a broader basket of appointments. Those KPIs are also always included in the strategies and are then submitted to the shareholders. That goes, of course, in close dialogue between the politically responsible executive and the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Faber asked about the change and dissolution of subsidiaries and about the grip of the parliament on them. If there is a planned decision on sale by the State, Parliament will always be informed about this. This is done on the basis of the decision-making framework of the Kuiper Committee. If the State acquires shares of FMO, this will be submitted to Parliament. It's just a front-view procedure. But just for the record, we want FMO as a joint shareholder. We're not going to transfer or take over shares. I'm just saying that to reassure you. Mr President, I'm almost done. Mrs Faber asked a little bit of a follow-up as to whether the financial transaction was a trick to put Parliament at a distance. No, that's out of the question. This is the normal system of State participations. They always find their way to reality through the Second and First Chambers. That is the normal course of action. As a financial transaction, this capital injection is then outside the expenditure ceiling. In this way, as always and as it should be, the Chamber is fully co-legislator and can therefore fully exercise its budgetary rights. Next, we have chosen to give more room for state participation in the day-to-day business of investment decisions and thus to put them at some distance. That financial transaction doesn't change the role of parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u149	Are you at the end of your reply, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u150	I'm a long way away, but I still have a few things to say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u151	Go ahead, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u152	It concerns the transfer of the shares. I asked in my speech... It can be read that the shares A can only be transferred to a person who is a party to the shareholders agreement. In the shareholders agreement, I see only the State and FMO. Or are there underlying shareholders in FMO that you don't know but who are also a party to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u153	It's two different things. I have just referred to the shareholders of FMO in reply to Mr Otten's question. The State is a majority shareholder in this, but there is also a group of other shareholders. I don't know the numbers, but my estimate is that a very small group of individuals is a shareholder. That's different from the discussion we're having right now, because it's about the shareholders in Invest International. I have just explained how you could change that, but one of the cores of this debate is that we want the State and FMO to be shareholders in Invest International. We do not feel any challenge to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u154	That's a very nice and comprehensive answer, but that's not what I asked. I'm talking about transferring shares A. Let's talk about that for a minute, because those are the most important ones. They may be transferred to a person or an organisation that is a party to the shareholders' agreement. I think we only have two shareholders right now: FMO and the State. Then who's the third? Or can the third party be a shareholder who is, for example, in FMO and is indirectly underneath it? Because that's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u155	I think I really need to refer to my previous answer. We have the State of the Netherlands and FMO. I have no idea what is changing in the underlying shareholders' relationships of FMO, as I have just indicated. Mrs Faber encouraged me to keep the answers short and I will stick to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u156	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u157	I'll do it a little differently. Who can take over the shares A? Is that just the State and FMO or are there other parties at the table? I've asked the question a little simple now. Then it might be easier to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u158	I think I just answered. I will come back to this in the second term, but I do not think that anything will change the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u159	I'll come back to the shareholders. I deliberately make this an important point, because this is about conflicts of interest. We have seen in the procurement of masks, in the minister's party, what all that can give for trammer. 7% of FMO's shares are owned by private individuals, I understand. Who are they? We have to know that, don't we? If we're gonna put 833 million taxpayers' money in something, then we need to know who we're gonna go with. Isn't that obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u160	But you're repeating your question. I don't know if the Minister has another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u161	How does the Minister intend to manage these conflicts of interest? 'Cause that's kind of... The big banks have thousands of people doing all kinds of compliance business. You know for yourself that politicians are also under scrutiny. That's very good. This is a black box, because we don't know who we're doing business with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u162	Thank you, Mr. Otten. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u163	Then how are you going to manage these conflicts of interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u164	I'd really like to turn this mosquito into an elephant, but I don't quite see how. I have to refer Mr Otten to my previous reply. There are agreements in the Civil Code about what you have to dissolve in the area of shareholders. The State of the Netherlands is a major shareholder in FMO and is determined to remain so. In addition, there are other shareholders. That choice was made very consciously at the time. Those include banks and a small pick of private individuals. That fact in itself is no reason for the cabinet to say in this debate: that means that FMO should not be a shareholder in Invest International.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u165	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u166	Suppose one of those private individuals comes up with a project that's being invested by Invest International. Isn't there a hard conflict of interest? Then we need to know what's going on. There's got to be transparency, right? I have just said that all kinds of posts, such as politicians and so on, have very high transparency obligations. That's what we're all for. We are in favour of transparency. You can't manage conflicts or interest if you don't have transparency. Surely a solution has to be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u167	I don't see the equation. I do not see the comparison with the PEPs and with what they have to do and what they have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u168	Minister, I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u169	Mrs Faber asked about the division of roles between the RV and the RVB. How can you prevent "we know us"? I hope that the members of a supervisory board and a board of directors know each other. This is usually helpful for mutual cooperation. Directors and supervisory directors are appointed by the shareholder. In the Civil Code there we are again the division of roles between the RVC and the RVB. A member of the Board can in no way simply switch to the SVC to approve its own policies. I see, on the contrary, that state participations are extremely prudent in their approach to governance. It is my firm belief that this will also be the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u170	I'm going to let the Minister speak first, Mrs Faber. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u171	That's nice, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mrs Prast that I very much support her plea for diversity and gender distribution. State participations also have an exemplary role in this. With the current CEO and CFRO the ratios in the RP 50/50. The intended chairman of the SVC is also a woman. Mr President, I think that is a long way to go. I have a few things left, but I think they were all done by my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u172	That brings you to the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u173	That's what I thought, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u174	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u175	The Minister indicated that members of the Board of Directors and members of the Supervisory Board could not move over, but the General Court felt quite differently. The ARK considers it undesirable for directors to switch directly to the Supervisory Board and vice versa. The General Court recommends that this should be excluded from the Statute, but this recommendation has not been followed. It can't be that you're on the board first, then you switch to the supervisory board, which has a supervisory role, and then you're going to supervise your own strategy? What do you mean, Chinese walls? At least not in this area. So this is where it's already limp in practice. So here it can already be limp in practice, I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u176	Thank you for that last nuance. It is important to outline here and repeat what I have just said. You have a board at a company. That board is just responsible for the day-to-day business. There are also people who oversee that administration. They are on the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board. In the case of State participations, there are often several shareholders. The Minister of Finance is seen as the shareholder and thus has a dialogue with that State participation on behalf of politics. The moment you're a member of the board of directors, it's not like you can never be a commissioner or vice versa. I don't know why you should rule that out for now and for all eternity. Often they are people with deep expertise in a branch of sport. But there is no question of this being done, I really want to stress that as a member of the board of directors, after doing so for a while, you can temporarily adopt your own policy as a member of the supervisory board and then come back. Then I would like to understand from Mrs Faber what state participations she has seen over the last ten years that people have regularly changed those roles and switched back. There must have been an example of someone who changed roles once and maybe there are two examples of this kind, but it is in no way the daily practice. It's very rare or never.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u177	I'm just gonna leave those state stakes over the last ten years for the sake of time. We're talking about Invest International right now. The statutes make it possible for you to exchange. Again the question: isn't it very unusual that this can be done? In fact, the statutes allow it. Why is that allowed? Why is this not simply covered in the statutes, so that this undesirable situation cannot be avoided?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u178	Finally, the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u179	Because in the vast majority of companies in the Netherlands it is perfectly normal that you do not exclude such things for now and for all eternity. They are two very different parts of a company with a completely different role. There are careful procedures for how people can be appointed to a board of directors and to a supervisory board. As far as I am concerned, the added value of excluding it forever is very limited. That's where I think we're really looking for something that just doesn't have any added value in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u180	I shall now give the floor to Mr... Mrs Faber, you asked more than 20 questions in two hours of interruption this morning. If all Members were to do so, we'd be at it until tomorrow morning. I now refer you to your second term. You can ask all the questions again and then the government can answer them again. You can also interrupt again. Mr. Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u181	I have an open first-term question. The Top Income Standards Act is not applicable to Invest International. I asked why. In order to prevent this from becoming a safe haven for all kinds of politicians, we have called this into question. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u182	I'd like to do that. I will leave the classification of safe harbour on Mr Beuker's behalf, because I do not think it is so happy. It has been practice for many years that, as public money is involved, reasonable salaries are carefully considered in the case of state participations. But it has also been practice for years that state participations are not brought under the WNT, because it is quite different whether you are a minister or a top official and are therefore completely part of, let me say, the Hague hierarchy and everything that falls directly under the responsibility and responsibility of the Second and First Chambers, or that you work in a state participation. This is not a normal business, but it is more remote and therefore the salaries of state participations are regularly slightly higher than those of ministers or senior officials. By the way, in practice they are significantly lower than in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u183	Thank you. Then we arrive at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u184	Mr. President, may I have two minutes' suspension? 'Cause I'm gonna have to change a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u185	That's fine. Then we'll suspend until 11:25.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u186	I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst. I would like to draw the attention of the spokesmen who are also chairman of the political groups. The debate may continue during the CoS. The request is whether you can ask someone else in your group to have you replaced with the CoS. This also applies to Mr Otten, if possible. Mrs Faber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got to improvise a little bit, so it might seem a little messier than in the first term. That's not a setup. Firstly, I would like to thank the ministers for their reply. I'm not always happy with the answers, but let's put that aside. Regarding the abuses of FMO. I had asked the Minister if this would affect FMO. The Minister goes around it a little bit and says: it is a bit difficult to influence it. But the minister does have influence through shareholdership. Indeed, the explanatory statement states that the strategy and investment policy will be the subject of dialogue with the Commissioners and the Board of Invest International. In doing so, the supervisory and administrative boards can take due account of the wishes of the shareholders. Then the circle is complete again. The Minister for Foreign Trade also has the opportunity to highlight the investment domain and the geographical focus. I have not really heard anything concrete about the consequences for FMO if they do not comply with the SDGs and corporate social responsibility. A very spicy detail is next. For example, the government site says: "Would you like to invest abroad or trade abroad? In that case, it is the intention that you adhere to corporate social responsibility." If we, as a government, are to act in addition to FMO, of which abuses are known, then we must do what we ask of companies ourselves. Again my question: what consequences does it have if FMO does not comply with the SDGs? Then about the shareholders. I think it is very special that the Finance Minister does not know who the shareholders are. What is even more remarkable is that FMO has in fact been given a right of veto for important decisions. 75% of shareholders must agree to make a particular decision. But the minister doesn't even know who the shareholders are. I think that's a little weird. I am not saying that the Minister is telling the truth; let me put it nicely. But I do find it very special, to be honest. How can he give a right of veto to people or organizations he doesn't know? Perhaps the Minister would like to respond to this again. Then I'll get to the stock A. These can only be transferred to persons who are parties to the shareholders' agreement. But, yes, the minister doesn't know who those shareholders are. Those are really weird constructions. It doesn't seem so hard to me at all. I can't imagine the Minister doesn't know that. I mean, the Minister of Finance is an intelligent man, not the first. I can't imagine him just stepping into such a dark hole. I can't do that. But maybe he can explain that to me again. Then there is the supervisory board and the board of directors. The Minister has no problems with exchange. He says: in practice it will not just happen. But in theory it can and yet practice learns that if things can be in theory, it will come up sometime today or tomorrow and it will happen sometime. I don't mean to say that you have to rule someone out forever, but we could set some sort of cooling-off period in the statutes. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan and Mr Ton van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to Invest International's statutes, a member of the Board of Directors may transfer directly to the Supervisory Board and vice versa;]] [[considers that this is an unusual construction that could lead to undesirable situations;]] [[calls on the Government to amend its statutes in such a way as to make it impossible to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35529-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked another question about the interests of drivers. It is stated in the statutes that, if they have a direct, indirect, personal or business interest, persons may not participate in certain meetings. In my view, it should simply be the case that a person should not be allowed to participate if there is a conflict of interest in any form. Since the Minister did not reply, I shall table the next motion. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan and Mr Ton van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under the statutes of Invest International, both a board member and a commissioner are not allowed to participate in deliberations and decision-making within his/her gremium if he/she directly or indirectly has a personal conflict of interest with the company;]] [[considers that both a board member and a commissioner should only participate in deliberations and decision-making within his/her body if there is a conflict of interest with the company;]] [[calls on the Government to amend Article 16 (3) and Article 25 (9) "a personal conflict of interest" to "a conflict of interest in any form,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35529-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u189	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u190	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Then I give the floor to Mr Knapen, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u191	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking both ministers very much for their efforts, in some cases special efforts. We are witnessing a bit of a curious debate here this morning, where all kinds of topics are reviewed that one-two-three and also four-five-six would not be considered. So it was also educational, for which much thanks. I thought it was kind of intriguing, too. Intriguing, because this is a relatively small, relatively insignificant bill in the light of all the things we are discussing here. Intriguingly, too, because then you see that one gets extremely nervous when he hears the word "grant" and thinks: oh dear, that's throwing away money from the taxpayer. The other gets very nervous when he hears the words "earning money" and thinks: oh dear, the big capital; that can never be good. The complicated thing about this subject is that they're actually trying to combine these two things a little bit, because that's how it works when you try to make the private sector play a role in broader developments. You're getting a good look at that, too. To be honest, I had to think a little bit about a young guy I met once and who was doing something biologically about water treatment. In the meantime, he had a nice little business with a man of 15, 20. He's already had a few assignments. If he wanted to get an assignment in Bamako, he wouldn't have a chance to find a bank willing to finance this, because what does an ING bank in Delft know about Bamako? Then what you do is this. You go there, you see if you can build something with a local company to see if you can get Bamako's better neighborhoods to pay a little bit for water from now on. As soon as they start paying, you have a chance to generate income, that that investment will eventually return and that you can successfully connect more neighborhoods. To begin with, you may need a feasibility study from Development Cooperation and thus OS money, just a grant: money that you, as some would say, have lost. Maybe once you start, you also need some kind of grace period, in which you don't have to pay interest right away, also grant. But you're hoping successfully, and I can give you examples where this worked out. That there's a company that you're working with that eventually produces, cleans, sells, and makes sure they have drinking water there. You're thinking, "That's never gonna work." I can give you an example in Phnom Penh. That's where it was done 20 years ago. Phnom Penh was one of the poorest places in the world then, but there you could just drink water from the tap at any place. This was caused by initiators from France and by some French public money. In the meantime, it's just a company that is self-sufficient and profitable, and which these French investors have also gained a lot of knowledge and customers. So it can sometimes happen that capital, subsidies, investment and a little daring go hand in hand. It takes some getting used to, because sometimes it's two worlds. Anyway, we're here, I hope, to get used to those things together. I hope we can finish this in a good way. Once again, I would like to thank the rulers very much for their input and their answers. I look forward to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u192	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I call Mrs Prast, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u193	Mr. Chairman. I have not heard an answer to many of my questions. I want to be very brief, because I really want to prevent us from being able to see the semi-finals between Italy and I-don't-who tonight. So I ask the Ministers to answer the questions I have asked about generation-conscious policies. I have also asked if the broad welfare balance can become a scavenger by Invest International. A question about tax havens has not yet been answered in my view. I asked the Minister of Finance for a reason for ABN AMRO to withdraw as a business bank from abroad. According to ABN AMRO, even State participation, one reason is that the activities there account for the majority of the bank's losses. I would like that question to be answered. I assume that my questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in which I referred to Invest-NL, will be reflected in the debate with the Minister for Finance on the evaluation of Invest-NL. Then the Minister for BHO would have made a commitment to my question about a job vacancy. I have already asked that question, so I will not repeat it again here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I shall now give the floor to Mr Beuker, who will speak on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both ministers for the answers. There was something that intrigued me. I heard Minister Kaag say Invest International is going to finance both ODA and non-ODA projects. I would like a little more clarification on the non-ODA part, because that intrigues me. I'd like an example. My group regrets that it is still not excluded that biomass projects are financed by Invest International. Then there's another point. We have indicated that my group would like the islands of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten to qualify for both Invest-NL and Invest International. So I'd like to comment on that. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. The: Mr Beuker, Mr Nanninga and Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Top Income Standards Act (WNT) has not been applied to the remuneration of directors and other persons working for Invest International;]] [[Whereas:]] [[persons employed at or for Invest International are not at risk of entrepreneurial activity;]] [[remuneration is linked to tasks, responsibilities and powers;]] [[it is undesirable for persons employed at or for Invest International to be rewarded by (very high) standards of the private sector but not subject to market rules;]] [[Invites the Government, if the Invest International Act is approved, to apply the Top Income Standards Act (WNT) to Invest International,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35529-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u197	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mr and Mrs Minister for answering the questions, although some answers have been moved to the second term. So I am still very curious about the final answer to the questions. The Minister states that the reason for the creation of Invest International lies in improving the competitiveness of Dutch business. That is a very nice objective and of course the VVD fully agrees with that. The second objective, the resolution of international issues, is, of course, also to be found in the VVD's objective. The third reason was that the commercial banks withdrew. That will be the case, but I would say: keep the commercial banks on board through FMO's shareholdership, because then they would be better able to serve their client base by saying: we still have a company that we are a shareholder of, so they could help you in this case, and we can also participate in part of the loan or part of the risk. A fourth issue is, of course, always a bit strange: yes, but other countries also have such an institution, and that is why we must have one. Yeah, but those other banks, like Kfw, are real banks and not funds. Moreover, they have a 70- or 80-year experience and a huge network of offices in third countries. This fund does not have that, so all the more reason for another construction to be reviewed once again. I was triggered by the fact that the Minister said in his reply: there is a substantial pipeline of potential projects. Could the Minister provide more insight into this substantial pipeline, so that we have an idea that there is more meat on the bone than in Invest-NL, so to speak? Because that would, of course, remove an important point of discussion, if it is really a massive pipeline that is now about to be realized. When Invest International was founded, that is, of course, an additional argument to say: I take that into account in our final consideration. But Mr Otten has another question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u199	I saw it. I'll wait until you're finished. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u200	I hear Mr Van Ballekom saying that he has great doubts about the effectiveness of the chosen form of Invest International. We share this concern too, so my question to Mr Van Ballekom is: what are you going to do about turning it into a more effective structure? 'Cause I don't think this is gonna work, as you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u201	Madam Minister has indicated that she will return to this in her second term, so I await those answers with great interest. Mrs Kaag also had a reflection on China, that the investments we make with Invest International must, of course, comply with all national and international rules. Okay, that goes without saying. Mr Reynders is going to tighten up all these rules. That is also good, but the question is whether the African Heads of Government are taking any interest in this and whether the Chinese authorities are guided by it. China isn't even a member of the OECD, so that's a sign on the wall that you can't make it. That is my idea, also put forward in the first term. We in the Netherlands can only manage on quality, quality of projects. Quality always finds funding, always. There is generally no lack of money, but of good projects. A third point, Mr President. FMO has a completely different mandate. Everyone is aware of that, but the idea was to adapt FMO's mandate somewhat, which still seems easier to do, but the Minister can reflect on it once more............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because the idea was: if you change that mandate a little bit, which seems quite simple to me, also given the majority shareholdership of the State and FMO, then you can also use the expertise of FMO. This can be done jointly by the central services, such as compliance, IT, risk analysis and personnel services. Then you have a less large overhead for a fund of 833 million euros. I believe that this could be done through the construction of a subsidiary. But in order to gain a better understanding of the government's reasoning and to strengthen the image of my group, can the Minister give access to the cooperation agreements to be concluded? Because it should be possible to regulate all of this, which in itself gives us an insight into what that overhead entails in terms of additional administration and what additional costs this overhead entails. You have to weigh that against the final result.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u202	Your speaking time has been up for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u203	Yeah, I didn't make much use of the interventions either, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u204	For the sake of clarity, however, it is not the case that we cut the interrupting times off with speaking time. You requested five minutes. You've been over that for minutes now, so maybe you'd like to finish. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u205	But Mrs. Prast had requested 20 minutes, so she might let me borrow a minute. Voilà. In my group's view, the onestop shop approach is also useful when the regulations remain at RVO, while it is also purer. Purifier, because no one is tempted to react differently and to act differently in relation to those arrangements. Parliamentary control is therefore not put at a distance. Of course, there are Chinese walls, and there's Mr. Hoekstra...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u206	Mr. Van Ballekom, would you wrap up, please? Your speaking time has now been exceeded by 50%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u207	I have one more comment, Mr President. Of course, the Chinese walls also exist in the commercial sector, but that commercial sector does not deal with public money and that is, of course, something else. Finally, I await with interest the Minister's reflection on the ratio of the 833 million and the 1.5 billion. Because you can't figure that out from feasibility studies and the grace period, like Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u208	Thank you, Mr Crone, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the leaders for their answers, which, moreover, did not give me sufficient clarity in every respect either. To begin with, also in response to Mr Van Ballekom, I very much agree with Minister Kaag. We are not going to water down the FMO targets. So whatever construction he suggested before I also opposed it in the first period of time. But with that I stand up for our core issue and that of GroenLinks. It is not for nothing that we in the House of Representatives have accepted amendments that the SDG objectives are at the forefront. That's added. Then I find the answer too easy for both rulers, but for Mrs Kaag in particular, who answered that most: we do no harm, there is a balance, there are no contradictions. But of course there can be real contradictions, both between objectives and: do we support a Dutch company or do we support a local company that wants the good? Then I find the answer 'we find a good balance in that' a little too vague, because it is just how it works out. If both meet the SDG objectives, I would rather have the wording that one of them is doing the best, with a slightly better result for poverty or for the environment or for employment. It must win, even if it is not the Dutch company. This tension can arise; that is very logical, between FMO-oriented companies and the other, the Dutch companies. Internationally, you would say: we are doing the ash approximation, but I have learned that you have been sent with a brat in the reed. So I would like to hear that the cabinet gives some sort of guarantee here: 'no, we choose that investment that contributes most to those social objectives'. I can ask for a prior commitment on this issue, but I would also ask if there will be an evaluation, in which we can see how that has gone. The Minister himself said: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. It is a balance of interest and it is also different organisations. Of course, FMO is going for its own goals and Invest International is going for its own goals, but if they collide, then who decides? That's still a question. And I repeat, the content is paramount. Whoever best meets the SDGs must win. Two, the construction. You said it doesn't deserve a beauty prize. That is what Mr Hoekstra said. It's too late for a beauty contest now, so we're going for it the way it is now. There's no point in breaking that open right now, because it's been way too long. We are going for it, but arguments like Chinese walls... It is indeed teeming with English terms in this debate. Chinese walls: do they work or don't they work? Mr Hoekstra has said something about this. At the same time, there is a lot of cooperation to be done. That's right. Because, of course, if you are in one country, you need the common desk for legal and political conditions. Is there fraud or not? Is there corruption? So they're Chinese walls, but there's a lot of cooperation to be done. It looks like Europe's policy towards China: a lot of cooperation, but also Chinese walls. We must also give confidence in the future. I'd like to hear this. If there are shared services, is it going to be the way we agree and want it to be? On both points, I hope that we will have a very quick first evaluation, and not just after five years. That's a question. I had already asked for the KPIs in my term. Mr Hoekstra said something about this. They've been going on for a while, so I guess they've got a start on KPIs after all. I had asked whether we could have an insight into this, or whether it could be sent to us. All that doesn't have to be done in the second term, but I'd like to see them. Finally. I find the questions of governance in these motions quite interesting. I mean that sincerely. This suggests that there is a point in this, but we are not going to have a governance discussion on general shareholdership and governance in general, for one NSA? Shouldn't that be in a broader perspective? However, Mr Frentrop is not here and he knows all about it. I tend not to want that now, but perhaps it can be explained in writing. What is the situation with regard to general governance policy? The motion will be put to the vote next week, but I would suggest that we hold it for a while. There is a point, I feel, but if it becomes a kind of legislative motion on a general governance policy, then I do not feel like it. That is half a substantive and half a procedural answer. Mr. Chairman. I'd say let's start with Invest International. Hopefully, a quick evaluation will make it possible to see whether all the mistakes that we see here and things that we say could have been otherwise would have been okay, or whether we need to fix a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u210	Thank you, Mr Crone. I now give the floor to Mrs Moonen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u211	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both ministers for answering all the questions put by the D66 Group. I will also use this second deadline for the contribution of the OSF, which could not participate in the first term. Allow me to briefly outline this contribution as well. First of all, the reaction of D66. There has been a great deal of attention this morning to Invest International's double objective. In fact, our group sees it as follows. Invest International will develop and finance projects in which opportunities for Dutch business and societal significance come together. The commercial thinking and action of Dutch companies is therefore always focused on contributing to Sustainable Development Goals, in which the minister today indicated which SDGs have the focus. So if companies do not contribute to this, there is no funding in our view. Invest International's assessment will always be whether the business case is financially viable, businesslike, and also whether there is a positive contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals. That is, in our view, a very clear objective. In fact, I liked Mr Knapen's example of water treatment in Bamako, because that example illustrates that dual objective. It is personally taken from my heart, because I know Bamako well and also that project. That is exactly what happens: that you and you cooperate in this case with the SDG Clean water, while at the same time generating business for an SME. That is actually the rule in practice. The D66 Group also attaches great importance to Invest International's efforts to reach out to those SMEs. A lot has been said about this this morning, and we strongly support the fact that these SMEs are being achieved and that this leads to concrete results. D66 is therefore grateful to the Minister for making a commitment to take a concrete look at how these SMEs have been achieved in the Invest International evaluation. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to take advantage of the second deadline to make a brief contribution from the OSF. The OSF stresses the importance of having a very accessible regime for business, because exporting is not always easy, especially for SMEs. Businesses face the necessary problems and the OSF therefore considers it very important to ensure a system that is easily accessible, so that those SMEs are also reached. So much for your input, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u212	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Ministers for their reply. It was extensive, but there were still some points. Firstly, there has been talk of the relationship between SMEs and multinationals or the large business when it comes to financing projects. We in the SP Group have not been able to clarify this. We are even wondering whether it is necessary to give multinational companies an extra boost when it comes to their international expansion. However, apart from that, the Minister says that it should not go disproportionately to multinationals. My question then is what is "disproportionate." Can the Minister put that into practice? Is that an affair of fifty-fifty? Or should at least 70% go to SMEs? And what is the Minister going to do about it if it turns out to be disproportionate? Can the Minister make a concrete commitment in this respect? Under the current structure of Invest International, I think it should be possible for the Minister to confirm that a multinational such as Shell is applying for funding for an international project. That seems unnecessary and undesirable to my group. Then again the point of the relationship between the two objectives. In fact, the current legislative proposal has two faces, which are represented by two colleagues: on the one hand, Mr Knapen and on the other hand, Mr Crone. I found it striking that Mr Knapen said in his first term: it is good that attention has been paid to ensuring corporate social responsibility, but fortunately it has not become too rigid, because ultimately it is mainly about giving a push in the back of Dutch entrepreneurs abroad. When I listen to Mr Crone, in the first and in the second term, we are actually talking about corporate social responsibility, sustainable development, sustainable development Goals and solving global issues. I wonder if that can always go together. Mr Crone himself asked whether the Minister could guarantee that this would go hand in hand. I'm curious to hear the answer. The cabinet wants to serve both, and we remain sceptical about that. Solving international issues through Dutch business, Dutch business as an agent, and-and. As if Dutch business was a club of world improvers. The Minister says it is about balance and there will be balance. But by saying that there will be a balance, it is not yet guaranteed that this balance will come out in practice. Again the question: what if in practice most applications that are made and accepted are applications that are mainly aimed at improving the earnability and international competitiveness of Dutch industry? That remains our concern, as well as we continue to regret the fact that investments in fossil fuels are not simply excluded. Shell, for example, could also apply for some international project, if it is covered by one of the exceptions. So we're going to reserve 833 million tax dollars to support the foreign activities of Dutch companies, including large companies. We, as Parliament, then have very little control over this. For all these reasons, my group remains very sceptical about this bill. I would like to add one more point, which I made earlier in my own term. I wholeheartedly support the point made by Mr Beuker on this point: we very much regret that the beaming standard does not apply here. The Minister says that this standard does not apply to state-owned enterprises. According to him, it is a big difference from, for example, top officials and ministers, who are very tight in the Hague hierarchy. My second question to the Minister would be: are people who work in public broadcasting also very tightly in the Hague hierarchy? I don't think so, but that's also covered by Top Income Standards Act. This exception, therefore, cannot be justified in my group. We are talking here about a state-owned company which will be more than 75% State-owned. This is not yet in line with the spirit of the WNT. For all these reasons, I will advise my group to vote against this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u214	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Ministers for the rapid answers, with a great deal of information. Nevertheless, I do miss an answer to two questions that I have asked, which are actually related to the second deadline. These are the two faces of Invest International: a little support for Dutch business and a contribution to the SDGs. In that context, I asked a question about the KPIs, in Dutch. That reminds me of the two ways in which the word penalty/penalty can be pronounced. On the KPIs, I asked how the Minister ensures that they are sufficiently challenging. Because that is the way to measure whether those SDGs are indeed being met and supported. A second question I asked is the following. If it turns out that these challengingly formulated KPIs are not being achieved, what can be the result of that? Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions that are important for my group to clarify, so that we also know that these two objectives of the law can indeed be brought together. But that does not affect us I would almost say enthusiasm for this law. I will certainly propose to my group that we vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u216	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems as if the debates in this Chamber are getting shorter and shorter as you spend more money. The debate on the National Growth Fund lasted even an hour. That was only about 20 billion. Mr. Chairman. Our group has heard with increasing amazement the response of ministers Kaag and Hoekstra to Invest International and the 833 million tax dollars that we intend to pay into it. If we can believe the cabinet statement, Invest International is the hairminder oil for the international financial world. This panacea will solve all kinds of market failures on the capital market, if we can believe the cabinet. The lack and persistence of financing difficulties for SMEs are being addressed. All kinds of bottlenecks and high transaction costs in difficult countries, in difficult projects, disappear like snow for the sun through the creation of Invest International. And all for only 833 million, eight times Sywert van Lienden's mouth cap deal. Actually, it's a bargain, if we can believe the cabinet. The Dutch public funds climate is beginning to look like a sort of Urk, where some thirty different churches exist side by side, I believe. Everyone has their own investment club to distribute tax money to friends and party mates. Invest International, Invest-NL by Wouter Bos, the National Growth Fund of 20 billion and last week the province of North Holland also established a regional development company with 160 million capital. Playing with taxpayers' money: the new fad in the Netherlands. As far as our group is concerned, it is running out of steam and there is now total proliferation. The cabinet has very consciously chosen to shape Invest International in a joint venture with FMO. 51% for the State and 49% for FMO. It's a wonderful choice. Building up an own organization next to FMO only increases the fragmentation in the market, as the spokesperson of the VVD just pointed out. We first asked who the shareholders of FMO are, because of the transparency needed to combat conflicts or interest. The Minister indicated that there are also private persons shareholders at FMO. I understand it's about 7% of the shares in FMO, and that's not nothing. It is unacceptable for our group that 833 million taxpayers' money is invested in a joint venture with FMO, when we do not even know who those shareholders are, especially since FMO suffered 280 million losses in the first half of the year, the first loss in the 30th anniversary of FMO. Our question is therefore whether the interest in the FMO has been downgraded in the state participation. Mr President, I will conclude. I have two brief motions. The: Mr Otten, Mr De Vries and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet intends to spend EUR 833 million on Invest International;]] [[noting that this is done in cooperation with FMO where FMO will hold 49% of the shares Invest International and the State 51% of the shares Invest International;]] [[Whereas, in order to prevent conflicts or interest in Invest International's investment policy, it is essential that there is adequate transparency and that there is transparency about the shareholders of investment partner FMO;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the First Chamber with a short-term overview of all shareholders of FMO with their respective current equity interests in FMO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35529-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u218	Mr. Chairman. As has been said, we consider the chance of success of Invest International to be a matter of urgency, especially in the current chosen structure. If the risks do not outweigh the investments in the future, the emergency brake should be possible. That is why we also have a second motion, which I am now reading. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet intends to spend EUR 833 million on Invest International;]] [[noting that this entails significant and significant risks for the Dutch taxpayer, both now and in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt or supplement the Invest International plans in such a way that an appropriate emergency braking procedure is added to Invest International's governance so that effective action can be taken if the risks no longer outweigh the investments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35529-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u219	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I've previously failed to file the motions I had prepared. It's my maiden emotions, so that's why. The first: The: Mr Prast, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Crone and Mr Van Apeldoorn proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas cobalt is mined in Congo under appalling conditions and using child labour;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Invest International only supports projects and activities which are clearly established that they will not use cobalt mined in Congo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35529-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u221	Thank you. The: Mr Prast, Mr Raven and Mr Van Apeldoorn tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Invest International should contribute to the earning capacity of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas earning capacity is a matter of broad prosperity;]] [[Considering that the broad prosperity is made up of different components and that the Netherlands is poorly scored on the environmental and raw materials component;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that Invest International does not support projects and activities that adversely affect this prosperity balance;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that this is reviewed annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35529-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u222	Could I ask one more question that I forgot in my second term? That was a question on the basis of the first deadline and I did not have an answer to that. That question is about tax havens. In my first term, I made a speech about tax havens and then I asked the question: is the removal of corporate profits subject to corporate social responsibility and what is the SDG content?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u223	Ministers, do you have the opportunity to respond directly or do you want a short suspension? Both ministers want a five-minute suspension. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 12.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the debate will continue at the College of Seniors and that those of us who are to be present at the College of Seniors will have to arrange replacements for that. You'll have time for that. It was reported earlier this morning, but I'll remind you. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u225	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to answer the questions and comments in the second term in accordance with the three blocks that I had taken on my behalf in the first term of office. Mrs Faber once again asked for a comparison with Germany. She said that there is a same institution, I would have said: any institution competing with the market; it is not additional. Again, a number of EU countries indeed have a public export agency, such as Germany, France, Sweden and Finland. Each country opts for its own, sometimes slightly different set-up. In Germany KfW IPEX and KfW DEG play that role. Indeed, KfW IPEX is not additional to the market, and I think that is the institution that Mrs Faber referred to. We have deliberately chosen to allow Invest International to operate on the market, because of the impact we are looking for and because of the link with the SDGs. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked: what is the relationship between projects that contribute to the SDGs and those that are mainly for the benefit of the Dutch economy? I try to say the same in several ways; Mr Van Apeldoorn may not quite convince me. It's not either-or; it's and-and. Invest International is developing a comprehensive review framework to enable a specific assessment of this contribution to the SDGs. The organization will report on this. Of course, Dutch companies must also be well positioned to contribute to the SDGs and earn from them. It is not a matter of proportions or percentages; it is not a daily measurement. An example: a Dutch vegetable grower who wants to build a greenhouse in an African country provides jobs, food security and the Dutch earning capacity with that project. We will finally see the balance sheet in the elaboration of the review framework, but also in the choices that have been made. The SDGs are leading the entire cabinet policy, including foreign trade and development cooperation, alongside international corporate social responsibility, the OECD guidelines, the UN Guiding Principles, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u226	I honestly don't understand. The Minister says the SDGs are leading. I'll take that from the Minister; that's good. What it means in practice, we must also wait and see. Mr Crone was right to have some questions about that. But the bill makes it very clear that Invest International is being set up to serve two objectives: on the one hand, to finance projects aimed at improving the competitiveness of Dutch business and earning capacity, and on the other hand, to "including" it says "and" on the other hand, to finance international projects that contribute to solving global issues. These are two different types of projects. The Minister seems to say that any project that will be financed will contribute to both objectives. But I do not think that can be the case. Then why doesn't the legal text say: Invest International is in favour of funding projects that always contribute to earning and competitiveness and to solving global issues? It doesn't say that. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u227	You contribute to solving global issues within the framework of the SDGs and this also benefits the Dutch entrepreneur, provided that he takes social responsibility and adheres to the guidelines. This is also the case in the sectors where choices are made. It's in effect and-and. I can't put it any more in another way, but this is definitely possible. It's been happening for a long time. Many companies do this, but not all. That is why, as a cabinet, we are looking at legislation at European level to legalise corporate social responsibility along the lines of the Paris climate agreement and the SDGs, so that those who do not comply can also be legally accountable. I see no contradiction or exclusion in the way it is formulated. Let's face it, Invest International hasn't even started yet. I value your keenness and your desire to ensure that everything is well arranged on the front, but the reality will show that there are very specific objectives. Perhaps I can take a further question from Mr Van Apeldoorn, who is connected with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u228	Mr. Van Apeldoorn would like to ask a follow-up question. I'd like to give him that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u229	I note that what the Minister is now saying about and-and, therefore, the idea that any project that will be financed and will contribute to earning and competitiveness and to a solution to global issues, if not formulated in the legislative proposal, or in the explanatory memorandum. So I can see clearly between what the Minister is saying now and the bill as it has been presented. Because as the bill is now presented...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u230	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u231	... is about financing one type of project or another. Then my question, again, is: what ratio does the Minister expect between these two approximately? I can't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u232	No, because it's very difficult. For Mr Van Apeldoorn there is a theoretical collision. It is not there for me, because we have the SDGs and the Climate Agreement. And we want to strengthen Dutch competitiveness for certain companies, such as start-ups, scale-ups, SMEs. They are going to work in markets where there is or there is no capital, or where there is not enough risk cover. But in all those countries where work is being done, it is precisely about solving the SDG agenda. So I can see a theoretical problem in it, but I know this is already work in progress. I know this from the broad, proactive agenda of Trade and Development Cooperation of this cabinet. And Invest International is now a consequence of that to support a branch that also belongs to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u233	Does this answer from the Minister now mean that she is renouncing what the CBS writes in the Broad Prosperity Monitor, namely that the environmental and raw materials component of broad prosperity benefits from less trade? This, while Invest International should increase exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u234	I need to read the broader study again. I shall return to Mrs Prast's specific question in a moment. But for a lot of products in which the Netherlands operates, of course, it is also about services, knowledge, exchange. Not everything is a polluting product or something that has been produced in a polluting way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u235	I had asked this question in my first term, so I am a little surprised that the Minister is now saying: I have to go back to studying this Monitor Brede Prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u236	I might have meant it too diplomatically. I didn't read the whole piece again. I shall return to your question in a moment's time. As far as I am concerned, these are two different issues. Mr Otten asked which part of the 833 million will be made available to SMEs. There's no envelope. I had that checked. The overall expected market demand is estimated at around 200 million a year, based on studies carried out. These studies have also been mentioned earlier, in the first term on the part of the cabinet. The assessment was made on the basis of a study by PwC. The estimate based on studies is: about 30% for small and medium-sized enterprises and 70% for larger enterprises. That will be about 25 transactions a year; I have said that before. It's about direct funding at the mbk. And SMEs also benefit indirectly as a possible supplier of a large company. I would like to make one reservation: this is an assessment of the question and, of course, this is not yet a finding on the basis of requests for investment, because we have not formally started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u237	I'm gonna figure this out real quick. The minister says 200 million a year for about 25 projects. So you're talking about an average project size of between 5 million and 10 million. That's about what I'm guessing. And 30% of this goes to SMEs. That'll be about 60 million out of that 200 million. Can the Minister promise that this 60 million will be spent on SME projects? And how big are these projects? Because if you want to do 25 projects, it will be relatively small projects. And that is also the problem why such a fund is not working properly there. Can the Minister clarify this a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u238	I left it out, but your math checks out. On the basis of the PwC report, we estimate that this would then amount to 60 million a year in the beginning, in this initial phase. They are indeed relatively small amounts for SMEs, but we are also talking about SMEs. We're not talking about bigger companies. And Mr Knapen rightly said in his second term: this is the start. This is precisely to give companies who want to internationalise themselves a chance. This is aimed at companies that see a market, which can really start off quickly and become big, precisely because of relatively small amounts for the studies, risk cover and availability of capital. This could make a big difference. If it does not go ahead and in anticipation, that SME is expected to remain an SME in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u239	But the question was whether you could promise that that amount...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u240	Exactly, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u241	Well, it's an assessment. This is not something we can say about: it is necessarily going to be. The more the merrier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u242	That's the same problem as with Invest-NL. It was then sold as a panacea for SMEs. The authorisation law was not yet published in the Official Journal or SMEs were placed in the bulk. We must therefore have a more concrete commitment from the Minister that a certain amount of money will be paid to these SMEs. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u243	I totally understand, but it seems unwise to me. This institution, Invest International, is demand-driven. We have often seen this with OS instruments: an amount is reserved, but there is not necessarily a demand from the market itself, for example from civil society, to meet this. Then you get an artificial situation. We are talking about the commercial market here. We want to support it. I believe that a direction and commitment of commitment to ensure that this direction, that envelope, is achieved through Invest International, is legitimate. But a firm commitment that it will be, in such an early start-up phase of Invest International, seems unwise to me. But it's supported by studies from PwC.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u244	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u245	How should it be avoided, I don't know whose question it was, because it doesn't say that there is a disproportionate amount of funding going to multinationals? Oh, that question was from Mr Van Apeldoorn. It probably belonged, among other things, to Mr Van Apeldoorn. I already told you it was demand-driven. Theoretically, projects come from multinationals. Then I think of Empire Swan, the seed grower, who is also a multinational. Mr Van Apeldoorn may think of Unilever or Shell. There is a chance that large companies can also find their way through Invest International. But there are also criteria. It must be demonstrated that applications have been submitted to commercial banks and that they have been rejected as early as the Court's first term. A whole process must therefore be carried out in order to ensure that companies of this type are involved. The expectation is, of course, also based on the many years of experience through other funding channels, that funding will be used to a very small extent by the much larger companies, because they have all the other possibilities. But one hundred percent exclusion is not at issue at this stage. These are questions that can be taken into account in an evaluation after a few years: who are the users, who have encountered barriers and the balance in terms of the type of company? I've had a quick check to see if all of Mrs. Prast's questions have been answered. First of all, on the objective of Invest International. I believe that the cabinet has given an answer to that. There has also been talk of earning power and resolving global issues. But you had other questions. You were curious about the request. You asked, "What if you haven't investigated bank financing? How is that possible?" Not ticking the booth doesn't mean Invest International doesn't talk to an entrepreneur. It is a reason to ask additional questions in the context of the proper examination and to ensure that the potential entrepreneur really meets the criteria that have been set. I mentioned some of them. You also asked me about the vacancy: how does it relate to the principle of additionality? I confirm that we are not about the vacancies; that is to Invest International. The vacancy and the principle of additionality, one of the objectives, are separate. Additionality continues to apply everywhere. Furthermore, I have no insight into the vacancy. I'll pass this on to the Invest International team. I have a few other questions from Mrs Prast, but I will come back to them in the second block. Mr Van Ballekom asked about the ratio between 833 million and 1.5 billion: "What is the difference? Why would you apply to Invest International and not RVO?" On the one hand, this is the result of the arrangements. Development cooperation arrangements will continue to be covered by the external trade and development cooperation budget. Parliament is involved in this. In bringing it together, it is not intended that we should withdraw the 1.5 billion in one way or another, as I said in the first period of time. The aim is to make it easier, more effective and ultimately more efficient for business. So it is a one-stop shop for all financing. The RVO has other instruments aimed at knowledge and subsidies. It is also easier for recipients in developing cooperation countries. They get one organization, Invest International, with a lot of expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u246	Mr. Van Ballekom has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u247	I understand the answer, but is that 1.5 billion now being transferred to Invest-NL or is it staying with RVO?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u248	It's a combination, but the responsibility is separate. But we have also spent some time trying to find out about Mr Ballekom's final objective, so perhaps there is a miscommunication there. Maybe I don't understand the depth of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u249	No. In the first term, not only did I, but others also asked whether it would be wise to set up a special fund, because it concerns the disposal of 833 million over five or six years. Then the answer was: no, it is not just about removing 833 million in the market, but also about spending and how the 1.5 billion is spent on schemes. Then I think that's 833 million plus 1.5 billion. And then I wonder whether that 1.5 billion will be transferred to Invest-NL or whether it will remain under RVO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u250	The arrangements remain, but I think there are two things going on here. Invest International will consist of ODA schemes and non-ODA schemes. They are being implemented and they remain on the external trade and development cooperation budget. You also know what we are financing from this. That's the 1.5 billion. Those arrangements have enormous value. This makes the joint strength for our objectives immensely strong. They are bundled into one organization. So it is much easier for the customer, but the back room remains the same. I would like to say to Mr Ballekom an additional written reply tomorrow, in the interests of the debate in this Chamber. This will make it easier on the basis of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u251	Very nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u252	Mr Beuker asked whether the countries of the Kingdom of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten qualify for both Invest-NL and Invest International. The answer is no. These countries can only apply to Invest International on the basis of the grounds I mentioned earlier, because they qualify as foreign and foreign governments. I've named it before. The islands of Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius can be reached at both institutions. I understand Mr Beuker's interest in helping all the islands to move forward in economic growth. This is a Kingdom responsibility, also from the point of view of those who are eligible for foreign funding. So we are certainly taking this issue with us. I'll also hand it over to FMO... sorry, I mean Invest International. FMO has been around so many times, Madam President, excuse me. Mr Beuker also asked whether we would exploit biomass in the context of the energy transition. Not only must Invest International work demand-driven, but all standards must also be met. I mentioned all these criteria. This also applies to biomass projects. The Dutch views on biomass will be heard. I cannot rule it out 100%, but I would find it very difficult if, in countries where the energy transition needs to be deployed, we were to go to biomass. I have mentioned this before in the fossil transition; no money can be given to fossil investments based on "no, unless." Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the do-no-harm principle. That principle applies. I think I said it before: it's always about doing the better, doing the good. That is the starting point of the SDGs. We can measure that, and we know what changes we want to see. The do-no-harm principle is addressed by the imvo policy and the application of criteria such as environmental and work tests. "Do no harm" is the minimum. Then you haven't made any progress. You've only prevented worse. I think that's clear in all the other things in this cabinet. Ms Prast asked if Invest International had drawn up a roadmap for the selection of projects based on the SDGs. The impact on the progress of the SDGs is central to projects and investments. They are explicitly assessed for their contribution to the SDGs. This is also laid down in the procedures of Invest International. And it's reported annually. This is an important point to take into account in the assessment provided by the Cabinet after a period of three years. After one year is just too short, because then little has been achieved, but three years seems like a nice middle period. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked what the SDG test looked like in concrete terms. That's being worked on right now, like I just said. There is, of course, a measurement framework for each SDG. Not only the objectives and indicators are set at international level, but it must be very specific for each investment made. I will come back to this. When it is available, I will also be happy to inform this Chamber and the House of Representatives about the impact of this framework. A number of additional questions were asked during the second term of this Chamber. Mrs Faber asked: what are the consequences for the FMO if it does not comply with the SDGs or worse, if abuses are detected and/or if inadequate action is taken? I think that perhaps Mrs Faber did not quite sum up what I said in my enlightening remarks. We always have discussions and talks with the FMO at all levels, including myself. We take political responsibility for this. At the official level, regardless of the annual discussions, there is talk of possible abuses or reports of abuses and the requirement for the FMO not only to solve and address them, but also to act more preventively in the qualification of policies. Formally, there is also policy consultation twice a year on the strategy, on abuses to be reported and on the solutions to be discussed. Interim consultations are always there. If necessary, I would like to repeat it for the record: we are addressing the management board and the supervisory board with regard to their policies. We're going through all the stairs and it's all fixed in a policy agreement with the FMO and in corporate law. Then there is a question from Mrs Prast to which we had not answered before. She asked about the broad welfare balance and asked which components Invest International may contribute. Well-being and prosperity are inextricably linked. This is also reflected in the sustainable development goals. The difficulty with which you can make progress in many countries on the sustainability targets, including in the context of the Paris Agreement, is, of course, where the demand lies. However, I am talking about a fair and viable wage, which I have previously appointed, and about respect for human rights, the environment and the planet. I think that the coronapandemic, also in the prosperous West, has given us a different view of the consequences of these situations and of the consequences of their own actions and of their late action. We know what to do in the future for humans and planets, to make this planet safe and liveable and to leave it behind, also for future generations. This is central to the SDGs and the Paris Agreement and it requires different choices and other investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u253	At the risk of repeating myself: on the contrary, I always pointed out that the broad prosperity, as defined and measured by the CBS, does not make it possible to always improve all these goals. Some of them are conflicting. That is precisely what makes it a political issue to indicate to Invest International what criteria it should apply. Those aren't the SDGs, they're the Monitor Brede Prosperity. That's an addition. I do not expect an answer now, but I wanted to say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u254	Okay. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u255	The SDGs are an international agreement. What is in it can be expected from countries where we work and want to invest. We cannot necessarily carry out all the Dutch concept of broad prosperity, but I am thinking of this thinker. I'll share this one. It is about prosperity and well-being, but that is wider than socio-economic. Mrs Prast also asked if we are pursuing a generation-conscious policy. The answer to that is yes. We do this not only through the SDGs, but also through the generational test. I'll ask Invest International to do the same. We want to include generation tests in the Dutch policy and it is also important to do this with the SDGs. Moreover, it is much harder and clearer in many developing countries, because there is a very young generation without a future or a job or a home or climate in which to live. There, this is a much harder reality than in many other countries. On Mrs Prast's question on tax havens, Minister Hoekstra will come back again. Mr Beuker asked if there was a reservation for a non-ODA project. I have mentioned that it concerns ODA and non-ODA funding. There are no non-ODA projects. Most of Invest International is about non-ODA, because that is investment capital. That's for clarity. There are a number of ODA jars that go along. Mr Van Ballekom asked: can I give an insight into the costs of the cooperation agreement to be concluded? Cooperation agreements with FMO and RVO have yet to be finalised. They will become known after completion. We are looking for a way to share this without making company-sensitive information publicly available. We are also willing to discuss with RVO, FMO and Invest International how this Chamber can be included on a confidential basis while the work is still progressing. I had already had Mr Beuker's question on biomass. Mr Crone and Mr Van Apeldoorn said that if there is an interest in FMO and Invest International, then those who meet the SDGs must win. I believe that we have already exchanged here on the primary mandate for achieving the SDGs. I have spoken a long time about this with Mr Van Apeldoorn. I don't know if I can make another commitment, but just to be clear, SDGs are leading. It is leading with egg, not suffering with a long time, I say to Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u256	You repeat: everything meets the SDG requirements. Yeah, if it wasn't, it was a total drama. The point is that you have two projects and one, the FMO project, scores much better than the other, the Invest International project. Then we can't support them both. I'd support the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u257	If you want a simple answer from me, I say: the SDG investment must, of course, offer progress, otherwise you will go against your own framework and go against your own policy attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u258	Yeah, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u259	But I'm turning it around. I think it is also the responsibility of Invest International to encourage them to become SDG-relevant in all their contacts with companies where they are not yet SDG-sharp. That is where the market lies, and that is where the added value and earning capacity lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u260	Let me make it even clearer. There are two projects...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u261	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u262	... one of FMO and one of Invest International. They are all the same, but at one point one is much better for CO than the other. Then we'll pick the one, won't we? 'Cause you can't do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u263	I think I just named it that way. There was a question from several sides as to whether it could be evaluated earlier than five years. I can promise. I just said it'll take place in three years. It is very important that the evaluation itself is sharp in the number of questions and moments of analysis. Mr Apeldoorn asked about SMEs and larger companies. I answered it. Mrs Huizinga asked about the KPIs: how do we ensure that the KPIs from the agenda are sufficiently strong and ambitious? And if they don't get picked up, what are we gonna do? We have asked Invest International to formulate the challenges on the basis of the KPIs. You have to. There's no other way. I would like to talk to Invest International once again to stress that the bar must be set high, that the route must be accompanied to meet that bar and that a risk mitigation must be carried out. We do the same from development cooperation. We also take a plan to ensure that there is an intervention model, if there is a delay or if the targets are not met. It is precisely in development cooperation that there is a great deal of experience that can be exploited. Then there was another question from Mr Van Ballekom: can you give insight into the pipeline of projects? There are two things, and then I want to make a proposal. There are solid projects in the pipeline, namely FMO and Netherlands in Business. The latter is a precursor of Invest International. It concluded contracts for EUR 36 million in the first half of 2021. That's the forerunner. There are a number of other projects worth 135 million in the final stage of contracting. Twelve other projects are in an early phase of the pipeline. I am advised that this cannot be shared publicly, because of company confidential information, but the offer is that for information purposes the Chamber can be taken on a confidential basis to gain insight in the very short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u264	If I understand correctly, 36 million has already been realized by the forerunner of the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u265	The Netherlands in Business is the forerunner of Invest International, as Mr Van Ballekom is known. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u266	Am I to understand that this has brought you to the end of your term? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance. He will also deal with the motions, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u267	Madam President, thank you very much. What a pleasure to see you here in this role. There are a few questions left from the first term. Then I shall proceed with an appreciation of the motions. With regard to Mrs Faber and Mr Otten, I would like to say a few words about the percentage of shares and their distribution. To avoid misunderstandings: the State has 51%, the banks 42% and the rest is 7%. It is therefore not the case that individuals have 7%, in the sense of citizens, but it is a group of about 100 Dutch companies plus trade unions plus individuals. It seems to me that it would be a good idea to specify this, even in the hope that Mr Otten might be able to put another question to it, because he had not actually done so until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u268	Every answer I hear raises new questions. Hundred Dutch companies. Then all kinds of conflicts of interest will be dealt with very quickly. It's essential that we know who those shareholders are, and that's what I'm sticking with. I would ask the Minister to give that answer, because we simply need to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u269	We have discussed this in detail in detail in the first period. Mr Otten's motion will therefore be rejected in a moment. I would like to say that it is always the case, when a participant has a shareholder position, that the board of the participation is in it and not an individual private shareholder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u270	No, but it's a matter of conflict of interest. If there is a particular project with Shell in Africa, but that is not so obvious, so a more sustainable project in which FMO is also a shareholder, then there is a conflict of interest. We are not necessarily opposed to this, but the most important thing is that we want transparency. How are you going to manage these conflicts of interest? I still haven't heard a good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u271	It was in your absence, Mr President, but we tried to work this out in seven different rounds and we failed. I understand that Mr Otten's enthusiasm for the legislative proposal cannot be further strengthened, but I cannot resolve that on this particular part of the dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u272	Mr. Otten, I have to say that you will not receive an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u273	The Minister refuses to answer, that is also my conclusion, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u274	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u275	Mr Crone came back to the KPIs. He was still considering what the verdict should be. In his direction, I would like to say that the strategy paper of Invest International itself is. They draw up the strategy within the framework of the law. The shareholder is then heard and consulted, but the SVC approves, which is important to mark here. Moreover, it is exactly the same as with the other State participations. Mr. Chairman. That's what got me into the motions. No, I have a few more things that I'll go into briefly. Mrs. Prast mentioned the ABN. For the strategy and the foreign activity of the strategy, it is really up to the bank itself. Although this bank is temporarily governed by the government, we are at a distance, also because of the construction with NLFI. I understand the inspiration of the question and I hope she understands my answer. Mrs Prast will now say that that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u276	I do understand what the Minister is saying, but it is not really an answer to my question, because my question was whether the losses that ABN AMRO no longer wants to suffer on foreign activities will end up with the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u277	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u278	A clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u279	Mr President, that seems to me to be the end of the questions that had remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u280	I had asked about tax havens and to what extent that is international corporate social responsibility. Surely a country should be able to levy taxes? In my first term, I mentioned, among other things, an example of an energy company channeling profits to tax havens. That was Azure Power, but that's not the only company that's channeling profits to tax havens. I had a whole zipper of companies doing that. So once again, my question to the Minister: to what extent is that consistent with corporate social responsibility? Surely we agree that it is necessary for a country to be able to levy taxes? That is also what Minister Kaag stated in her term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u281	Yeah, sure, sure. Mrs Kaag and I fully agree on that. Anyway, but also because we're both members of the same Crown. So we will make exactly the same comments towards Mrs Faber. In my opinion, there is, of course, an ongoing discussion worldwide about what you think is fair and sensible in the area of taxation. Sometimes the word "tax paradise" is taken loosely in the mouth. I'm not saying Mrs Faber does. But with regard to when the Dutch government considers countries not in line with how we feel that tax should be levied, we refer to those specific lists. Mrs Faber is familiar with the debate on the grey and blacklists. The Secretary of State for Finance keeps the Lower House, and I also believe the Upper Chamber, regularly informed of this. Furthermore, I think that Invest International is also true of course for other State participations, which has to be taken into account in the judgment. But I cannot specifically look at those cases that Mrs Faber is performing here. In a more general sense, I would like to refer to the policy of the cabinet on how to deal with taxation. That's really substantially different than it was ten or twenty years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u282	I can't get an answer to my question. FMO is aware that investments have been made to companies that block profits. Yvonne Sphere from FMO has also said that she is aware of this. And she also said, if that's all legal, does it have to be a showstopper? Look, we're going to add 833 million more to the market here. Can we then agree that profits will be diverted to tax havens? Our taxpayer, the Dutch taxpayer, has to pay maximum, while companies have to pay minimum in such cases. That's absurd, isn't it? That can't be socially responsible, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u283	What I think we agree on is that corporate social responsibility is very important anyway. This applies in particular to State participations dealing with this type of subject. My conviction is that, for the past five or ten years at all, the bar for what we consider to be corporate social responsibility is actually only going up. This extends to all kinds of things that we can read daily in the newspaper. Think about the discussions about child labour and about not polluting the planet, but also about: what is fair about tax payments? So that bar will also go up further. Only, I can't issue a general decree on this in a specific case I don't know. What I can do, of course, is to say to Mrs Faber that we are still bringing this point to the attention of the Invest International board of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u284	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u285	Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. The first motion, the one with letter I, is by Mrs Faber; not entirely surprising. In that motion, it is important to read in a very specific way. What is in the preamble? It states that "both a board member and a commissioner may only participate in deliberations and decision-making within his or her body if there is a conflict of interest with the company." Now language is important, but my first reading would suggest that the word "not" is missing. If it weren't, I'd have to discourage the motion. However, I believe that Mrs Faber would like you to take part in the debate only if there is no conflict of interest. Did I get that correctly? Okay. I shall read the preamble as I have just indicated. Then, on the basis of the request, in which 'a personal conflict of interest' is replaced by 'a conflict of interest in any form', I can give a ruling on Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u286	I understand that Mrs Faber is going to amend the motion to that effect. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u287	If I have read it correctly, perhaps I have been given an old version of the text, which lacks the word 'not' in the preamble, and which is precisely the opposite of what Mrs Faber has argued. Then we've solved it. Mr. Chairman. The second motion by Mrs Faber, the one with letter H, the motion on the RP and the RP, I must advise against referring to the debate. This motion really goes a step further than what is customary in state participations and, frankly, does not solve a specific point. So I would advise against the motion with letter H. The motions with the letters "H" and "I" have been done with this. I see now that they were not in the right order with me, Mr President; I apologise for that. Then I'll be at the motion with letter J, the motion of the Member Buckle. This motion I must advise against. None of the State participations are subject to the WNT. We have this debate here more often. Mr Van Apeldoorn also sometimes mixes in. I would like to refer to the first term and to standing policy and therefore to discourage the motion. The motion with letter L by Mr Otten today is also an evergreen. I must advise against this motion since it is not in line with the Civil Code. That's disappointing but not surprising for him. The motion with letter K, including Mr Otten, should also be discouraged, because the regular shareholder powers are sufficient as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u288	I note that public investment and public participation are subject to different rules than other Dutch. We have UBO records. Every butcher around the corner has to fill out a UBO register at the Chamber of Commerce. We all need to know who the shareholders are. I heard from the minister that 100 companies have a stake in FMO. That was set up in 1970; that must have been the multinationals and other companies at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u289	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u290	Well, I would just like to point out that double standards are applied. My question about the impairment on the interest in FMO of the State has not yet been answered either. For the first time in its 50-year existence, FMO suffered a quarter of a billion losses in the first half of 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u291	Mr. Otten, you're in the middle of a new argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u292	What's the consequences? So I want transparency from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u293	You have also tabled a motion to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u294	I have just provided the motion with an opinion, and I have answered all the questions that apply to Invest International; perhaps not all of them to the satisfaction of Mr Otten, but still a way forward. That brings me to the end of the debate on these two motions. I wanted to share two more things with you. The first is that I was given a very interesting statement during a break, namely that one of your members, Mrs Moonen, worked at the Ministry of Finance. That was specifically whispered to me, because it is always greatly appreciated when some of the people who are now working hard down here become members of the States General at some point. I know from the House of Representatives that these are the most dangerous members in the States General. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for what I understand is the last debate in the Knight's Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u295	That is very much appreciated, but before you do that, I must point out that there are two other motions tabled by Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u296	Yes, but he'll discuss it with the Secretary of State. That's why I'm trying to end my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u297	It's the second last meeting. We'll have a meeting next week. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u298	Hello, Madam President. Yes, two motions from Mrs. Prast. One also had the letter M of Mary and the other the letter N of Nico, but it is still another motion. The motion with letter M refers to the fact that Invest International should only support projects and activities in which it is absolutely clear that there is no use of cobalt mined in Congo. I'm giving this motion judgment room. Cobalt is used for all kinds of products. It is complicated, but it is also about the conditions under which it is won: living standards, combating child labour and so on. When I read the motion like that, I'm gonna give her judgment room. Mrs Prast's second motion is that with letter N. Wide prosperity is in line with the SDGs, as I have often mentioned. It is the central policy of this cabinet. So I'm giving the motion judgment Chamber. Thank you, Madam President, and the Members for this debate for the start of the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u299	You were right to point out that there is another motion with the letter M. That's the Otten motion. It's supposed to have letter L. I understand Mrs Faber has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u300	Would you give me the opportunity to table an amended motion? Then that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u301	We're gonna get a third term. It won't take place today, but next week... Then I'm too fast. You could change the motion now? All right, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u302	I'm assuming you can do that from behind the interrupting microphone. In any case, I would like to thank both ministers, including Minister Hoekstra, for taking part in my motion. I would say: why do you not take your place in my group? That would be a nice addition. Anyway, that aside. In the recitals we have put the word 'not' in between, as the Minister has recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u303	The motion Faber of the Klashorst c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under the statutes of Invest International, both a board member and a commissioner are not allowed to participate in deliberations and decision-making within his/her gremium if he/she directly or indirectly has a personal conflict of interest with the company;]] [[considers that both a board member and a commissioner should only participate in deliberations and decision-making within his/her body if there is no conflict of interest with the company;]] [[calls on the Government to amend Article 16 (3) and Article 25 (9) "a personal conflict of interest" to "a conflict of interest in any form,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35529-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u304	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. I'm seeing some confusion. It's a new situation for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u305	I respond to your comment on the third term. That's why I withheld another motion. Very briefly, Mr President, I shall read out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u306	So you're asking for a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u307	No, if I can file this motion now, I don't need a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u308	Your request is to keep a third term. Then you can file the motion next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u309	As far as I am concerned, there does not need to be a third deadline if I can simply table this motion. Then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u310	There may be more people who want a third term. I would ask you to apply for a third term. Then we'll do it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u311	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u312	So I understand that you want a third term; then we will do so next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u313	If we do have a third deadline, we can also give the Cabinet the opportunity to think about a solution to these conflicts or interests with all those shareholders. This could then possibly be discussed in the third term, together with Mr Beuker's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u314	The Minister of Finance wants to say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u315	In the meantime, we have not come closer to this in eight to nine different rounds. I can't give you any other information about that. So my proposal is that Members take that particular point into account in their assessment of the legislative proposal. But no additional information can be expected from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u316	Good. I note that we have a third term next week.
