ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35517, Amendment of the Housing Act 2014, the Housing Act, Book 7 of the Civil Code and the Transitional Act new Civil Code following the review of the revised Housing Act and to extend the possibilities for temporary leases. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer. She will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2015, the Housing Act was amended. Partly as a result of a number of scandals in housing corporations that turned out to hold huge investment portfolios, moved on the commercial housing market and very generously rewarded their directors, detailed regulations were introduced that restricted the tasks and powers of corporations and strengthened supervision. That was necessary and it worked, as the evaluation shows. The same assessment also shows that the regulatory framework was too detailed and restrictive. The current legislative proposal is based on this evaluation and provides for housing corporations to be given more room for manoeuvre to carry out their social tasks and for more tailor-made work at municipal level. I would like to begin by complimenting the Minister for actually transposing the findings of the evaluation into legislation. That is not always the case, unfortunately. I refer to the Rotterdam Act, which has been evaluated as being ineffective and has the necessary legal framework and clamps. Can the Minister explain why that evaluation did not lead to a legislative amendment or repeal of the law and the evaluation of the Housing Act did? I assume that the Minister, given her missionary status, is not going to initiate that legislative change, but I wonder if the question of whether the Rotterdam law should be repealed or amended is part of the formation dossier from her department. Back to the bill before us. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes the proposed simplifications, the revised rules on governance, the extension of the scope for local tailor-made work, the extension of the appropriate allocation to older people with wealth, the more general formulation of the regulation on SGEIs and non-DAEB and the extension of the possibilities for housing corporations to invest in living and sustainability. I'll be back at that later. What my group does not agree with is the extension of the temporary lease period from two to three years added to the Koerhuis amendment. We get a lot of signals that temporary rental has mainly negative effects, especially on living security. We find it incomprehensible that the House of Representatives voted by a majority in favour of extending the deadline without waiting for the evaluation of the temporary rental. That evaluation should be there about now. Is this there yet? If not, when will it come? I also hear noises that a number of groups in the House of Representatives have now regretted their support for this amendment or would be voting differently at this time. Hence my question: does the Minister see the possibility of ensuring, in the light of the evaluation and the possible change in opinion in the House of Representatives, that the part of the law extending the time limit for temporary rental is introduced later or not? We welcome another amendment adopted in the House of Representatives. That is the Dik-Faber amendment, which adds a chapter to book 7 of the BW, which regulates the possibilities of buying-in protection, whereby municipalities can impose a duty of self-inhabitation when buying cheap and medium-priced residential properties. As far as we are concerned, it is also a good thing that municipalities can decide for themselves what they consider to be cheap and middle rents, because that is quite different from one municipality to another. Then there's sustainability. It is a good thing that housing corporations can invest in sustainability measures in the future, even if not only their own tenants are delivered. Corporations may also return energy generated on or to their assets to the grid and may participate in energy cooperatives with the property in their possession. Thanks to the adopted Smeulders amendment, sustainability has also been added to the core tasks of housing corporations. Can the Minister state what its practical significance is? Does it mean, for example, that sustainability agreements can be made in the local performance agreements? Can municipalities go beyond performance agreements to require housing corporations to provide all their new buildings and their existing construction with solar panels? Finally, I have a general question about housing policy. The housing crisis is dragging on, and there seems to be little improvement. I would therefore like to ask again today how the Minister is going to ensure that there is a sufficient supply of social and middle homes, so that the fundamental right to live does not become completely illusory. In this context, is it desirable to be able to sell corporate housing? This remains possible under the present law. Wouldn't it be much more desirable for us to finally get rid of this landlord's tax? Almost all parties want this. The abolition of this tax could really boost the realisation and sustainability of housing supply by corporations. Abolition could in principle take place in the following budget, read: the following tax plan. Only, before then, we don't have a new cabinet. It is therefore important for this cabinet to take steps in this direction. Is the Minister going to take the lead in this? Would it help the Minister if this Chamber called on her to do so? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I shall now give the floor to Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for this draft law and for answering the questions. In itself, this is a fine bill, which contains a lot of changes that are a correction to the previous measures to gag housing corporations, to put it bluntly. Mrs De Boer has also mentioned a number of points, which I will not repeat. The housing corporations now have more room to make wider investments in sustainability and in developments in social rental, middle rent and, more broadly, the district. The market test expires. So these are really very good developments, which hopefully brings back the strength of the investments in the neighbourhoods that the Netherlands was so famous for. Indeed, this also includes an adjustment or a reduction in the landlord's tax. The Presidents welcome these measures. Also an important point is the buying-up protection, which allows the buyers and the cottage milkers to sometimes also be neat people can not buy up the houses in neighborhoods, move around, thus creating a completely different atmosphere in the neighborhood and disrupt the housing market. However, I understand from aldermen that there may still be some obstacles in the laws and regulations to really apply this properly. I do not know if these are key issues, but I would like to hear whether the Minister has heard this and whether there is still some solution in this law or in lower legislation. Mr. Chairman. These are, of course, measures in a very difficult market. Where in Europe is the market not difficult when it comes to rent and purchase? In Berlin and everywhere it's horrible. You'd still have a thing for Sweden and rent. Then you'll just get a motion of censure. The paper says it was only a matter of time. The Swedish government has fallen. So it is not the people, it is the politicians, it is the market conditions. We've talked about this before. Let's all take care of it... That motion is in the closet, so I don't know what I'm talking about anymore. The market is, of course, seriously disturbed. We all have that problem. What's the easiest solution? It doesn't exist, but at least don't make the wrong calculation. That is why we are very indignant when we see a further disruption of the housing market and the rights of the tenants. In the previous debate on 16 March, I said this in Mr Koerhuis's nasty amendment. Due to the general tightness, buyers and tenants are getting less and less space to find something in the overcrowded housing market. If they find something, they have to pay a much higher price, whether it's rent or buy. Some developers and owners make big money from it, but it also leads to a sharper division in the market. We have just received another study which we are discussing this afternoon at the procedural meeting.............................................................................................................................................................................. SEO research shows that it has not led to more houses or lower prices, but to higher prices and not even lower mortgage debts. I'd like to ask the cabinet to withdraw the jubelton. However, the Secretary of State for Finance has already said that the jubelton should at least not be extended, because the Secretary of State is decommissioning. Mr. Chairman. It is incomprehensible that there was even a majority in the House of Representatives to adopt the amendment allowing temporary rent from two to three years. Two years was an exception to the rule. This has always been brought about by Minister Ollongren, and in the past by Minister Blok. There could be more temporary rent to get some space in the market, for example for expats, or for last chancers, as that group is called. Now, however, it is almost a general rule in the market, particularly in the private market, that temporary contracts are becoming more and more frequent. In addition, people can apparently get temporary contracts consecutively. So it's not just one two years, it's two more years, two more years, and so on. You'll be in an uncertain state forever. These are forms of a flexible rental market, while we have learned from a flexible labour market that this is only a strengthening of the strong parties and not of the weak parties. So I would like to ask the Minister again if she thinks the same thing she did at the time when it was introduced: temporary contracts should not become the main rule, but there should be defined target groups for which this might be appropriate, and it is not for everyone. Please note that this is only the case from 2016. At that time it was really agreed that there would be an evaluation of those two years of temporaryity. Mrs. De Boer said so. That evaluation isn't here yet. It was supposed to be there after five years, and that's now. So I wonder if there are any news of that evaluation. We do hear, for example from Investico, that a third of the temporary leases even have an unlawful minimum term. I read this morning that the site of Vers Beton thinks that in Rotterdam half of the free sector has temporary contracts. That's a nice name, Vers Beton, by the way, because you'll get new houses. So that's half the contracts. This means uncertainty on both sides, especially if a minimum time limit is set, which apparently is also the case. You can't leave sooner and at the same time you know you're on the kick chair. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the imposition of that minimum period is actually allowed under the law. Or is that through this amendment, or could we still be able to reverse it? Is it also true that landlords can say the following? You can stay, but then you have to pay €50 more, which is okay if you don't, then you go somewhere else. Everyone knows, however, that there is no place elsewhere. For you many others and then you have to agree to the higher rent. The House Union has also sent us appalling examples of this, which the Minister, I would ask, probably knows. It is a build-up of uncertainties in one amendment. That's pretty good, if it wasn't so sad. Mr. Chairman. Many of us will hear these stories from their own children, from friends, but also from the elderly. Everyone's having trouble with that now. Of course, it also disturbs the functioning of the labour market, because you cannot move somewhere now, because you cannot find a home there or because you will end up in such a temporary situation. So I really hope that the cabinet will put an end to this quickly, with priority being given to people with children. For children, it is of course a tragedy if there is another school to be sought every two years, they have to rebuild their lives, and so on. Mr. Chairman. I'm a market-socialist, as we all know. It could have led to higher and temporary rents leading to more houses and new buildings. I don't see how this is happening. In the "best" case, there is extra room. Then there are a few more rooms that were not there, but that is at the expense of the existing housing stock. I don't know if the minister has an analysis. The evaluation isn't here yet. It is only a question of redistribution. That's why I'm asking if we shouldn't evaluate the Wet flow, which it started with, before we take a next step. Indeed, evaluation can also show that you need to take a step back. So I'd like that adjustment. On 16 March, I have already advocated that at least this amendment should not be introduced. Of course you can, for all kinds of reasons. There may be reasons not to introduce legislation yet. At the same time, it would be even better if we reversed the amendment. This should lead to a review, of course with the cabinet, but also with the House of Representatives. The logical route is then a repair law or a novelle. I hope there is that possibility. D66 indicated in the previous debate that they wanted to think seriously about this. I am glad that other groups have been able to think this afternoon and who knows what will come out. That's the royal route. As a Second and First Chamber, we both have our own consideration to make. We have no solution mechanisms in the Netherlands. In foreign countries where you can have different majorities, it is. We do not have here any resolution mechanisms for resolving conflicts between the Second and the First Chambers, but in this case I hope we will say this unanimously. When I look at the election programmes that have been there after this amendment, I am hopeful that people in the Lower House will think: well, if the Upper House wants this, then we in the Lower House want to look at it in a healthy way. Of course, we are happy to accept that. Mr President, I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr Crone. Then I give the floor to Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This will be the last or one of the last debates with this minister on the housing market before the outgoing cabinet is replaced by another missionary cabinet. The housing shortage is high. I have also said here earlier what needs to be done: to build, to build, to build. As so often, measures tend to be long after in politics, so here too. Let me therefore also mention some of the results of this cabinet period. The house production went from 40,000 to 70,000 in 2020, also a very difficult corona year. The NRC wrote last night: the housing shortage will be over in a few years. I thought that was very optimistic, but it is good to see: from 40,000 to 70,000. The landlord's tax was substantially reduced by hundreds of millions. I hope that a new cabinet will put an end to this. The cabinet invested 1 billion in the Housing Impulse, which means that another 100,000 homes will soon be built. The rents were frozen, not quite without a hit or hit. And there was a threshold for building in the nitrogen law. Those are indeed policies that we are very happy with. Mr. Chairman. This updated Housing Act also has many improvements in an overstretched housing market. The administrative burden on corporations is reduced and simplified. They will be given more opportunities for sustainability and promotion of viability. It also makes it possible for them to achieve more middle-segment housing, which will promote the necessary flow into the housing market. When the treatment in the Lower House was almost completed, we actually seemed to be heading towards hammers here, because this legislative amendment is an important link to a nice evaluation to improve the housing market. You might as well compliment it. But one thing's bothering us. When we discussed here earlier the proposal of the minister's predecessor, Blok, the Rent Market Act 2015, which provided for temporary two-year lease contracts to be possible, we, as the D66 Group, had our reservations. But Blok said at that time that this was going to be one of the exceptions and that it was an option that the rental market also asked for, for example for expats. Later, in 2016, Minister Ollongren repeated that. In no way was it intended that temporary leases would become the standard, quite the contrary. A supplement, that's what it was all about. D66, when opposition party, agreed. The law would also be evaluated to determine whether it produced what we expected at the time. Mr. Chairman. In the final round of the discussion of this bill, Mr Koerhuis tabled an amendment, which was not recommended by the cabinet, to extend the temporary contracts to three years. Without evaluation of the law, which was agreed, or actually a substantive debate, the House of Representatives agreed. Investico, which has carried out an otherwise not entirely representative study of the temporary leases, reports that they seem to become more and more the norm, which weakens the legal positions of tenants and often leads to much greater rent increases and legal problems in an overstretched housing market than desired. The House Union also got a lot of complaints about it. Moreover, this amendment does not allow tenants to cancel the rent for a certain period, which is also extremely unfortunate. Mr. Chairman. In the House of Representatives, the D66 Group also voted in favour of this amendment. I have said this here in an earlier debate, with Ferd Crone, who challenged me to do so, also called it 'unhappy'. The amendment is also contrary to our current electoral programme. And now when you talk to members of the House of Representatives about this, a large part of those who spoke at the time say: yes, this has been an unfortunate amendment and it should have had much more debate. D66 deeply regrets the situation on the other side and also believes that the amendment is contrary to previous agreements we made here, when dealing with the Transit Act. Is the issue of the temporary lease included in the forthcoming evaluations? The results will come to us at the end of the summer. Mr. Chairman. The way things are going does pose a dilemma. On the one hand, the law is a clear improvement on the current law, and on the other hand, we do not want to promote the deterioration of the position of tenants and temporary leases as the norm through an ill-thought-out action against which the cabinet was opposed. That brings us to the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister recognise that the Koerhuis amendment is a deterioration in the position of the tenant and that it has been achieved without the previously agreed evaluation? Does the cabinet also consider that the amendment constitutes an unintentional deterioration of the complete legislative proposal? And does the Minister see any possibility of reaching a repair law before the bill as a whole comes into force? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna hook up with the call D66 just made. If laws are still being amended or certain steps are being taken before laws come into force, then I say: we should also discuss them this afternoon when we discuss municipal reclassifications. That could also be an interesting option. But that's for this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. I will come back to the proposed amendment to the Housing Act. I shall begin with a brief question following the following quote from the explanatory memorandum, page 23. "Authorised institutions may also participate in an energy cooperative in which they, as a "company," can cooperate with tenants, companies and/or municipalities in the generation, transport and use of renewable energy in collective management. Allowed institutions must also introduce their own real estate and energy-generating installations into the energy cooperative. Participation in an energy cooperative without the provision of own real estate is not allowed because it participates in large-scale energy generation. Such activities are outside the expertise and scope of authorised institutions." For the purpose of clarification: these "authorized institutions" often refer to housing corporations. I have the following question about this quote. Can the Minister indicate whether, in this context, real estate should also be understood as property owned by corporations, such as strategic land ownership which is not yet planned for housing? Does this mean that such ground positions can be used in this context for the construction of wind farms or solar fields? I'd like to hear a response. As far as PVV is concerned, housing corporations should not be involved in such energy cooperatives at all, but should do their core job: to realize sufficient housing for our residents. And then I'm talking real homes, instead of all kinds of temporary, fast-built flex rental complexes. A columnist in De Telegraaf, Marianne Zwagerman, mentioned this last week as "asylum search centers for Dutch youth." Many Dutch house seekers are now dependent on this, while many "normal" homes are given away to status holders. And to make things even crazier, director Milo Schoenmaker of the COA, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers, recently even suggested that welfare families share homes with asylum seekers. It shouldn't be any crazier. Mr. Chairman. These are the fundamental issues that need to be addressed. The legislative proposal before us today contributes to the necessary practicalities, but as long as the borders remain open to mass immigration, the problems in this overcrowded country continue to get worse and thus, above all, the problems in the housing market. Mr. Chairman. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I now give the floor to Mr Talsma, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. When the first House Act was adopted in this house 120 years ago, that was an event of importance. It was a law that gave the government the power to take corrective and stimulating action in the housing sector, for example by combating over-inhabitation and over-crowding, enforcing housing improvement and by contributing financially to good and healthy housing, including for those who could not afford it themselves. Our former colleague In 't Veld, who was Minister for Reconstruction and Housing for four years, even said 50 years after the entry into force "... that few laws on the image of our people and the appearance of city and country have had as much influence as the 1901 Housing Act." Since then, the Housing Act has been adapted several times to the demands or so you want the political mindset of time. The government has moved away over time and has become more and more confident in market forces for correcting and stimulating what I have just mentioned. The bill we are discussing today, when it was submitted to the House of Representatives, included many amendments aimed at reducing the administrative burden on housing corporations and measures on the sustainability of housing and the viability of neighbourhoods. The way it was, my group might even have wanted to support it without a debate. However, the bill was substantially amended in the House of Representatives and, as far as we are concerned, not only in favour of it. The two extremes I light out. My group is satisfied with the introduction of buy-back protection. This gives municipalities the opportunity to ensure that cheap and middle-priced residential properties in certain neighbourhoods cannot be bought up for rent. This is a measure of urgency, which should help to solve the problems in the scarce market for that type of housing, and which also works on the viability of neighbourhoods. The measure will have to prove itself in practice, but we have good hope. However, we are very critical of extending the possibilities for the use of temporary leases. The balance of power in the market for affordable rentals is not very balanced, given the high demand and limited supply, but this widening strengthens it: the position of the tenant becomes weaker and more uncertain by the combination of more temporary contracts and the use of certain periods during which the rent cannot be terminated. This is contrary to my group's view that temporary rental contacts should not become the norm and that the current market requires great care when it comes to the position of tenants and start-ups. Mr. Chairman. My group is well aware that the bill has been accepted unanimously by the House of Representatives. But we are faced with a difficult, independent balance here. To vote against because of a very undesirable part, but also against the many parts that we would like to support and regard as urgent, or vote in favour, but thus also a definite deterioration in the position of tenants. For a solution direction I return to where I started, namely the period in which the first Housing Act was passed. There I see a precedent that might provide some relief, described by Professor Prakke in the undoubtedly well-known book on this side of the Binnenhof. The Bankruptcy Act, as submitted to the Senate, had been amended in the House of Representatives and led to serious objections in the House of Representatives. But voting against the law was too important. On the other hand, the undesirable consequences of the amendment were not an option either. The explanation was found in this case because our former colleague Pijnappel crossed over to the House of Representatives and impeccably submitted an initiative bill to repair the law. Please understand, Mr President, I am not announcing my departure here, but I would like to hear from the Minister, with a variant of this precedent, whether she sees the possibility of restoring the uncompromising text on the specific issue of the extension of time limits for temporary leases and the introduction of the minimum duration. My group would appreciate that very much. It would do justice to the considerable objections that live here, without prejudice to the position of the House of Representatives. I am therefore waiting with interest for the Minister's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u12	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. I now give the floor to Mr Kox. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mr President, may I begin by congratulating the Minister on the fact that she has succeeded in getting the proposal before us adopted unanimously across the street? We can only use this term for the other Chamber once more, before both Chambers will be spatially separated for the first time in history this summer. Whether we are going to be separated from this minister after this summer, no one knows yet, at most they themselves. She has been here a number of times in recent years to talk to us about housing in our country, and on the other side many more times, as she herself recalled during the last legislative consultation on this bill. In both Chambers, things have gone well, but the result is all very encouraging. After all, the rental policy has been changed considerably. Social rentals have been frozen for the first time this year for a very long time. The free rentals are restricted. Despite corona, house production is higher than expected. And the review of the Housing Act revised in 2015 leads to a number of substantial improvements, if we say yes to this today. The housing corporations, which play a vital role in our housing, are given more room for manoeuvre. From now on, monitoring will be based on trust instead of the mistrust that led to the drafting of the revised Housing Act 2015, which followed the parliamentary survey in which large-scale misconduct of different housing corporations was revealed. If we adopt this bill, there will also be more local space and control and involvement of municipal councils, corporations and tenants in meeting the basic need of having a decent and affordable roof over your head. It is not my usual practice to compliment the government, but if we see where we stand compared to a year ago, then we can be satisfied. That's what I'm saying to Mr. Pijlman. Mr. Chairman. These improvements are also urgently needed, because the housing shortage, which is both quantitative and qualitative, can, just as half a century ago, claim the nasty title "people enemy one." There is a screaming shortage of good, affordable and sustainable homes. The waiting times for a house are bizarrely long. The purchase and rental prices have come out of the pan. Huisjemelders and real estate investors make large-scale use of the needs of many young people in particular. A new cabinet of any composition will not escape giving social housing a very high priority, as this minister has just emphasised. Although the negotiations on a new cabinet are not very rapid, certain contours are already emerging. It's time to freeze the rents for a long time. In the Lower House this spring we saw the growth towards a historic compromise between SP and VVD, in which my party colleague Sandra Beckerman was warmly congratulated on her rental stop by her VVD colleague Koerhuis, who announced that she would also want to freeze the rents for four years. In the same debate, broad support seemed to be growing for the long-cherished desire to abolish the maled landlord's tax, as Mr Pijlman also said, in order to give housing corporations more power in fulfilling all their social tasks. The study published yesterday by this minister, in cooperation with EZK, Aedes, the Housing Union and the VNG, shows how much this is needed. This research shows that housing corporations are no less than 30 billion short of fulfilling all the social tasks assigned to them. Without that money, we cannot build, improve and sustain enough houses until 2035. If the Minister finds that out, then who are we to contradict that? I would like to hear from the Minister how she herself intends to close the punched hole in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. I started with the mention that the current proposal on the amendment of the Housing Act following the review of the law and the amendment of some other laws repealing eight existing laws has received general support on the other side. That doesn't mean it was a simple walk-over for the minister across the street. Just over 80 pages of the report on the legislative consultation which preceded unanimous support shows how much political awareness has become in recent years of the need for more intensive interference with the many sides of housing and the fatal mistakes that have been made in this area in the past. A large number of amendments and motions have shaped the involvement of the House of Representatives. There is no point in reviewing them all here, especially since it is ultimately our job to say yes or no to a legislative proposal as it has been submitted to us. Our group is pleased that, thanks to an amendment tabled by Christian Union colleague Dik-Faber, it will now be possible for municipal councils to introduce a buy-back protection in the form of a ban on renting unlicensed properties. This will finally be able to counter the scandalous activities of house milkers and real estate investors who turn the great need of others into their own detestable virtue and make big money out of the housing shortage. We are also pleased that from now on every city council has to make its own local housing vision, in which especially corporations, tenants and their organisations have a greater influence on local housing policy. An amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Beckerman, did not come across any objections from the Minister and received general support on the other side of the bill. Not at all happy is our group, with many others in this House, with the amendment adopted by the House on the extension of temporary leases. That amendment reached a majority on the other side by surprise, but it seems to me that the view of a majority in both Chambers is now at odds with what is made possible by the amendment. It seems that the amendment will therefore fall in a cabinet formation. That would be fine, if it were not for nothing to happen, that amendment until there is a cabinet on the border. We do not know when that is and how much longer that will take. It is still odd that this Chamber should adopt a legal provision, dissuaded by this Minister and contrary to previously agreed policies, which apparently no longer have a majority in both houses, and which is already heavily criticised outside this house and outside the Binnenhof. Much has already been said about this and I wonder if the Minister can show us a goat path through which we can escape these undesirable consequences of this ill-thought-out amendment. A novelle has already been mentioned, a repair law. Let me point out, however, that this must be done without compromising the proper constitutional relations between the two Chambers and the relationship between government and parliament. We have discussed this before in a different context, but we must keep an eye on these relations. Nevertheless, I hope that the Minister will seek an appropriate solution with us to ensure that agreed policies, agreed in both Chambers, will also be implemented and will not be thwarted by this very unfortunate amendment. The latter is also necessary, in my view, to prevent this legislation from becoming unexpectedly exciting at the last minute. I hope this is not the case. I look forward to the Minister's response. And if it can help her, I am thinking in second place of tabling a motion in which this Chamber also says Chamberwide that we should all be looking for a solution to a problem that should not have arisen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Then I give the floor to Mr Rietkerk, who will speak on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group supports the intention of the proposed amendment to the Housing Act to improve the functioning, feasibility and future resilience of the Housing Act by increasing opportunities for local tailor-made work, by allowing for more risk-oriented supervision and by reducing administrative burdens. Unnecessary detailed rules are deleted, which the CDA Group is always in favour of, and rules are simplified and clarified. I agree with the questions put by Mr De Boer concerning the evaluation of temporary rental. I would like to follow on from a comment made by Mrs De Boer on the investment of housing corporations and sustainability in terms of implementation effects, and the following. The CDA sees a lot of opportunities for investment in sustainability there, especially when it comes to employment effects, in our opinion, are positive effects, but also when it comes to reducing the burden on tenants, I say to the PPV group. Can the Minister briefly state whether the CDA Group's picture of the implementation effects of investment by the housing corporation is correct? However, the Lower House has also decided to extend the use of temporary leases. Other speakers have already mentioned this. It goes from two to three years. Let us be clear that the CDA Group considers this to be a deterioration in the position and security of tenants. The extension of temporary contracts to a maximum of three years increases uncertainty in our view. This is reinforced by the fact that, according to this proposal, tenants can rely on a build-up of uncertainties, as landlords are allowed to use a temporary contract more often than once. A fixed contract for tenants that has our preference... therefore gets even further out of sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u16	I was a little challenged by Mr Rietkerk of the CDA. He talked about reducing the charges for tenants, but in the meantime those tenants are also paying for the storage of renewable energy, the ODE, and all kinds of other energy taxes that make this so-called sustainability, which turns out to be incredibly expensive, payable. If we add together what all these sustainability and climate measures are going to cost, what the tenant is going to feel left or right in his wallet, can Mr Rietkerk indicate what that advantage is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u17	As you know, the CDA is in favour of abolishing the landlord's tax. But apart from not abolishing the landlord's tax, I have heard in practice in the past few years in neighbourhoods that the tenants, in consultation with the housing corporations and the rental associations, are the tenants who want to turn it in themselves: please invest in sustainability. We see the rents go up inflatoir-plus and the houses are a bit drafty. Then invest in it, do energy investments separately from the charges for the tenants so that the rent costs do not eventually increase but remain the same. And that's a win for the tenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u18	But these investments also have to be paid for. They are often paid out of general funds or through levies. On another side, via income tax or in another way, they come again at the expense of the tenant. In the end, it is the citizen who pays the bill for this type of investment. In addition, I hope that the President will allow me to give a small explanation of this, and there is often an increase in rent when there are such interventions. And not all tenants agree to it. If a certain percentage of tenants agree, such measures shall be taken. Can Mr Rietkerk state on which he bases it that the tenants really want to do so? Isn't it especially something that the corporations impose on the tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u19	It's true it's asking for an investment, but it's a pre-investment to leave the Earth better than you find it now. If there is a general tax measure, such as the landlord's tax, this means that the broadest shoulders, which can bear the toughest burdens, also for tenants who often have less broad shoulders... That investment can simply be defended as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u20	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u21	It is therefore mainly about Atlas, who must carry the globe of the world on his shoulders. That is what the climate story is about, and not so much about the advantage for the tenants, because that advantage is not really nominal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u22	I asked the Minister the question. We really disagree. I speak on the basis of the facts I know. You seem to have other facts. I ask the Minister whether the image of the CDA is an image that is supported by facts and not by, say, quotes. Mr. Chairman. There is evidence that these three-year contracts, because that's what I was talking about, lead to more offers. We do see that temporary contracts replace the fixed leases. I also agree with Mr Pijlman's view that this is the advantage of being behind the speaker's chair a little later on about the development of rents in a general sense and the risk of judicialisation. For the sake of clarity, I refer to that. Mr. Chairman. I will end with the same word as Mr Talsma of the Christian Union Group: the dilemma. Once again, the CDA Group welcomes the amended Housing Act cum suis. However, we ask the Minister to present a certain solution in this debate, so that the extension of leases from two to three years before the introduction of the law on 1 January 2022 will be discussed again, by the way, without prejudice to the position of the House of Representatives. We look forward to the Prime Minister's first-term replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate until later today, in the afternoon.
