ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35961, Amendment of the Public Health Act to adapt the temporary rules on the use of corona tickets in non-essential retail and non-essential services in public places.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity offered by your Chamber to handle this bill smoothly. Maybe I could make a few comments in advance? Last week, I believe, we spent 16 hours together in this beautiful room, and then we debated the whole corona dossier in width. I would also like to stress for this reason that it is important that this week it should really be a matter of the law. That is what your Members have already said. In addition, I would like to deal first with the why of the law. Then I come to the question of demarcation and proportionality, on which many questions have been asked. The third block deals with implementation and enforcement. Perhaps after that there will be time for a small block with a number of topical issues, which may have been less on the agenda last week. In this context, I would mention the omikron variant and the travel measures that suit it, the booster and nursing homes. That actually concerns more coverage of the last few days, so I shall briefly consider that. But I really do ask you to understand that as briefly as possible, because tomorrow I will be able to discuss the same again on the other side. Of course I like to do that, but somewhere between all the debates you have to try to get a bit of work done. That's kind of nice, too. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the why. I think that's important. Much has been said about this and many questions have been asked about it, including very fundamental questions. I'd like to touch them anyway, because I think it's important to do so. Anyone who says that this bill is of course not the silver bullet that is going to help us put the pandemic behind us is, of course, quite right. Especially since there is now a very high risk of infection and a very high level of infection, the added value of broadening the corona tickets to the retail sector is not so great that you say: this is going to make the difference between day and night. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't have this in our toolbox, too. We are actually doing this for the reason that Mr Van der Voort has mentioned, namely that you also want to proactively add instruments to your toolbox so that it can actually be of use later this winter, also as an alternative to measures that otherwise act much harder. I'll get back to you in a minute. This is just an example of something proactively wanting to add to the toolbox. In fact, I think we can use it in the short term as an addition to the existing instruments. This legislative proposal is therefore only about broadening to a number of sectors: non-essential services and non-essential retailing. And again, at a very high level of contamination as we are experiencing it, that is only a limited instrument. Nor is it the instrument by which we could actually significantly reduce the number of infections. What does that corona pass do anyway? It's good to think about that. That corona passes help to be safer in groups. Safer! So not completely safe, not without risk, but safer! That's why we're using those corona tickets. This is about the 3G corona admission ticket. The corona admission certificate 3G means: you come in when you are vaccinated, if you are cured or if you have been tested. That's 3G. And what is the effectiveness of that? That's what RIVM modeled for us. That says: if you were to stop 3G and maintain all the measures you had, then you have to assume that the number of infections increases by 59%. Then you'll think, "But how is that possible?" Well, then the expectation is that with the same mix of activities inside, with the same composition to people inside, with the same infection pressure outside.. so everything is the same, except for the corona tickets... get more infections on location. This is only about modelling the on-site infections. 59% more, based on the effectiveness of, among other things, vaccination. A number of questions have been asked about this by Mr Nicolaï, whom I would like to name immediately at the outset. He asked, "What about vaccine effectiveness?" Well, with the vaccine effectiveness...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u4	There's been an interruption by Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u5	The minister's talking about RIVM. It's got modules. Something's gonna roll out of that. I have already mentioned this, but it is in fact not transparent and incomprehensible. My question to the Minister is: can these models be released on which they are based? It's just a black box. We do not have such good experiences with RIVM models, including the nitrogen dossier. So the question to the Minister is concrete: will the Minister indicate what these models are based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u6	That kind of depends on which models you're talking about. As regards vaccine effectiveness, an annex has been added to the 130th opinion. That's about the effectiveness of the corona tickets. It lists the effectiveness of vaccines. The latest known figures on vaccine efficacy against transmission are based on 50%. The research on which this is based is also mentioned. The last figure on vaccine effectiveness against infection is 70%. This is the most recent estimate based on the test data of CoronIT, the GGD's registration system. The appendix to the modelling report simply contains the justification on the basis of which studies one makes the statements one makes and the calculations one makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u7	I will ask a brief question, Mr President. Is the Minister prepared to give the Chamber what goes into that model and what comes out of it? I am talking not only about the VE codes, but also about the number of infections. How are these recorded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u8	That's pretty simple. Because you already know that. On the coronadashboard all numbers are completely transparent. The source of all numbers is also provided there. In the case of modelling, such as the modelling study on the application of the corona access certificate, as an annex to the 130th OMT opinion, the justification for the modelling report shall include the studies used. So you already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u9	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u10	That's a lot of information. The point is: there is a model and there is something going on. There's numbers going in, or whatever. They're just entering hard data. Which hard data goes in and which hard data goes out? In my view, all this is not so difficult and I think it should be available. So again the question: will the Minister give it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u11	You already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u12	Then I'm talking purely about the technical information. What goes into data and what comes out of data?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u13	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u14	What goes in what and what goes in what? Of course, it depends entirely on which model it concerns. Everything about the responsibility for the models can be found in the letters to the Chamber, on the website of the RIVM and on coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u15	I have a comment to make to the Minister. The minister said, let's stick to today's bill. But now the Minister is talking about what will happen if we abolish 3G corona tickets, which means that we will get 59% more infections. But the abolition of the corona ticket is not on the agenda today. What is on the agenda is what the effects of enlargement are. Maybe it can work both ways, and we don't have to dwell on what happens if we abolish 3G. That's not on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u16	Quite rightly, and I hope that Mr Janssen will continue to discipline me this afternoon, because that will help, I think. I thought Mr Nicolaï had asked rather fundamental questions: what is the added value of working with corona tickets, given the questions you might have about decreasing vaccine effectiveness? That's what I'm getting at. That is quite comprehensively modeled by RIVM. It is attached to the 130th OMT opinion. In doing so, RIVM assumes a vaccine effectiveness against transmission of 50% and a vaccine effectiveness against infection of 70%. That is the communist opinio in all the effectiveness studies, many dozens of which also want to give a different cut of reality. But this is what you can assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u17	I have two questions. It's not about what happens if we abolish 3G. I would just like the Minister to state how the application of Article 58ra (2) (a) is going. It says that, on the basis of evidence of vaccination, it can be established that it has a similar risk of transmission of the virus. That is the question we need to address. If you have a vaccination certificate, how much protection do you have against transfer, in proportion to when you've been tested and admitted? I would like the Minister to answer that question, and he should not come up with a whole story about a modelling report again. That's one. The second is that it is right for the Minister to say that there are data on that modelling report. That was also the appendix I referred to. Those data were used in the modelling that the Minister is talking about. He'll point to the 70%. That 70% is based on old figures and on my question I am going to get an answer from the Minister. However, it also states, for example, that the test sensitivity of the antigen test used is 59%. I asked the Minister: what about those antigen tests and what about their sensitivity? I can't get an answer to that. I am referred to 130 pages of a European document and it is said: yes, there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u19	...the tests are in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u20	Your question is clear, Mr Nicolaï. You asked your question. I think it's clear. I give the floor to the Minister to answer. And if it is not complete, you will have a second chance with your question. Otherwise, it's gonna be too long an interruption. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u21	No, clear. I thought you were looking for what actually is the effectiveness of vaccination, not only against hospitalization which is obviously super-high.... but also against infection and transmission. Well, there's 70% efficacy against infection and 50% against transmission. That makes it possible to say that if you sit with just vaccinees, the risk of infection at such a location will be much lower and that the chance of subsequent contamination, namely at home, when the people of that location go home, is also much lower. The people who come in with a negative test come in without virus, but of course they are more likely than the vaccinees to walk out with the virus. That is also evident in the modelling report. That's especially true when the infection rate is high outside. This means that this modelling report shows that 2G is even safer than 3G. But that's not what we're talking about today. We're talking about 3G today. That is why I also mention the statement contained in the modelling report. Suppose you didn't use it, and you'd get together the same way. Then you have to assume that the number of infections increases by 59%. This underpins the argument that corona access tickets can contribute to meeting safer in large groups, and that is what this bill is intended for. It is intended to allow us, in a winter in which the virus is not gone, in which we have not all been vaccinated and in which a large number of people are still vulnerable to a corona infection, to pass through winter as openly and as safely as possible. That is the essence of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u22	The Minister doesn't understand me or he won't give me the answer. I really read that the law says that the vaccination certificate must contain a similar risk of transmission of the virus. And then it's not at all a question of whether an unvaccinated person might be more likely to end up in the hospital. The next item is the question: what is the effectiveness of vaccination? That's the only question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u23	I just answered that question three times. The effectiveness of vaccination is high, i.e. over 90% against hospitalisation, 70% against infection and 50% against transmission. This means that vaccinees, when they meet in groups, are substantially better protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u24	Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u25	Then, chairman, I'm going to ask the other one. In short, the corona access card helps us get together safer. It is not primarily a control instrument. I say this in the direction of Mr Karakus, who asked for it. It is not primarily a control tool if it reduces the number of corona infections. It is actually more of a tool to get through winter as openly and as safely as possible, given the fact that there are corona infections. That also means that I look fundamentally different than Mr Van Schaijk... eh, Van Schalk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u27	Schal. Of course, it is only the first time that we have debated each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u28	Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u29	Mr Schalk. Excuse me. But I am fundamentally opposed to the use of the corona tickets, and with him a number of others, such as Mr Frentrop. I think it is a good thing to check this out, because it is fundamental objections that are raised with firm words both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber by the SGP Group and beyond. First of all, is there not an unjustified distinction here? It affects Article 1 of the Constitution. That is what Mr Schalk said about this. I do not think it affects Article 1 of the Constitution, at least not that it is a collision that would prevent the use of corona tickets. This is a justified distinction, namely between those for whom it is safer and those for whom it is less safe to get together. Yes, but it does affect our fundamental rights, doesn't it? Yes, but these fundamental rights are, of course, secondary. Of course, they collide more often. It is then up to the legislator to make a choice in this clash of fundamental rights. Can't I check out a few of them with you? Mrs De Bruijn mentioned Rule 22. That is the task of the government to do everything in its power to protect human health. That's one element. The second element is, for example, Article 14, the right of ownership. That is quite the issue here, in many different ways by the way. You could say, as an entrepreneur, that the use of corona admissions means that I am losing my business, and so it is an infringement of Article 14 of the Constitution. It's a violation of property rights. You can also say: the use of corona tickets allows me to stay open longer or less quickly close at the time of infection. This in turn helps to reduce the infringement of property rights. This also plays a role in the weighting of proportionality. I'll get to that in a minute. You can say from the point of view of the visitor: I believe that corona tickets are a restriction on my freedoms. But if that means that this entrepreneur has to take less drastic measures in his own home, which makes his business more exploitable, then it is, in turn, a lesser violation of constitutional freedom in relation to property law. That, of course, must also be taken into account. In short, when weighing fundamental rights, we must assume that there may be a collision. Then it is up to the legislator to make an appropriate choice. This brings me to perhaps a heavier qualification that is being used. This qualification is not only used by Mr Schalk, certainly not, but also by others. They often do this when it comes to 2G, but also when it comes to the corona tickets at all. That's the word: division. As much as I don't agree with it, of course it affects me. Polarization, division. I think it is up to every politician, every minister, to want exactly the opposite of polarization and division in society. At the same time, I believe that, in this case, it is impossible to link this accusation to the use of this measure. In a way, you could say: it simply removes a division. A 3G application makes it possible for vaccinees and unvaccinators to be together in a safer way. You can say: it makes people who otherwise do not dare to go out on the streets because they are afraid to get infected, that in a slightly safer environment they may have a little more courage to go out. So it also removes a dichotomy. In addition, I think we have to face the fact that the real division is, of course, a different one at the moment. Unfortunately, with such an enormous burden on hospitals, the real division is currently the division between the people for whom and for whom there is no place in the hospital anymore. That is, of course, the real division we are dealing with. All the measures that we take, which some people regard as polarizing, are aimed precisely at putting this division behind us as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u30	I thank the Minister, of course, for this comprehensive answer. I think we are in complete agreement on two elements. I do not say in any way to the government: I think you are calling for polarisation. The government doesn't. That happens in society, but it does have a cause. It is, of course, in that which we all struggle with. That's what the minister does as much as we do. The second. I believe that we are in complete agreement that fundamental rights can be barrened. It is indeed up to the government to make a choice at some point. In the end, perhaps a judge is going to decide on this. I hope this is not necessary. That's what we all submit to. However, it is up to political parties in this Chamber to review what the government submits to that Constitution. That's what we're trying to do here in this First Chamber. So you get a weighting effect. Can the Minister follow that the weighting effect for the parties in this Chamber is exactly different from that for the one who proposed the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u31	Well, I notice that there are also parties that come to a weighting in this way. I just don't share that weighting. It is often about Article 11, the inviolability of the integrity of one's own body. I also believe that no fundamental right is absolute, especially if the exercise of fundamental rights jeopardises other people's fundamental rights. That is particularly true of Article 11, I think, in all its sharpness and intensity. Half of the total number of hospitalisations is for people who have not been vaccinated. Of the number of ic-recordings, that's about 70%. Imagine if we lived in a country where 100% of the people had been vaccinated. The hospitals would be half less busy and the ic's 70%. The uncomfortable truth we cannot ignore is that at the moment we would not have had a debate on the scaling-down of planned care, not a debate on the scaling-up of not only hip and knee surgery, but also cancer surgery. Delays can take years to live. It's not easy to say that out loud, but it is. That is the uncomfortable truth of the way the covid pandemic is now pressing on hospitals. And yes, the uncomfortable truth is that this would not have been the case if everyone had been vaccinated. Thus we see that the exercise of the fundamental right, Article 11, is now compromising the inviolability of the integrity of one's own body and deriving from it the right not to take a vaccine, namely the right of others to have access to public health. In the light of Article 22, that the government orders to do everything in the interests of our public health is an uncomfortable truth, which must also be involved in all conversations with non-vaccines. Do you have the right at the end of the day not to want to be vaccinated? My answer to that is yes. That right exists, but not until after you have had the conversation with yourself which means exercising that right for others. I think we should have that conversation with much more urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u32	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u33	Freedom never comes without responsibility to properly shape and content that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u34	Thank you. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u35	Again, something we agree on. That balance between freedom and responsibility is absolutely there. But it's also an uncomfortable truth that we said a few weeks ago that the number of vaccinees in the hospitals was about 20%. Now it's almost 50%. I don't know what it's like in three or four weeks. It is also an uncomfortable truth, and I would like to mention to her that we may have gotten into that situation by letting go of the measures that brought a certain responsibility to everyone, for example the 1.5 metres, at an early stage. You can talk to each other about that for hours. I don't think we're gonna do that today. The President will not allow that and rightly so. But my question remains, also with regard to the uncomfortable truths that have been appointed: can you ultimately say that the fundamental rights of those who have not been vaccinated are more severely affected than the fundamental rights of those who have been vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u36	I don't think that can be said anymore. I do not think it can be said anymore for the simple reason that the people who are not vaccinated are a very small group, just over 11% of the 18-plussers are unvaccinated people using half the hospital beds and 70% on the ic occupation. This means that we have at present had to make care less accessible to all Dutch people in order to meet the scaling-up requirements. So for all Dutch people care has become less accessible, which would not have been the case if everyone had been vaccinated. Those are the facts. That's what I named an uncomfortable truth that really needs to be involved in that conversation. In doing so, I dare say that everyone's rights are now being more limited in order to allow those who do not want to be vaccinated to exercise the right not to have to be vaccinated. So for the sake of the exercise of Article 11 by 11% of the population, the rights of all Dutch people are currently restricted. I think you can put it so sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u37	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u38	I'm really wondering if that way you're not putting a huge debt on a group of people who are very diverse. Some of those 11% cannot, or should not, be vaccinated and some cannot, because they have conscience concerns. I very much agree with the Minister, and I commend him for emphasising that right so far. From my point of view, wouldn't it help if we could get that responsibility more from all the Dutch, including that 11% group, with perhaps a little more confidence in it instead of the urge and the compulsion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u39	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u40	I do not agree that this proposal would involve compulsion and urge. I can imagine that, particularly in the case of 2G, you will see that there is a strong incentive there. But even so, I say that the bill exists because we want to get through winter as openly as possible and as safely as possible. With regard to the weighting of the price linked to Article 11 and the space we want to give the 11% to exercise the freedom of Article 11, I think that price is now becoming very high. I also think that this price should be included in the conversations we have with people who have not been vaccinated. There's a whole, very, very small group that really can't be vaccinated for medical reasons. There's a slightly larger group that thinks it can't be vaccinated. We need to help them overcome their doubts, and we will do everything we can to help them. There is a larger group that does not want to be vaccinated for conscientious objection and therefore chooses not to be vaccinated. I would really ask that group to reconsider these concerns of conscience and to involve the other elements, which can also bring you into conscience, in that conversation with themselves. In addition, there is a group, as Mr Otten also pointed out, which denies the existence of corona and the importance of vaccination. That's a whole different kind of group. Unfortunately, we encounter too many of those last two groups in the hospital, even with great regret. That's very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u41	Thank you. I assume, Minister, that we have already dealt with part of the question "why this law" - your first subject. Mr Otten on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u42	Yeah, at this point. I just heard the minister say that about 11% have not been vaccinated. Yesterday, in preparation for this debate, I analysed all these figures. You'll see it's about that number. A very large group is 18 to 30 years old. They are not in the hospital, because they are not so susceptible to it. What I understand from the medical angle is, after all, the group between 50 and 70 years old that is now in the hospital. A medic told me they're also yoga mothers who don't believe in it. Can the Minister give us any indication of where the group that is so deeply in denial is in the process of keeping people off the vaccinations all day long? Is that a particular cohort? Is it a certain age?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u43	I can say something about the characteristics. We now know quite well and quite exactly where they live by zip code. We also know pretty well what the reasons are for not being vaccinated. I'll try to sketch that well and nuanced. They are the major cities in particular; Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague are at the top. Within these large cities it is the old city districts with many migrants. In addition, they are the Biblebelt-municipalities. In this sum, the numbers are more often lower educated and people who are already looking at the government with some suspicion. Sometimes it is also people who cannot be easily achieved with public sector information at all because they are not powerful in the language or because the group in which they are, quite different information than they could read back in the national government leaflets. It's very typical. I live near the Afrikaanderwijk on Rotterdam-Zuid. On the market you can actually find the GGD every Wednesday and every Saturday or a group of general practitioners who appeal to people. You can, even after all these months of campaigns, really incredibly intensified those campaigns are done in 11 languages by now, and still meet people who say, "Really? I thought I shouldn't be vaccinated at all when I was pregnant."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u44	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u45	So that kind of information doesn't always reach the group of people you really need to reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u46	Okay, I get that. So that is also partly a matter of not getting the message. What is the Minister's estimate that the real hard core is spreading all kinds of stories all day long and that vaccination is absolutely the worst thing in the world? That's not 11%, is it? I think that group is much smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u47	No, definitely not. I know what you mean. 11.3% didn't take a shot at all. I think today, this afternoon, the figure will be 88.7%. 88.7% of the 18-plussers at least took the first shot. Then you could say that at least they have overcome their doubt. What we know from the normal national vaccination programme is that somewhere between 93% and 95% the counter usually stops with regard to child vaccinations. That means that we really still have a few percentage points to win. Some of those who will not be vaccinated are conscientious objectors, as Mr Schalk has just explained, and some of them simply refuse. That's not just in the reformatorical angle. On the contrary. Those are also, in part, people who believe very much in alternative treatments and so on and people from the anthroposophical corner, who really do not want anything to do with vaccines. A small part is what you could call "total denier," "total wappie." That's a small part, so there's still a percentage to be won and that's what we really want to do. Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u48	Thank you. We're in Rotterdam anyway, so Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I think we should avoid having another debate last week. I do tend to, because we also have points in the area of trust and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u51	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u52	It's about this bill. My question is very simple. Why are we taking action? This is to prevent the hospitals from filling up and to reduce the pressure on care, thus making care accessible to other people in this country. That is our objective. My question was very simple: what is the effect, what does this package of measures contribute to? I didn't talk about combat. I talked about spreading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u53	This law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u54	Maybe I can get a concrete answer to that, because that is what we are going to judge this bill on as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u55	Yes. So what does it help? The OMT says in its opinion at the beginning of November: what you should want is that that corona access card, because we know that it gives a safer setting inside, is applied to a wider extent. Of course, it is not possible to calculate the epidemiological effect if you do it for that part of the retail sector and not for that part of the retail sector. The OMT says, "It's an instrument that works. Although 2G is more effective than 3G, 3G also works and so you need to broaden its deployment." What is the epidemiological expectation you may have? You can only calculate it against a zero situation, where you would not do so in the same situation, so you would not use a corona pass at all. Then the OMT comes to a sum of 59% of faster spread, so a higher number of infections at such a same location in case you wouldn't use corona tickets at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u56	Now we're gonna repeat ourselves, I have the idea. That question had already been answered and we have already heard these numbers. I'm going to ask you to move on now, perhaps to another chapter. Do you have an answer with this, Mr. Karakus? Is this the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u57	Again, my question is very simple: what are we going to say to these people? If you stick to the measures, this means that people have better access to care. Is it days, is it a year, is it month? And what are we going to tell the health care providers? Those are just two specific questions I have. 'Cause that's what I think it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u58	The first thing I would tell healthcare professionals and at all to people who ask "what does it help?', is the story of Mr Van der Voort. There's nowhere to be found any measure in the toolbox that's really gonna help us bring down. What does this measure help us with? The fact is that the virus is not gone this winter, that we will not all be protected from the virus this winter and that we actually want to go through winter more openly than last winter. That's why the corona tickets are helping. We couldn't do that last year. We can do that now. Applying them widely helps you to be as open and safe as possible through winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u59	And the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u60	I believe that this was the answer to both questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u61	Are we going to the delineation of the law now, Minister? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u62	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u63	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u64	I did not satisfy Mr Karakus. That's what I'm charging myself for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u65	I'm sure we'll see him again. That's what I'm relying on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u66	I'm gonna try to make him happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u67	You're going to the delineation of the law, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u68	Yes. The delineation. Many questions of proportionality have been asked and I will answer them as best I can. Mr Schalk: Can the Minister provide an overview of what is essential and non-essential retail and services? Others asked the same question. The first thing I would like to say about this is that the words 'essential' and 'non-essential' call for all kinds of wrong associations. Because people belong to it "important" and "non-important." "Oh, so if I'm not called essential, I guess I'm not important." That's not true. We have only found no better words than "essential" and "nonessential." It's actually the type of store where you don't come for your daily necessities. That's the delineation. We will, of course, describe this as precisely as possible in the ministerial arrangement. Mr Schalk asked whether this bill included religious or philosophical activities. The answer is no. This CTB will not apply to mental care or spiritual services. The SP rightly asked, I think, what are the measures already in place for these sectors at the moment. That also offers a picture of how fast things can go. We would, of course, have wanted to introduce this measure in a situation where we did not have to do so many other measures for those sectors, where the broadening of the CTB could actually be an alternative to using the 1.5 metres, or other measures within which the entrepreneur is much more obstructive. Well, that just didn't turn out to be possible. Given the pressure on care, we had to take firm measures to reduce the rate of infection. This is not a replacement in the short term. It may be a supplement, but in the short term it is not a replacement. At present, the non-essential retail sector is closed between 5 p.m. and 5 p.m. There is a visitor standard of one person per 5 square meters, to ensure that the 1.5 meters can be maintained. So there's the 1.5 meter. And there's a duty of mouth cap for visitors. At the same time, there is also an obligation to take hygiene measures. Those are all the obligations for the non-essential retail sector at the moment. This law only allows you to apply the corona tickets to the non-essential retail sector. Its actual application may at any time replace one or more of the measures in question. But then it is good to zoom in on the amendment that has been tabled, the Bikker/De Vries amendment. That is what Mr Janssen is asking for: how should we see the Bikker/De Vries amendment in the light of the breadth of application and also in the sense of proportionality? There's a proportionality mission in the bill anyway. One could say that even without that amendment, the proportionality mission always applied in the application of measures, namely that you always have to take those measures that, in domestic terms, affect the virus, but the society as little as possible. We must also be able to argue to you in any measure, to explain to you that this was indeed the least far-reaching road to the goal. That is what we will always have to do, with every ministerial arrangement. This amendment adds to that proportionality mandate that if CTBs are used in retailing, but there is a possibility to adopt a more proportionate measure, then choose that more proportionate measure. We need to make that practical. Suppose, you could say it's a very good idea to ask big stores for those corona tickets. Why would you ask for the museums and not for the Ikea? That's not so good to explain at all. It is therefore quite logical to ask for the corona tickets for larger shops. But for small shops, you know that there will be an enforcement mission that can also be a heavy burden on small entrepreneurs. And so this amendment makes it necessary to ask yourself, when establishing that measure, whether it could also provide an alternative for small entrepreneurs in the form of 1.5 metres, a square meter standard, a visitor standard or in the form of mouth caps. Well, in the current situation that is not a question, because the rate of infection is sky high, so at the moment we cannot use this as an alternative. But at some point, of course, the question arises as to whether you can use it as an alternative. Then you have to weigh up the proportionality of whether it is strictly necessary in this situation too. Or is a proportionate package of measures the more proportionate solution to this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u69	This touches a little on my remark that we actually had two thoughts when this bill was sent to the Chamber. At that time, the measures applied on 13 November. And as I said, it was actually meant to be a management measure after three December, at least that is how I understood it. By now we live in a different time, and then the question is whether it is an en-en-en-en-en, so both 1.5 meters, and a limitation of the number of visitors, and of five to five close and a mouth cap and also at the entrance show your corona admission ticket? Or does the Minister say that this is going to be a lot in the plus? So what is the added value? Because I think it was meant as a replacement, not as a plus on the measures already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u70	Mr Janssen simply describes it as it is: it was indeed intended to use it as an alternative to measures which, in the opinion of the cabinet, are more substantial for the retail sector, simply because it is very difficult to run a business at 1.5 metres. That is not the case for every case, but for a lot of things it is. But now we don't have that luxury. So by now, if you declared this bill applicable, it would be added. So that is really up to us to make that weighting for which type of retailing it is and for which type of retailing it will not be proportionate. That is what we will do when we establish the ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u71	But that makes it extremely complicated to assess the effectiveness of this law at the moment. We should first of all know the ministerial arrangement in order to be able to consider as a Chamber the situation in which it is effective. This is also a matter of proportionality. So I find that very complicated. That also affects my question as to why this had the urgency it had. I understand this urgency when agreeing to the measures on 12 November when you say that it must take place on 3 December, because then it will be the replacement of the measures. But is that urgency given to it rather than still necessary? It is fine with me, we are standing here and I want to vote on it, but that is not the point. It's just as good for the interpretation, otherwise things are gonna get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u72	Mr Janssen is quite right about the background. The background to the initial urgency was indeed: you are trying to compile a package from new instruments after the situation of reducing the number of infections and hospitalisations. But, of course, that was the situation of suit bit him a little bit a month ago, but that is just not the real situation today. You gotta be honest with me there. The point that Mr Van der Voort raised, also raised by the OMT, is still valid: make sure that your instrument box is filled when you need instruments. That is not easy at all, because when arguing the need for these instruments you will always ask about their proportionality, which is difficult to assess in the context of that moment, because it is about instruments that you may need later. In this case, I think we should weigh: this would be an additional tool in the toolbox for now. When applying that instrument, the proportionality weighting that you need to make applies again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u73	Finally, Mr Janssen
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u74	What type of retail could you do instead of existing measures and what type of retail could you do on top of them? Over and over again, when establishing the scheme, we will have to make and underpin the weighting of proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u75	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u76	Can I summarize it briefly as follows otherwise, perhaps, in the rest of his speech, the Minister can comment on it, which cannot be expected to be a plus for the smaller retail sector on the measures already in place by 19 December?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u77	That is also a very short summary. Because if I say yes to that, then maybe too much can be read into what I want to do. What I want to do when this bill is adopted is to make the weighting for which type of retail and for which type of non-essential service it is actually in this context of added value at the moment. This is contained in an arrangement, which I will argue, and that is what this regulation is for, because you can therefore assess whether we have made that weighting in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u78	Actually, I had a clarification question. In my contribution, I asked what the criteria will be for determining the ministerial arrangement. Is it true that that is the area, size of the store or retail? Did I hear that correctly and understood? Is that the only one or are there several considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u79	Soon when we have the whole arsenal of possibilities for corona tickets, there will be criteria on two axes, namely: what is the infection pressure outside and what is the risk setting inside. As the infection pressure increases, it makes more sense to get more out of the coffin. And as the risk setting is higher inside, it also makes more sense to get more out of the box. At high infection pressure and high risk setting inside you probably want to use 2G. If that is less, because the infection pressure is lower outside or because the risk setting inside is less risky, you can do with 3G. If it is very small, you can even use alternatives to the corona ticket at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u80	I just wanted to focus on this law anyway. This law states, on the one hand, that we are dealing with the possibility of using the CTB or the 1.5 metres, as a result of the amendment. That's what you're looking for. If you choose, in the complex of measures, to use this law, what are the considerations within the retail trade for which choice you make for one or the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u81	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u82	In the Lower House I mentioned a number of elements. One is the element that you yourself call the size of the shop, and thus the likelihood that there would be an infection behind the door, given the amount of people coming over there. That is one consideration. A second consideration can also be a geographical one: to what extent is the infection spread across the country or do we see it playing very strongly in a number of regions? In the latter case, you should also be able to define geographically. A third delineation could be a sectoral one, so you're saying that part of the non-essential retail trade doesn't involve dogs, so you don't suffer from infection at all. Then you don't have to include that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u83	I would ask the Minister to clarify something. I listened very carefully and he actually says he's asking for something extra for his toolbox. At a toy store, he can now wash his hands and prescribe a mouth cap as general measures, but he wants to be able to balance now not to do 1.5 metres, but to say that people who have not been vaccinated should not enter the toy store. That's what you want to be able to do. Is that really what you're looking for from us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u84	Of course, not with this bill, because this is about 3G, so you want everyone to be able to access that toy store safely. The question is how to realize that safe setting behind the front door of the toy store. Do you have enough of the 1.5 meters or 1.5 meters plus mouth cap or 1.5 meters plus mouth cap plus visitor standard? Or is it really of added value to use the corona ticket for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u85	Can I have one more time, Mr. Chairman, so I can really get this straight? Let's say someone goes to the toy store that hasn't been vaccinated, but has natural resistance, or has been ill and is otherwise a very healthy person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u86	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u87	You have the opportunity to say: 1.5 meters, mouth cap and so on, and I want this with you. Instead of the 1.5 meters you can say that the gentleman or the lady with the natural defences cannot enter that store, because that is what you find proportional. That's what you want to be able to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u88	No, not in the case of this bill. That is the article to which Mr Nicolaï refers. It equalizes the protection you've built up by vaccination, which you've built up by being cured and not contributing to the spread because you've been tested negative. Of course, there are differences. It is at most aligned in the law, but it is not quite the same in biological practice. This bill deals with them equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u89	Thank you. Do we go to the execution and enforcement, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u90	I still have a few questions of proportionality. I'd still like to check it out. I want to see if I've answered it properly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u91	The Minister had begun to say that he was going to answer my questions, but I'm afraid those answers have been bogged down in the first block. Or are those answers still coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u92	You have asked a lot of questions, so there will certainly be answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u93	At the end of the answer, let's see if all the questions have been answered. The minister isn't ready yet. Minister, are we nearing implementation and enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u94	No. I'm just checking to see if I need to answer a few more questions. Mr Van der Voort asked whether I agree that the use of the CTB should always be combined with other measures, with measures from other categories. That should not necessarily be the case, but it will often be the case. So you're hoping that at some point it might be an alternative to the 1.5 meters, but in the beginning it certainly won't be. And later on it is of course very good to still say: we keep that mouth cover for a while; we don't do that for a while. Can the Minister make it clear when this will be withdrawn? That is a question from the SGP. Here's what you're gonna do. Now you add the instrument to the toolbox and per ministerial control you turn it on or off and also determine the width of the application range. In any ministerial arrangement, the cabinet will have to argue why that is a right choice, why that is a right commitment and why that is also a proportionate and subsidiary commitment of measures. If that is not the case anymore, you will probably no longer be enthusiastic about the arrangements we are proposing. Every time the law is extended, so every three months, we have to justify why we still want this instrument in the toolbox at all. Here too, you can follow and assess our proportionality weighting. So that's how it works in the system. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have answered the questions as they have been asked and indeed I am going to the implementation and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u95	Thank you for the delineation. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u96	First of all, I would like to emphasise what Mr Karakus and Mr Van Gurp have quite rightly said. That is that the credibility of legislation, the belief in measures and the acceptance of measures ultimately depend on their explainability, so on the answer to the question of why something is actually necessary, but also on their enforcement. In a measure which is not maintained, confidence is quickly lost. That does not make any sense. What I would like to do first of all is to take a look at the latest state of play with regard to the intensification of enforcement and also with regard to its effectiveness. If Mr Grapperhaus had been here, he would have said: yes, enforcement, very important, but it starts with compliance, of course. This compliance will be strengthened if there is proper control. And that control will be much better if there is proper enforcement of that control. It's in that order. So the very first thing you can expect from people is that they just want to contribute themselves and keep things as well as possible. Then we can expect the entrepreneurs to check them out. And from the municipalities we can expect them to maintain. If you look at the numbers, we can see it's improving. But it's not enough, I'll say right away. We have a weekly investigation into the enforcement of the QR code. The latest survey on all sectors and locations on 15 and 16 November shows that at 22% of the locations where it should be, that QR code is not requested. So that's not where the QR code is asked for at all. In 30% of the cases the QR code is requested, you have to show it but it is not actually properly scanned. In 36% of cases, the QR code is scanned and an ID is also requested. In 12% of cases only scanned. In short, you could say: in 80% of the cases you run into the question "show your QR code" and in 20% of the cases you don't. That's not good enough. It is important to note that in those cases where your ID is not checked, there is actually only half a check of the QR code. That's not conclusive enough. So we need to increase that percentage. I have to say, if you look at the different sectors, you can see that a number of sectors are doing very well. There the control is very tight and therefore little enforcement needs to be done. To what extent is enforcement taking place? We see an increase in the number of charges under penalty payments and the number of closures. In the last week, 15 charges were paid under periodic penalty payments and seven companies closed down. I think this will help. If you know as an entrepreneur "when the municipality comes along, they mean it seriously and then my business can even close," then you are of course inclined to pay more attention. If the odds are zero, that doesn't help. Mr Karakus asked: how can we further strengthen enforcement? Are we making an enforcement plan now? I said first of all: enforcement is important. It's the closing piece, but it's important. In the context of enforcement, therefore, heavy sanctions are possible and they are also applied: warn and then close. In the context of control, it is good to support entrepreneurs to fill this in properly. Sometimes it is about information, but it is also about support. The Minister of JenV is actively discussing this with his colleagues in the Security Council: the mayors. In addition, the ministers of EZK and JenV are in talks with the sectors in order to achieve good control and enforcement plans. We also believe that this should be supported financially by entrepreneurs. Additional people may need to be deployed from enforcement, such as from the field of security guards and enforcers. Together we are currently looking at what is needed. I propose that I ask Mr Grapperhaus to inform you about this, as a result of your question and that of GroenLinks, and to highlight what is being done in addition to the 45 million that has already been used by the municipalities to promote control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u97	Thanks for the answer and thanks for the commitment to a plan. It's not just about enforcement. I think we agree that compliance is the most important thing. Enforcement can also mean that you friendlyly address people on the street: you do not have your mouth cap on. Or: you don't keep your distance. That's also a form of behavior. So that kind of thing, compliance, control and enforcement, should, as it were, come back into one plan. How are we gonna do that? On the one hand, we stimulate behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u98	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u99	How are we gonna check and how are we gonna maintain? So I'm waiting for the Minister's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u100	Let us be very precise, otherwise you would expect more from Mr Grapperhaus than he intended to do. We have already made 45 million available to the municipalities, which are thus stepping up their own municipal enforcement. They also make agreements with sports associations and so on. Mr Grapperhaus and Mr EZK's colleagues are discussing the question with the various sectors: how can we, then, strengthen control rather than enforcement? Well, say those sectors, it would be a great help if we were also supported financially. We're prepared to do that as a cabinet. So with the sectors we come up with plans to step up control. That's what I'm saying. That conversation's going on right now. We would like to send that plan of control to the Chamber, to show: it is not just enforcement, it is also just strengthening control. What we want to see, of course, is that these compliance figures go up. We'll see about that in the last few weeks. So that's good, but it's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u101	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u102	I don't know if we're talking about the same plan. Again, I'm concerned that we're convinced of each other. I'm not interested in the financial resources. I asked for it, but it's not about the amount. Sometimes it is more efficient to use as little financial resources as possible. Attacking people sometimes has more effect than just pumping money into difficult things. Maintaining is also about the possibilities and the impossibilities. What about the legal base? Can we talk to people about it? Can we close things? Or can it be much smoother? I agree that it is most effectively designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u103	What are your questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u104	The question is: why can't there be a generic plan on those parts, which makes us believe that it's in good hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u105	I'm a little worried we're gonna do things about it. The 45 million has already been made available to the security regions. These security regions are putting that money in places that they themselves believe are the most necessary for enforcement. I am very willing to ask Grapperhaus to clarify what that is about and whether that is the most effective commitment. That's one element. The second element is added. We are dealing with these sectors on how they could strengthen their control. If these sectors say to us that they want to be helped financially, then we in our cabinet say that we are open to that. The latter leads to a new intervention, and I would like to explain to the Chamber what Mr Grapperhaus agrees on. So it's enforcement and control. The core is, of course, that you want to raise compliance rates. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u106	Just a quick question. I've heard a lot of good things that both ministries are going to do. I think it is very important that control and enforcement go up. In the previous debate, I asked the Minister of JenV to regularly inform the Chamber of the results. He couldn't agree to that. I'd appreciate it if you could do that. It's allowed in the monthly stand-of-business letter. I'd like to follow up on how well this is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u107	Actually, I get that. If he'd been standing here, I think he'd have said, "Let's do that." So I'd like to record with him the form in which this can be done. At the same time, we can respond to Mr Karakus' commitment. I'd really appreciate it if I could do it in the progress letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u108	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u109	This also responds to D66's and CDA's questions on whether we could also support entrepreneurs in the feasibility of this measure. So the answer to this is yes. We're having that conversation, and we're willing to support it financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u110	Then we get to varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u111	No, no, no, no. That's very hasty, Mr. Chairman. That's very hasty. But it's going fast; I'll share that with you. I'm a long way away anyway. Maybe we should grab the other implementation questions, because I think I have had most enforcement questions. Maybe we should grab the other execution questions. Mrs. Nanninga asked about the test capacity. Is that even enough? The G.D.D. is already at its max, isn't it? This is not about the GGD test capacity, but about the Test-for-Access test capacity. There's definitely room to test more. It must, of course, be able to breathe with the choices we make. If we make a choice for the closing of 5:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., as we have done, this obviously means a lot less test capacity, because then the whole nightlife is no longer in between. If there's more space in it, they'll need a lot more test capacity. That's how it breathes all the time. Right now, they're doing a lot less than they could do. The GGDs have scaled up considerably in their test capacity. In a number of regions it is still really on the tight side, but there is now a test capacity of 130,000. And the number of tests taken is starting to fall a little bit. Grosso mode is used between 80% and 85% of total built-up capacity. If there is friction, then this friction is mainly in the region. Another friction at the GGD is the speed at which you get through. In the morning between 8:00 and 8:01 a.m., on average, about 15,000 calls are made for a test staff meeting. So that's a huge boom every morning to make test appointments. The rest of the day it gets a little less, but that boom in the morning is still very difficult to handle. That's right. This simply increases the lead time too much. The GGD is doing everything in its power to further increase its test capacity and has of course already scaled up tremendously. There's a test capacity of about 130,000 tests a day. I think that is enough in the short term. To further strengthen compliance with the test advice, I also want to make self-tests part of the overall test landscape. With a positive test result, you always do the confirmation test at the GGD, but it helps if you make self-tests much more part of the width of the overall test landscape. At least it helps to further increase compliance with the advice to test for complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u112	I have a practical question about testing. In a message from the GGD West-Brabant I read the following: "In connection with the new measures, our vaccination site closes on Sunday 28 November and Monday 29 November at 5 pm." Is it true that the new measures will also close the testing and vaccination at 5 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u113	No, not at all. I saw that message, too. So I immediately asked what's going on there. This was a vaccination site on his Brabants, in a catering establishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u114	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u115	A new location had to be found there. That was the point. But I had a good time too, actually. I thought it was really Brabants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u116	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u117	Why are no free self-tests made available, so early the Party for Animals. That is what we are doing, namely through education. Higher education can order for free. Secondary education and primary education are subject to self-testing in order not to be made available. There are really millions of self-tests per week to not be available. In addition, free self-tests are available via the food bank and the Poverty Fund. Also through municipalities we make self-tests to not available. We are doing this particularly in those municipalities where there is a very large task in terms of increasing protection, because there is a low vaccination rate and a high level of infection. The only thing we can't do is not fill the shelves of the Etos. You understand that, of course. We try as much as possible not to make available to the groups that need the self-tests most. Mrs. Nanninga mentioned the serological test. I'm actually more excited about that than you said. I have also discussed this in detail with your colleague in the Lower House, Nicki Pouw-Verweij. She's on top of that every debate. That's right. I understand that, too. The point is this. We asked the OMT how we can incorporate serological tests into working with 3G, or later in working with 2G; that can of course also be done. At first, the following communication came back: that would actually be a good idea in terms of content, but for a number of reasons it is practically very difficult to implement. The first reason is the ability to draw blood. You have the serological rapid tests, but they're really not reliable enough. You can only use them at population level. So you need a good serological test. For that, you have to draw blood tubes. Blood extraction is a reserved operation, so you need a nurse for that, just for short. Of course we don't have those nurses left, because we needed them in many other places. So that makes the practical feasibility a little more difficult. Then there's a very technical thing in there. There are actually no good cut-off values for the antibody titres that you need to find in the blood taken. Mrs Pouw-Verweij had really studied it very carefully and said: yes, but in Israel, Switzerland and, I believe Romania, then? In any case, we have looked closely at Israel and Switzerland. In Israel they always do it in combination with a test result. So it's not just serological. In addition, they also have a PCR test. In Switzerland they are not very satisfied with the cut-off values they have chosen. They say: there is indeed no international standard, but this is what we choose. My appointment with Mrs Pouw-Verweij in the Lower House is that I want to do the same. I also want to implement this. It's just practically very complicated, but we're gonna do it. The question is how. Just give me a minute to figure out how to do it. Assume that at least it will only be possible on a small scale, especially at the beginning, because it just costs a lot of manpower that we don't have at the moment. To be honest, however complicated that may be, I agree with you on this point. We need to overcome those execution issues. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I've arrived at a number of different questions. I would like to answer them because they were not sufficiently addressed last week, because at that time it was even less topical. I'll start with Omikron, then I want to tell you about the boosters and finally I want to tell you about the situation in the nursing homes. Those are the three elements I would like to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u118	These are issues that are not on the agenda today, so I suggest that you do so as briefly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u120	After that, let's see if we haven't answered any pressing questions. We can do that first, by the way. If there are Members of Parliament who still have questions that have not been answered, we can do so by interrupting. Is that a good flight path?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u121	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u122	Then let's start with Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u123	I'm glad the Minister's putting it exactly the way it is. If we are voting on this law today, it must be clear that there is a similar chance of transmission of the virus if you are going to compare the person who took the test with the one who is currently vaccinated. So it's about the transmission of the virus. What recent figures does the Minister have at his disposal to comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u124	I think we need to go back to legal history with that term "comparable." When the cabinet proposed this law to the Chamber, it was initially a law that was about testing for access. When the First Chamber then treated him, it had become the Corona Access Cards Act, after vaccination and recovery had been added. That has everything to do with the discourse in which the law was established. That was at the time when the first thought development in Europe arose whether we should not work with a digital corona certificate. Those were therefore corona tickets that allowed both free travel in Europe and access again. Then there was an amendment stating as a condition that vaccine protection should be comparable to test protection. That was then. By now, we know about vaccine effectiveness that people who have been vaccinated or cured are much more protected when they come together in large groups, than people who come in with a negative test result. The reason for this is the following. You can walk in negative, so the chances are you'll have the virus with you when you come in. However, if you are in a situation where the transmission is not zero among vaccinees, but still present, you may have walked in without virus, but you run a much greater risk of walking out with the virus. This applies to the negative tests, but not to the people who have been protected by vaccination or who have been cured. They still have that opportunity, but it has been greatly reduced. How big is that reduction? 50% to the latest state of the investigation. As far as infection is concerned, that's 75%. The chance that you transfer the virus at home in your own circle because you gained it in the discotheque is much lower for vaccinees and cured people than for negative tested people. That is simply an uneven level of protection that one enjoys behind the port of the corona pass when applying 3G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u125	I'm afraid you'll say I'm interrupting too much later, but there's no answer to the question I asked. So this isn't another interruption. We're assuming the legal text. It's nice that you're pointing to legal history, but there's got to be a similar opportunity. What figures do you have? You said last week that you're assuming 75%. I showed today that according to the data in the appendix, it's 70%. Then I told you that 70% is based on old data. According to the figures of the Italian RIVM of September, it is indeed 70%-75%. But if you follow it, you can see that with the latest RIVM reports in Italy, it goes to 50% and even to 40%. I myself say to Mr Van Rooijen: for the elderly, it goes to 30%. What are you doing with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u126	First of all, I say beware of comparing investigations. I read all I get and my experience is that a lot of these differences in research results are explained by a difference in research design, a difference in the selection of the target group, a difference in research period or a difference in the epidemiological context in which the study was reduced, namely a high or low degree of infection. So I can't put the final numbers of RIVM and the final numbers of the Italian RIVM side by side. I can't do that. All institutes make this type of competition. We're assuming what RIVM's showing us. RIVM also identifies the source of the investigation. It is indeed 70% protection against infection and 50% protection against transmission. There are different outcomes around the world. It is also the case that vaccine effectiveness is reduced. But when it comes to the text of comparability, it was the other way around in its origins. I have just explained that. It was precisely about a similar protection that vaccinees would have compared to non-tests. That is how the amendment came into force. That's where the comparability between the tested and the vaccinated comes from. At that time, there was not enough knowledge of this. By now, you can say that even if that vaccine effectiveness had decreased even more than 70% and 50%, you are still better protected than someone who comes in negative tested. Why is that? Because negative tests haven't built up any protection at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u127	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u128	I note that the Minister says: you have to be careful when making comparisons. But I'm not comparing. I have found that RIVM simply did not calculate it, and I blame the Minister for that and that it uses 70%. If that 70% is 40%, then the modelling report will look very different. Surely the Minister will agree with me. A basis is now being established on the basis of assumptions. Those assumptions are based on old data. RIVM didn't do the math itself. I would point out that it has been calculated elsewhere. Maybe that also explains why now in the nursing homes, where everyone has been vaccinated, that virus is deadly wandering around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u129	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u130	You are now saying a lot of things in a row, but also mixed up, which lead to wrong conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u131	I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u132	First of all, the modeling of RIVM is also justified by RIVM. It is then about an effectiveness modelling of the use of the corona access card. In addition, it is said that the corona admission ticket is an effective instrument. If you didn't use that, the number of infections after the same event at the same location would increase by 59%. The effectiveness of the corona access card is thus endorsed in the modelling study. What data are used in terms of vaccine effectiveness? The 90% vaccine effectiveness numbers against serious infections and hospitalisations, 70% against infection and 50% against transmission. There is also a justification for what RIVM bases itself on. That is all public responsibility for the numbers used. When it comes to equal protection, I would think that always works in favour of cured and vaccinated people. In any case, they are protected against infection and transmission. You can't say that from people who are only tested negative. So as long as the virus goes around, people who go in vaccinated are always better protected than people who go in unvaccinated. Finally, the nursing homes, which I will come up with in a moment. The point is that not everyone there has been vaccinated. I wish. If everyone there had been vaccinated, we would have had less grief than we do now. By the way, the grief among the vaccinees is unfortunately not absent, but not as great as during the previous waves, when we had no vaccinations yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u133	You will have to do it with this, Mr. Nicolaï, but you can come back to it in your second term. In any case, there is another question from Mr Van Rooijen about the nursing homes. But first, Mr Schalk has the floor for another brief interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u134	I just hung up on your call about questions that are still open. I have a short question. The Minister uses a lot of figures. I understand that, too. There are also figures from RIVM, for example, that say that if you blame a certain group, that group actually only gets further into its shell. So if you're blaming it somewhere, they're gonna argue more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u135	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u136	My question. At the beginning of my speech I pointed out the responsibility I gave to a soldier who did not want to. You may remember. So once you give that responsibility, you actually get a lot more response. Could the Minister share with us how we could achieve this instead of a new law every time, a new toolbox, etc.? How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u137	First, the word "debt." I do not use the word 'debt' myself, but I do think that there is too much going on in the political and social debate because of the simply uncomfortable fact that a large proportion of the people who are in the hospitals have not been vaccinated. If they had, the pressure on care would not have been so high that we had to call off all kinds of people and postpone operations of people who had to take place in the short term. In short, I think that in the political and social debate there is too much going on around that uncomfortable question. And it has everything to do with responsibility. Because precisely with the fact that we prefer not to name it, precisely with the fact that we say "no, you know, it's your right not to be vaccinated; that doesn't have to" deprive those people of co-responsibility for what it means to live together, the co-responsibility for what it means to share responsibility for keeping care accessible. So when it comes to responsibility, I think we should have that conversation with a much greater degree of urgency. When it comes to people who no longer feel that well understood, it is of course also the 88.7%, now, who thinks: "Hey, it's crazy that even 1G is spoken of, for example. I have been vaccinated or cured, I contribute much less to hospitalizations and to a much lesser extent to the infections and I also have a much less chance of getting sick, and just so that I don't hit others in the head, I should get tested again or something. What is the added value?" So we also see these kinds of feelings in the 88.7%. And that, I believe, means that we must always strike a balance in the political discourse, and also in that clash of fundamental rights we must strike a balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u138	Thank you. We're back on the subject "why the law?'. It also looks a bit like something that has already been discussed and which I have given a lot of space for, because of course it affects the core and also an important subject. I suggest we not have the same discussion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u139	No, Mr. Chairman. I understand. Then let me be very brief. It is good that the Minister prevents him from using the word 'debt', but even if you use words like 'I don't think this is wise' or 'there is a certain inconvenience', that can make people feel very strongly: okay, so it's us. On the other hand, you could also say to that 88.7%: don't think it's because you've been vaccinated or because you've been sick is all done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u140	That's absolutely true. That is absolutely true, and I think we have come to realize that again. I think that the arrival of this new variant should also make us extra alert at the point where we all have a responsibility to reduce the number of infections. That is why the rules really apply to everyone at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u141	Thank you. Then there was another question from Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It wasn't one question. It was a lot of questions. No questions have been answered from the PVV Group, so I'm just going to ask them again. Of course, the Minister was a little disappointing in that, but I'm assuming he's gonna make it right now. I asked a question about testing. Has there been conclusive testing from the beginning? Is there a standard procedure for that? After how many cycles is read? And then there is the question: if there is a standard procedure, how is it secured and what does it mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u143	I've heard those questions, but I've also registered them as questions that weren't about today's bill. These questions are about the PRC protocol and what we are not talking about here today is PCR tests. It's about testing for access. Those are antigen tests. That's not PCR at all. I have answered these questions several times to your colleagues in the House of Representatives and also to the Member Van Haga. RIVM has made a wonderful addition to this and if I read it to you, I think the President would immediately hammer me out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u144	I'm not gonna let you take me off like that. That's the first thing. This is a legislative proposal aimed at reducing the number of infections. Contaminations shall be determined by testing. I have a test question here. That's the basis of the whole thing. The basis is: when has anyone been tested positive? Because from a positive test, an infectious thing rolls when I read it all like that. So I'm just gonna answer that. We are entitled to this information, because this is very basic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u145	Just so you know, it's very specific. This bill concerns the broadening of the scope of corona access tickets. Corona admissions are issued to people who have been cured or vaccinated or tested. What test is there? An antigen test, so no PCR. It's really not like PCR has anything to do with this; nothing at all. It is also true that I have answered these questions several times. Of course, I am also willing to provide you with everything you have always wanted to know about PCR protocols in international standards. But this is not a debate between scientists. Soon we'll be lab workers of the month, but what does that add to the political debate we're supposed to have here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u146	I hear you saying that you are prepared to send some information in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u147	Anything, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u148	Once again, measures are taken on the basis of advice from the OMT. The OMT also has reports of contagion. Now you're not gonna tell me that the PCR test has no role in that at all? Again the question: has the PCR tests been tested uniformly from the beginning, what is the protocol, how many cycles are running and what cycle is being read out? That is certainly important, because if you start reading over 35 cycles, there is no infection anymore. So it's definitely relevant. An earlier Wob request shows that 40 to 45 cycles are running. If you start reading, then you're not contagious at all, then you don't have an effective virus at all. And that is certainly important, especially with this bill, which makes a difference between vaccinees and unvaccinated people and whether you need to test positive or negative. So this is the basis of everything. It simply needs to be clarified, otherwise we will not be able to make the right decisions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u149	Finally, Minister, within the context of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u150	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman, but I thought I'd tried a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u151	Soon, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u152	This bill doesn't touch PCR tests; it doesn't, just doesn't, not at all. It's about 3G. 3G has been vaccinated, cured or tested. The tests used for this are antigen tests. The Stichting Open Nederland uses antigen tests and no PCR for Testing for Access. It would also be a very expensive joke, by the way. Then it's about PCR use. I've informed the Chamber on several occasions. I sent a detailed annex to the Chamber on 12 October. It contains everything your heart desires about cut-off values, about cycles and about international standards around PCR. But I really don't think it makes any sense to make that part of a political debate. I do see that it happens occasionally and is tried to interfere, apparently, with the reliability of the PCR test. But PCR is the international standard, the gold standard when it comes to determining whether someone is infected or not. I am more than willing to send that annex to the Chamber one more time, if you will, but I do not see how it affects the bill that we are discussing here today. Nor do I see how we can have a meaningful political debate on the standards that apply to laboratory staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u153	Thank you. Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u154	Sorry to say it, but I think it is a very unsatisfactory answer; let me put it nicely. But of course it's bullshit, because those PCR tests certainly have a very big role to play. You are not going to tell me that this is not the case! 'Cause then we're not gonna do PCR tests anymore? Is that the next step? That's just bullshit! Those PCR tests play a very big role. Then you must not come here with some story that it is not! 'Cause it's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u155	Thank you. Did you have another question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u156	Yeah, I got a couple more. The OMT will also be excluded from the legislative proposal, but it is certainly also important, because the OMT comes with the advice. I was talking about the conflict of interest, or alleged conflict of interest, I must say; that is more neat. Follow the Money wrote a piece about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u157	But Mrs Faber, excuse me, this is really out of order. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u158	Mr President, I do not agree with you because, on the basis of these opinions, the measures are being taken, and on the basis of those measures...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u159	I now ask the Minister to answer your question about the OMT and its reliability within the context of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u160	Within the context of the legislative proposal, I cannot answer that. In addition to the context of the legislative proposal, I have simply answered these questions in writing to the House of Representatives. In order to be transparent and avoid conflicts of interest, there is, of course, an obligation for each Member to complete a declaration of interest. This code to prevent improper influence by conflicts of interest requires information about secondary functions, personal and financial interests and research funds. All these statements are publicly available on the RIVM website. Since everything is public and transparent, I see no reason to answer any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u161	Did all OMT members sign that declaration of conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u162	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u163	Then I'd like to see Jaap van Dissel's, because I can't find it. If you could do that, that would be nice. Could you hand over that statement to me, because it's not on the website?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u164	Everything is just transparent. But there's something else I need to say, Mr. Chairman. What we have been doing in this crisis for more than 20 months now is leaning on scientists who have become full, but really full, of the storm wind, who are much more than they like to be exposed, who are much more than they like also subject to intimidation, threat, very bad reactions to social media, to the need for security. For a moment there, I find unsubstantiated suspicions in the direction of scientists who are actually leading us through this crisis more than scandalous. I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u165	Do you have any other questions, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u166	I'd like to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u167	No, I'm sorry, this point is out of order. I'm going to take the floor now. I'm asking you if you have any questions about the bill. I now give you the opportunity to put a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u168	Then I would like to make a point of order, Mr President. Because I'm being personally attacked here, like I'm sitting here telling you something that's not true. Well, I guess I'm gonna go call him man and horse, Microvida. There's Kluytmans in there, and he said himself that, as the number...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u169	Mrs Faber, you're not about order here, that's what I'm about. Article 94 (2): this is out of order. I'm just declaring it out of order. You will not have the floor to discuss this further. I'll give you the floor now to see if we can talk about the bill. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u170	Mr President, with all due respect to you as a person, you are doing censorship here. 'Cause it's relevant stuff. People in the OMT, with an alleged conflict of interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u171	Mrs Faber, you can request a debate on this, which is not censored. If the majority of the Chamber puts that on the agenda, we are simply going to have that debate. There is another item on the agenda today. As your President, I am obliged to restrict you to order, and I shall do so, under Rule 94 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. That's also for your own protection. Fine if you want to have the debate on another subject, I am not going to stand in your way, then we are simply going to set it up by the usual route. Today there is a bill on the agenda. What you are discussing is not part of the order of this debate. Go ahead with a question about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u172	As a result of your input, you might conclude that the OMT doesn't matter. Well, that's a whole new one, I'll tell you, because the OMT plays a very big role. That is something we must not discuss. I'm very sorry, but I think you're censoring me on this. Then I shall continue with the next point, on which I have not had any answers either. But, yes, that will also be out of order. I am referring to the publication of the OMT's meetings, the OMT's reports and the scientific basis for the opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u173	The reports of the OMT shall not be public. Meetings of the OMT shall also not be public. That's right. The OMT's advice is public, and you'll get it. If reference is made to scientific research, you will see that also in the basis of the OMT opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u174	Can I conclude from this that the Minister does not want to make the reports of the meetings public?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u175	No. The reports are indeed confidential, that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u176	So they won't be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u177	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u178	We can't look in the kitchen to see what's being discussed, and we can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u179	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u180	So it's still a blackbox. But we have to decide about it here in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u181	Actually, it's the same as the Council of Ministers. The reports of the Council of Ministers are confidential, but you know very well what is being decided. That is what we say when the Council of Ministers is over. Then we'll tell you what's decided. And what everyone has said and why, it doesn't matter at all, because it's about the outcome of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u182	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u183	I do not think there is any point in asking any further questions about this, because there is no publicity and we need to find out. Something's being put away. It cannot be controlled by parliament, but it must be decided by parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u184	The good thing is that everything can be controlled by Parliament, namely both the advice from the Outbreak Management Team, because you get those advice, as well as the decisions of the Cabinet on the basis of those opinions. You can do "search the differences" every time. In fact, you don't even have to do your best to do that, because in the letter to the Chamber, the cabinet itself sets out the opinions that have been taken and why. It is actually maximum transparent and therefore very easy to follow. If you disagree with something, you can request a debate on this and then you have a full parliamentary toolbox to either reject these measures or intervene further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u185	Mr. Chairman. Then I should like to request a debate next week to discuss the members of the OMT and the conflict of interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u186	You can do all that through the committees, and if there is a majority in favour of that agenda, we are going to set it up. Then I'm going to see Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u187	Two more questions have not been answered by the Minister. I was the first to ask a question about low-literate citizens and citizens with limited digital skills, given the realistic perspective of self-reliance. I asked the Minister whether a performance test has been applied and whether empirical evidence shows that the solutions mentioned are sufficient for low-literate citizens and citizens with limited digital skills. I will also ask the second question immediately. I've been asking about polarization and communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u188	First of all, the lowly. We do our best to involve the low-literate well, but I also note that it is not always possible. With all communication expressions, of course, we check whether they can also be followed by people who are low-literate. We have a whole support module called "Steffie," which you know about, which brings out all communication expressions even more easily. The press conference is always available in extra simple language. On the contrary, we are trying to take very good account of low-literate people and also of non-lingual speakers. Then there's the question of capacity. I didn't do a do-gooder test on this bill. You're just being questioned at the entrance on your corona pass, so I think it's doable. Is it possible for people who are low-lettered to get a corona pass? Yes. There is also plenty of support for this, including in libraries. It can be requested on paper and by phone, so you don't need a phone at all. That's how it works again. I think that there is also a great deal of support for low-literate people or people who find it difficult to make up for it all digitally, to get on board anyway. And then your last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u189	It was about the quality of communication in relation to polarization, also with this law. I indicated that the last time there was very careful communication, with binding language. Will the Cabinet hold this line?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u190	Yeah, but I'll tell you how hard that is. We also test very well how press conferences are received. On the last occasion, I noticed that the differences in views are enormous, both in terms of tone and in terms of the content of the measures. At the moment you can see that there is quite a big division in the Netherlands. At the same time, I am always looking for: what is the common ground we stand on? That is the desire to keep the care accessible, I am sure, for people who need care. That's really what connects us all. I don't really know anyone who says he doesn't care at all. After all, everyone thinks that is very important. We must choose this common ground under our feet as a point of reference to combat polarisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u191	Then there were a number of questions from Mr Van Rooijen about the nursing homes. I think he's going to repeat it now, but perhaps the Minister will answer it first, for the sake of clarity, if I give the Minister the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u192	Fine, but I thought that was the third part with the varia. But it's okay now. I would just like to ask a question about the Minister's remark that in the nursing homes the vaccination rate is not that high, or at least far from complete. I would like to ask that question before the Minister goes into the nursing homes more broadly later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u193	There were three topics I wanted to discuss. I said this at the beginning of my speech: although they are not covered by the legislative proposal, I would like to mention them, because they were not sufficiently discussed last week because they were still less topical at the time. Then let me start with the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u194	For the sake of consistency, I would like to ask you, including Mrs Faber, to deal with those parts of the issues that really have a relationship with the legislative proposal. I declare the other parts out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u195	If you look closely at the figures of the nursing homes, you will indeed see that the number of infections in the nursing homes is very high at the moment. The number of contaminated locations is also very high. That's really similar to earlier waves. But the mortality rate is much lower at the moment. So that's what I didn't recognize myself in yesterday's coverage. Fortunately, the mortality rate is much lower. But the mortality rate isn't zero. That could have some backgrounds. First of all, not all houses have 100% of the residents vaccinated. Sometimes some elderly people are very vulnerable and a nursing doctor makes the assessment: perhaps but better not. That is the case in a small number of cases. But in some cases, of course, older people are also concerned, for example, with conscientious objection to vaccinations. So the vaccination rate isn't 100% everywhere. It is very high in one nursing home and in the other nursing home it really is a bit lower, especially in nursing homes of reformatorical taste. So there is a difference in vaccination rates at the nursing homes, and of course it also says something about the vulnerability. If you compare this wave with last year's wave, then you have to realize that that is obviously two variants ago. In November last year there was no mention of the large number of people present on Dutch soil of the British variant. That was not really the case until later. We already had a single lost British variant back then, but it wasn't there in large numbers. In the meantime we not only have the British variant, but we also have delta variant and unfortunately we now have a new virus on Dutch soil that is possibly even more contagious. That's also something you have to take with you in the equation of this wave and the previous wave. So people have been vaccinated. Vaccined people are better protected and therefore the symptoms in vaccinated people in the nursing home are actually milder than in unvaccinated people. Mortality is increasing, but fortunately not so much as during the previous waves. And we're dealing with a more contagious and sickening variant than the two variants we had last year. So you can't exactly compare the second wave and this wave in that respect either. The fact is that older people are vulnerable. They're very vulnerable, and older people in the nursing homes all the way. That brings me to the next subject I wanted to mention in the block of varia. That's why we're quickly boostering them. I want to say a few things about those boosters. First of all, I would like to come back at the end of this week to the way in which we are shaping an additional booster offensive. I announced that last Friday. I would like to say next Friday what this acceleration of the booster campaign is going to be like. We have already started the booster campaign. As of October, all people who have an immune disorder have been invited by their medical specialist for a third shot at the GDD. By now, 107,000 have already been set aside. There are still a number of thousands in the planning, but we have had that group. Then, on 18 November, booster vaccines were offered to the 80-plussers group. In the meantime we are at the birth year 1939, so the 82-year-olds are now turn and called. Then we have the health care institutions with their own medical services, which can therefore prick themselves. They have already placed very large orders with us and they have also been delivered. They're pricking at the moment, too. 181,000 vaccines have now been delivered to the nursing homes. 298 000 vaccines have been delivered to the hospitals for the staff. The GGD has already put 98,000 vaccines on 80-plussers and has planned 89,000 in this week. In addition, 29,000 have already been delivered to the Defense Department. By now, about 110,000 third shots have been made. Mr Van Rooijen has a name on this point; he has undoubtedly made the sum. But let's say I could still help him: for this week, a total of over 800,000 vaccines have been put in place and driven out. Let's assume that they really aren't all being put up at the moment, then you have to assume that at the end of the week some 700,000 boosters were put up. On top of that, of course, we want to achieve a further acceleration. I announced that last Friday. The acceleration we want to achieve is done, among other things, with the help of the Defense Department. Mr Kamp has provided 1,500 soldiers to help us test, but also to vaccinate. In addition, we ask all medical students to come and help us in the last weeks of December. We'd like the people in care who can prick to come and help us. Among other things, Mrs De Bruijn, I have just put on the payroll at the GGD. So we actually want everyone's help, and with everyone's help it should be possible to have done as large a group of 60-plussers as possible for Christmas. "As large a group as possible": it's not gonna work to do all 60-plussers, because then we'd be 5.5 million pricks ahead, including the care workers, and we're not gonna make it before Christmas. What I could do, I would like to send you this Friday. In short, a lot of stings have already been made and a lot of accelerations have already been applied. Finally, the questions about the omikron variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u196	Very briefly, Minister, because that is not part of today's agenda either, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u197	That's right. It determines the severity for this winter in part, although there is still not much to say about it. Last Friday, we imposed a flight ban on the countries concerned. The two planes we hung in the air then, we grounded at Schiphol Airport. The occupants have been tested separately. All the flights that came after that... How come there were flights after that, there was still a flight ban? Yes, but residents of the Netherlands and the EU are an exception, so the repatriation flights afterwards are subject to a mandatory double test there, i.e. on African soil. Then there was another test here in the Netherlands. So the mandatory test was already there. When these South African countries are designated as a very high-risk area, the double test obligation and the quarantine obligation on Dutch soil will also apply. Is it then necessary, if question 50PLUS, to take additional travel measures? We have been advised on this by the RIVM. I would like to agree with the Members of the European Parliament on this because I really want to get along with the Members of the European Parliament. If that leads to further action, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u198	Thank you. That's what brought you to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u199	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u200	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u201	I just need to grab my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u202	Shall I first give the floor to Mr Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u203	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u204	Is Mr Janssen ready? Yeah? I would like to give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u205	Always ready, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. In my view, when interrupting with the Minister, I found that the urgency that appeared to exist with this bill was there on 12 November, but it is not there now. If you look at the number of urgent requests that we have, you could say that perhaps the Minister could have said that the situation has changed very much now, but know that the urgency is at this moment a little bit finished in the sense that it really has to be today, because it will not go in tomorrow. Perhaps it could have been a good signal if the Minister had said: I often call on you for urgency. We come together during recesses as First Chamber also when it is necessary, but this could have been otherwise. This could have waited a week; the vote, for example. Whatever could have happened is this. There has been no consultation on this bill, which was actually quite time for it. My question to the Minister is therefore: should this legislative proposal reach a majority, will consultation still take place between now and the introduction of the ministerial regulation? That would be appropriate, in addition to the discussions that might be held on implementation. Such a consultation would be in place anyway. And then I look at when this is supposed to happen. If it were a management measure, it would be from 19 December, if the measures were to expire on 28 November. It would hit retail in the week before Christmas. That's a busy week, and they don't have any extra people, because they can't get them. Then it would be a problem. I think that is also a recipe for failure to achieve results. Then we're not gonna make it to the targets, I'm afraid. Mr. Chairman. I had put another question to the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I kept this for the second time only, on the reply given by the Minister to the Council of State to the effect that the feasibility of the scheme could be considered, but that is contrary to Article 58rb (b), which states that a measure taken must be practicable and effective. That is not a can-determine; that is simply a requirement. Otherwise, the measure must not be taken. But this all depends on the ministerial arrangement. I would have liked to have heard more about the ministerial arrangement. Now, here's what's actually happening. The Minister says: I would like to deliver a car to you in advance, but I do not know if it will be delivered, when it will be delivered and whether it will meet the conditions and requirements of the RDW, I also do not know which brand and type and color it will be delivered, but do you want to order and pay off from me anyway. The balance is extremely difficult for me and for my group to make now, because I do not know whether that ministerial arrangement that is to come will meet the requirements of 58rb, point b. The Minister says: there will be a further veil on the ministerial settlement. But then we've already said yes to a law that we don't know how it's gonna work out. I think it is a very complicated construct to come to a positive judgment on a law that is actually a carte blanche and in which I will have to rely on a veil later on. How can we know in advance that the ministerial arrangement and the trade-offs that the cabinet is going to make will meet those conditions of the 58rb Public Health Act? Mr. Chairman. I find this extremely complicated and this means that at the moment I cannot give an opinion from my group on this proposal. We're really gonna have to talk about that. We also have the Minister's second term. But the way it looks at the moment, the assessment I have to make is not reassuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u206	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Faber. Yeah? Then I give the floor to Mrs Faber on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise you that I am extremely disappointed in the reply and also in this Chamber. Last week we were not allowed to talk about 2G, we are not allowed to talk about the OMT and we are not allowed to talk about the way in which tests are carried out, whereas those tests are the basis of everything. So that is extremely disappointing. It's also a form of censorship. Okay, then the models of the RIVM. No one knows exactly what goes in there and no one knows exactly what comes out. At least we don't know; within the RIVM people know. It's like a magic box: you can magicalize anything. Sometimes it's like ball-ball: then the ball is under the hat and then there, it's just where you want it. Good. I am a little disappointed that the capacity problem is being passed on to the unvaccinated. I didn't want to talk about it today, but I'm a little challenged to talk about it. Because let's not forget the closure of hospitals, the scaling down of beds and the layoffs in care. During Rutte II, 80,000 people were discharged from care. I did not want to attack the colleague of the PvdA with his input, but I am going to say it in general here. In Rutte II were the PvdA and of course the VVD. It is also true that, because of the poor working conditions, people do not hold on to the staff within the care. Mr. Van der Voort also said this in an interview that I saw of him at, I think, Omroep Noord. He said: we have 1,150 beds, but we still have a staff problem, because we cannot put our hands to the bed at 200 beds, because we have no staff. That staff was either completely exhausted at home and is sick of all these conditions or was no longer so called to work in care. So let's not flatten that part either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u208	Do you want to finish it first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u209	I'm going back to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u210	Okay, let's get to the point of order. We can continue until 5:00. I have to suspend at 5 p.m. precisely because of committee meetings. So either we're done at 4:30 p.m., then a 15-minute break and then a vote, or we're gonna vote at 7:00 p.m. It's up to you to decide if you still want to interrupt. In any case, it will be votes at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u211	I just wanted to make an interruption. Mrs Faber, like me, is very critical of this bill. Only, she just mentioned that censorship is being applied here, because we could not talk about the OMT. This concerns not only the President, but all of us. I think the great crux is that Mrs Faber mentions names of people who cannot defend themselves here and who are not supposed to defend themselves here. I just wanted to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u212	Mrs Faber, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u213	It's hard to invite the whole of the Netherlands here. We can't have anyone here anymore as a visitor, except the press. Then it may happen that people can't defend themselves here. But if you have a certain function, you have a certain responsibility. If there are specialists or experts within the OMT who come up with an opinion, I think you should be able to say something about that. Anyway, I understand your consideration. I'm in a different way, but you won't be surprised. The Minister states that more measures will be taken in the event of an increase in infection pressure. That also depends on the number of infections. That's why it's such a shame we can't talk here about how reliable the PCR test is. I would like to ask whether the Minister is willing to send the standard procedure of how the PCR test is taken to the Chamber. At least we'll have a little insight into the kitchen and how those PCR tests run. Then I would also like to know: the number of cycles, when read out, what the primers are and so on. Good. Then about the OMT's decision. That's a black box and it seems to remain a black box. We should not talk about that, but I would like to make a few motions. I'll start with the first motion. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Van Hattem proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the OMT's decision lays down the basis for far-reaching measures, which also undermine fundamental rights of all citizens;]] [[noting that there is no way of verifying the basis of the OMT's opinions;]] [[noting that there is no way to verify whether the underlying data of those opinions give a true picture of reality;]] [[calls on the Government to publish meeting reports of the OMT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35961-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u214	Mr President, I have another motion. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Ton van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the OMT's decision lays down the basis for far-reaching measures, which also undermine fundamental rights of all citizens;]] [[noting that there is no way of verifying the basis of the OMT's opinions;]] [[noting that there is no way to verify whether the underlying data of those opinions give a true picture of reality;]] [[calls on the government to make OMT meetings public so that citizens know what is being discussed in the meetings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35961-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u215	You can talk faster than I can!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u216	Then I have another motion on the OMT. The considerations are almost the same, so if you'll allow me, I'll skip them. I can read them very quickly, but even faster is of course skipping. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Van Hattem proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to include and publish the corresponding scientific evidence in the OMT opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35961-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u217	Okay, Mr. Chairman. We do not want to talk here in a debate about conflicts of interest between OMT members. But I'm going to table a motion on that, because maybe we can have that investigated. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Frentrop, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Follow the Money mentions the conflicts of interest of some OMT members;]] [[Whereas the OMT's decision lays down the basis for far-reaching measures, which also undermine the fundamental rights of all citizens;]] [[noting that there is no way of verifying the basis of the OMT's opinions;]] [[invites the Government to further examine whether there is a conflict of interest between OMT members or experts within the decision-making process of the OMT who are consulted at the closed meetings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35961-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u218	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u219	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer, too, although I didn't think it was complete. I still have a few questions for the Minister. Does he agree with me that the legal text states that there must be a comparable chance of transfer? That is not the chance of getting sick and not the chance of getting into hospital, but the chance of getting transferred. The second question is the following. When you talk about vaccine effectiveness, you can talk about effectiveness against infection and transmission. Is it true that the Minister assumes a vaccine effectiveness of 70% against the infection and 50% against the transmission? Can the Minister confirm that? If that is the case and the 70% is used, this is a recent finding. I asked when that statement was made. That was October 5th. It's November 30th now. So we're talking about nine weeks apart. I asked about the period in which the tests were conducted on which the 70% was based. That turned out to be the period July to September. That's a long way away. Does the Minister confirm this information and is it not certain that this data is outdated? I understand the vaccine effectiveness against the infection decreases as it has been longer since someone has been vaccinated. The Minister has confirmed this in writing. I'd like to know if he still supports that. In October, the opinion was based on that 70%. It is now November 30th, nine weeks later. If the effect of the vaccine decreases every week, is it likely that it is no longer that 70%, but lower? I'm coming to Italy. There have been studies on vaccine effectiveness. The notice of 7 November is based not on 70%, which was in September in Italy, but on 50%. On 21 November we see that an effectiveness of 40% is measured. My question to the Minister is whether this is relevant to the question of whether there is a reduction in the protection of the vaccine. Finally, 122,000 vaccinees were tested positively in November. That's nine times more than in September. Does the Minister also consider this relevant to the question of whether we should take into account a reduction in the protection of the vaccine? If all this is so, should we not note that the 70% that has been assumed is no longer a realistic fact and that we need to get closer to the data we know from Italy? Does that not bring back to the first question, once again, that the comparable risk of transmission to the vaccinees is no longer present in relation to those who have undergone a test? If that's the case, then it's not true that we're even going to extend the law today. Those were the questions. Then I come to another legal or political question on Article 22 of the Constitution. I would like to ask the Minister how he views compliance with that provision if it is actually known in the summer that a booster is being put in place in Israel, because it has been found there that the effect of the vaccine is reduced, if there are data in other countries showing that the effect of the vaccine, so to speak, is actually falling down and is actually only now being used on the urgent boosters and so on. In the meantime, we have a massive spread of the virus. Has this government actually complied with Article 22 of the Constitution? We may not be able to blame the Minister for this, but I would like to have it established here in the Chamber. Has Article 22 been sufficiently complied with? In particular, I ask this because I hear the Minister again say that the fault of what we are now in is actually with the people who have not vaccinated. If that booster had been set and if the test capacity had been in order, would we have been able to produce this huge fluttering virus for which we now, sometimes in panic, have to take measures? I'll take a look at Denmark. I also put that forward in my first term. In Denmark the vaccination rate is almost unchanged from the Netherlands, but they do not have these problems. Is that up to the vaccinees and the people who did not want to be vaccinated or who have not been able to vaccinate? Or is it due to other factors, such as government policy? Those were my words in second term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u221	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. And I would ask the Minister once again to confine himself to the context of the legislative proposal when replying. Then I go to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u222	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers to our questions about the situation in nursing homes. He shares our concern and wants to take additional measures. In particular, he wants to boost the booster campaign. That boost can be very effective in protecting the elderly and vulnerable, even if they have been vaccinated. My question to the Minister is whether, with the announcements he is going to make and which we will receive here by letter, he can give extra priority to the booster shot in the nursing homes, precisely because it can be so effective. The minister also mentioned the military's efforts. Is it conceivable that the highest priority should be given to nursing homes when the army is deployed, because there is the greatest need? Because we all want to avoid mortality there as much as possible. The Minister talked about the severity of winter in the new virus. My group believes that the seriousness of the winter, which is evident from my comments, is at the nursing homes. The mortality in nursing homes is not on the agenda, but that is the reality of today and also of the coming weeks. And that is a bitter reality. The minister says the mortality rate is low. Can he inform us by letter of the number of deaths, as the Flemings call them, in the nursing homes in the last quarter and in the last month, especially in the region? In particular, I am asking because I would like to know what the Biblebelt's share of mortality in nursing homes is. Finally, Mr President. Criticism must and my group has also expressed it on a regular basis, but it should also be appreciated. My group appreciated the openness which the Minister expressed at last Friday's press conference on the tensions in society, polarisation and division, which he so strikingly reflected. Our group wishes to wish wisdom and strength to the Minister of Health and also to the Minister of Justice, who is not here today, because times are still difficult, especially with the new virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u223	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u224	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and also the Minister for JenV for his reply and also the officials who have been very busy with it. Also thank you for the commitment to report the enforcement dates in the stand-of-business letter. Mr. Chairman. When I look at the discussion, I would like to raise a single point of concern. If we are going to ask questions about the PCR test, which is a Cochrane review and which is simply not under discussion in science, I find it very difficult to compare the status of such a test with the verdict of any MP who asks questions about it. Something similar to the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u225	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to point out something about that PCR test. The operation of the PCR is not under discussion, but the way it is applied is. I've called it into question. I have called into question the number of cycles that are going on when reading, which primers are being used, etc., etc. And also whether they are used in a single way. That's quite different from what you're saying right now, that I'm questioning the PCR test itself. No, it's about the M.O., how it works. I'd like to put that nuance here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u227	In Cochrane reviews, the methodology is essential. You're talking about a SOP. Well, an SOP is essential. Without good SOP, a study is excluded from Cochrane review at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u228	Mr. Verkerk, I suggest we finish this subject, because now you are out of order. I must now give Mrs Faber the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u229	I'm very glad Mr. Verkerk is bringing up the SOP, because why shouldn't it be made public? Is that a secret, the SOP?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u230	I would just like to say that you can find it in the Cochrane review. I don't have it. Ask a scientist. It's not secret. It's just everywhere to be found. I'm not a medic and I don't have one, but I do know what a Cochrane review is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u231	Then I suggest that we close this down slowly. Please continue your speech on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u232	Fine, Mr. Chairman. This is indirectly related to the bill. At the moment when the OMT decides things and argues them well, I find questions about all the details of the sitting dangerous, because it puts the way science works and gives advice in an annoying way. Before you know it, this leads to mistrust. Mr. Chairman. I come to the question, which has also been asked to me: why do you join the Council of State where it is discussed that the bill can contribute to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u233	Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u234	Mr President, a brief interruption. I'll be brief. With the last thing Mr Verkerk just said, I do not agree at all. He says: scientific discussions, we cannot read reports of them. On the contrary, I think it would be very helpful if there was transparency. For example, I would like to draw Mr Verkerk's attention to the financial world, where transparency is also very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u235	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u236	The Fed minutes, in which the Fed decides on interest rates, are always published immediately next week. Then the market also knows what people are thinking about. If people understand how the OMT thinks, I think that can give rise to scientific new insights. Does Mr Verkerk agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u237	Thank you. After that, will you continue your argument, Mr Verkerk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u238	Mr President, very briefly. I am not against scientific transparency, but at a time when there are scientific discussions that must lead to a clear opinion, I can imagine that it is wise to keep those discussions confidential. I'm going on. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate we said that we are dealing with a complex, chaotic, non-linear system. This concerns the behavior of the virus and the behavior of humans. That is why I believe that it is impossible to say exactly what the effect is of individual measures. It's so complex. You can also not compare data from Italy with data from the Netherlands. That is why our group believes that you should opt for measures, or opt for a toolbox of measures that you can reasonably assume can have an effect, especially if they are used in conjunction. That is why I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. Mr. Chairman. Let me conclude with a comment on language. I personally believe that we should be very careful with language. The word "wappy" has a very negative circle of meaning. I think we should be careful with that. I would personally be very careful to use words like "exclude from society." It is not a question of excluding someone from society, but of excluding them from certain activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u239	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I thank the Minister for the answers we have received. To be honest, they are not yet entirely convincing for the SGP. My group sees this measure, a corona ticket for non-essential shops and services, as a wrong step towards a wrong measure: a 2G society. That raises many questions, including about the Constitution. The Minister makes a heavy claim to those who have not been vaccinated, but the Constitution is mainly there to protect citizens from the government and not to deprive citizens of as many rights as possible on the basis of that same Constitution. Does the Minister agree with me? It is my firm belief that this is not a wise route. It leads, I say, to the exclusion of groups of citizens and, more seriously, it also leads to polarisation. In an explosive society, the fuse is very short. This measure, and the following measures that we see coming, seem to be the lighter at that short fuse. So don't. The SGP Group will not support this law. Does the SGP say no to all measures? No, the SGP has supported and continues to support a great many of the government's measures. And the SGP believes that everyone in our society should take responsibility, but also that everyone is part of it. Mr. Chairman. There is another point. Again and again the government exudes that together we will get control of the corona virus. It is now clear: we cannot do this together, and we cannot do that alone. It's gonna take more than that. Very explicit: we need God for that. This is not intended to remove our responsibility, but it puts that responsibility in the right perspective as far as I am concerned. This morning I received a message from a covid patient, recovering, still very weak. She sent a psalm she listened to last night: "I lay and slept comfortably, Aware of the Lord's loyalty, Until I woke up refreshed; For God was by my side; He supported me. In the agony that made me naked." I wish the Minister, including in his hard work, and all my colleagues, every confidence in God. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u241	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually had one more question for the Minister and three motions for resolutions. The question was about the serological test. I welcome the Minister's enthusiasm. I understood from Mrs Pouw-Verweij, who is well at home in this matter, that students could also do so, provided they have their notes. Maybe that's gonna save you somethin'. Then I'd like to table three motions, starting with a motion about audiences in small-scale outdoor amateur sport. The: Mr Nanninga, Mr Berkhout and Mr Beucker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that outdoor sports are not allowed to have a public presence because of the corona measures;]] [[Whereas the risk of outdoor corona contamination is marginal;]] [[noting that it is now daily practice in various sports associations that parents bring and fetch their (young) children at the same time at competitions and training courses, creating an accumulation of people at the entrance/exit of (closed) sports parks, which is contrary to the intended effect of this measure;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to allow the presence of the public in small-scale outdoor amateur sport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35961-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u243	Then the motion outdoor sports locations open in the evening. The: Mr Nanninga, Mr Berkhout and Mr Beucker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that outdoor sports venues, sports canteens and dressing rooms are closed after 5 p.m.;]] [[Whereas outdoor sports are often also possible without the use of sports canteens and dressing rooms;]] [[Whereas sport is important for a healthy lifestyle;]] [[Whereas the risk of outdoor corona contamination is marginal;]] [[asks the Cabinet to allow sports at outdoor sports locations again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35961-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u244	Finally. I have heard the Minister very well that the booster campaign is lagging behind compared to other European countries, and certainly with Israel. De Volkskrant had a very interesting article about this, with a debugging series of calls about the state of our booster campaign. I heard the promise that there will be a plan on Friday. We do not have a complete fiduciary in this activity and the speed of action, because we are, to start with, two months behind. So in that light, a motion on the booster campaign. The: Mr Nanninga, Mr Berkhout and Mr Beucker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is lagging behind in the administration of booster vaccines compared to many Western countries;]] [[noting that the vaccines administered earlier this year are less effective against COVID-19 over time;]] [[noting that there are no concrete plans for accelerating and expanding the booster campaign;]] [[Whereas the introduction of booster vaccines has a clear positive effect on the burden of care and can relieve the burden of care in the short term;]] [[calls on the government to grow to 100% of the puncture capacity within 14 days,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35961-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u246	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u247	Thank you, Mr President. We also thank the Minister for answering the questions. First of all, I would like to return to the issue of fundamental rights. The D66 Group was pleased to hear the Minister's statement on fundamental rights, in which the fundamental rights of one person could interfere with those of another. We believe that the balance that the Minister makes in that regard is also ours. The other point is the debate we have had on the validation of the PCR test, in which the cut-off values that have been scientifically established and applied have been questioned. I find it remarkable that we are having a debate on this. Surely we are having our debate on scientifically established standards, which we are using? It seems that, if we start to raise doubts about this, we are at risk of carrying out some kind of pseudoscience here, which we think is inappropriate. It is also true that, if we go on that tour, we may be contributing to disinformation. That could create a two-way street and lead to polarization.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u248	Is it asking for information to cast doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u249	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u250	Is it asking for information about what the standard procedure is, then raising doubts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u251	The point is that in this case extensive scientific research has been carried out on PCR tests and their application is not contested. That is what we are working for in our political decision-making. And that's how we need to use science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u252	But then I don't understand what's wrong with asking what the standard procedure is. What's wrong with that? Can't I just ask you that? Why couldn't that be asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u253	I did not understand the issue of the standard procedure at all in Mrs Faber's speech, so I did not ask for it at all. In my view, this is an effect on the application of such a test in practice. That has nothing to do with another debate we are having here, namely the cut-off value, so I cannot answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u254	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u255	I would like to explain once again the importance of the standard procedure. You can't compare things until you test everything in the same way. As a doctor, I think you should be able to understand that. If one sister is testing and the other one is like that, you can't compare it to another, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u256	Then I suggest that you continue your speech, after the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u257	Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer and I have given our group a positive opinion on this bill and we can inform the Minister that we are going to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u258	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr Frentrop has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for the answers. We are looking here at the quality of the legislation. Mr Janssen of the SP has already pointed out the urgency of this bill, which was not necessary afterwards. Then we look at efficiency. I also agree with Mr Janssen, who spoke of a carte blanche, because we do not know exactly what the minister wants to do with what he is asking. In Sinterklaastermen he asks to throw anything in his shoe, just to put something in his toolbox, or to put an extra slide on his mixing panel, as Mr. Van der Voort suggests. The Forum for Democracy does not think that this is wise. We are more responsible for our own responsibility than for extra slides on the government panel, all the more so since the effectiveness of the entire corona access card is waning, now that we are dealing with vaccine inflation, especially when it comes to transmission of the virus. The most important thing for us is that individual freedom of choice remains in place for people, to decide for themselves whether they want to be vaccinated or not. That is not officially the subject of today's debate, but it is moving a bit that way, every time the Minister quotes his uncomfortable truth, also in the light of the 2G measures already announced. The step Mr. Schalk saw in the wrong direction, I see too. All in all, I see only reason not to agree with the Minister's request for these additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u260	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mrs Prins has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u261	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. We agree that the Minister wishes to extend the use of corona tickets to non-essential facilities in the so-called toolbox in order to prevent the closure of the retail sector. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is very important for people to be able to assume their responsibilities, as various colleagues here in the Chamber also point out. At the same time, we note that some citizens are simply struggling with this and that control and enforcement are also necessary. This applies to compliance with the basic rules and also to the effectiveness of this law. We therefore welcome the fact that the cabinet is holding talks with the retail trade on how to provide support in promoting compliance and control. In this context, I can reassure my colleague, Mr Janssen, because I know that there are discussions with the retail trade and that we are looking on all sides to see how support can get hands and feet. Mr. Chairman. We shall therefore vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u263	Mr President, I shall be brief. Our group is of the opinion that the current bill on corona access tickets is not sufficient to avoid the threat of a black code in hospitals. As we speak, the regular care is scaled down. According to the Dutch Healthcare Authority, one in three hospitals in the Netherlands has been removed from all planned care in 25 hospitals. 36% of all operating rooms are no longer in use. So the situation is getting worse very quickly. That is why we have advocated unconventional measures. As far as we are concerned, the legislative proposal before us is completely inadequate. Unconventional measures are needed, because code black is approaching with raging strides. Unfortunately, our motion this afternoon on special corona centres did not reach the votes. In the meantime, however, our group understands that the Minister is still working on a pilot to set up at least three special corona centres. Apparently this idea should not come from our group, but fortunately there is an understanding that it is a good idea. And we all don't care. As long as it happens! But please do it quickly, because time is running out. Unconventional measures, Mr. Chairman. This afternoon Greece introduced a scheme whereby unvaccinated people are fined €100 each month. This amount is also automatically debited from the bank account by the Greek government and the proceeds go to a special corona fund. So financial incentives. That works. You don't have to explain that to the Greeks. That is why we also want to see a financial incentive for those who are unvaccinated if they end up on ic through their own risk. Those unvaccinated people don't think anything's gonna happen to them. Well, as I said, put your money where your mouth is. Add the deed to the word. There is not really a good Dutch translation for it. Then accept that you'll lose more money if you do. I also compared it to a higher insurance premium if you're going skydiving. So, like Greece, we believe in financial incentives. That's why we have the next motion. I'd like to read it to you now. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a small group of around 10% of the adult Dutch population is currently unvaccinated, leading to a disproportionate pressure on the intensive care departments in Dutch hospitals, where the majority of patients are now unvaccinated;]] [[Whereas the introduction of a form of own risk for unvaccinated patients in case of inclusion on the ic may be an effective measure to increase the willingness to vaccination, thereby reducing the burden on ic care and allowing regular care to proceed as far as possible;]] [[Whereas the carrying-out of this own risk must take account of the principle of capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in the short term the possibilities for introducing an own risk for the costs of ic intake for unvaccinated persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35961-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u264	That we are still seeing Mr Otten using Greece's financial system. I honestly did not expect that, but I do have the question as to whether he really wants to introduce a system of fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u265	If you look at the euro crisis, you will see that the Greeks have actually done very well, because they have drawn many hundreds of billions from our Northern European pension funds and financial systems. It's also a saying: never underestimate a Greek. The Greeks are not at all as stupid as you think, I think, Mr. Schalk. No, I don't see it as a criminal expedition. If you want to parachute because your faith doesn't allow you to prick, you should take the consequences if the parachute doesn't open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u266	In the end, there was another answer to the question I asked: so still a system of fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u267	Risk acceptance. If you're going to jump parachute, you'll also accept a certain risk. If according to your religion nothing can happen to you, then you must also take the consequences if you end up in hospital. Look, your people don't want to be vaccinated, because that's in the Lord's providence, but if they get sick, they want to go to the hospital. In Zwolle the most regular care is now scaled down from all over the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u268	You do move on the border of insult. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u269	Well, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u270	It's up to me to judge that and that's why it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u271	I also got a bit of a tendency to make the same remark as you. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u272	I do not quite understand the background to the proposal. When it comes to risk: take a 22-year-old student who eats sports, eats very healthy food, does everything to keep her body healthy and is always tested before she goes anywhere. She has to pay Mr. Otten that $100 a month, while the odds are...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u273	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u274	Just a minute. Mr Nicolaï is finishing his brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u275	If you get a fine or an increase in your premium, you pay in advance. It's not like you're taking care of the hospital door, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u276	Then you have misunderstood my proposal. You'll take care of it when you get there. It's not like you, because you don't have a shot... The people you're talking about are hardly on the ICU. They're middle-aged and older people. If they knowingly take that risk and get into the hospital, but don't have a QR code, then it's docking. That's the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u277	You will continue your speech. Or are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u278	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u279	I shall then give the floor to Mr Karakus on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. Of course, it's always a dilemma. Again today, but last week we had almost 16 hours of discussion, a good debate, about the content. You'll hear numbers, opinions and distrust. Of course, that makes the choices difficult. I also understand the situation in which the Minister is in. On the one hand, you have to deal with the question of how to relieve the burden of care. On the other hand, you have to deal with professionalism, different opinions, distrust and so on. In the previous debate we also made a few points. We're just waiting for the letter on polarization. We consider this subject to be very important. How can you prevent polarization and what role could you take in it? Today, we have expressed our concerns about the consequences of the lack of enforcement. Let me put it first: everything has the aim of ensuring that the increase in the coronavirus is contained, so that we can avoid increasing the pressure on care. The package of measures adopted should contribute to this. We have indicated that we have the question of how effective that is. We have not yet received a clear answer. Tomorrow, after all the debate today and last week, I may be walking in the Afrikaanderwijk and asking people what this means. They ask: are we going to get the care faster or is it going to be less busy for the care staff? Can the Minister say again what this means for the cause of concern? Because that is our objective. What is the impact of the package of measures? So I am not just talking about the CTB, but about the overall package of measures. Again, our objective is to avoid pressure on care. So I'd like to answer that. Then the second. Words are important, and preventing pressure on care should also be the story out. Create support. Sketch of perspective. "Dear people, it's difficult, but if we stick to the package of measures, it has the advantage, for you and for us." Make it a good story. You're gonna get a chance to practice on that, Minister. Then compliance. I am pleased that the Minister points out that compliance is important and that, in order to increase compliance, monitoring and enforcement will become an important part of the approach. We do want to increase the chances of a breach, because we believe that this will have an effect on compliance. Are we convinced by the Minister's response? Doubt. We have the confidence that the Minister will come up with a good plan of action, but that is what we want to be convinced of. Maybe we should link it to the fact that it's being delivered quickly. If the next package of measures is to come, it is crucial for us to be able to properly assess the new package of measures in this respect. Perhaps you could make that part of the proposal. How are you going to maintain? What's the effect? Can we get that insightful? Mr. Chairman. All in all, we still have our concerns about that. But we trust that the Minister and the Government will not harm our trust in this and that the Minister will give us some concern as to how we are going to increase compliance and how we are going to put together a good and sound plan of action. Having said that, my advice to the political groups would be to agree to this legislation. I recommend positively, under the Minister's promise that we will have a sound plan of action, which we are convinced of. For the rest, Mr President, we wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom in taking action, because that is quite necessary and we support it. The criteria for the measures have been set out a few times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u281	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Then I'm going to suspend for a few moments. I'm gonna ask the spokesmen to step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u282	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u283	Thank you, Mr President. I will make the motions first and then a single question, if you will allow it. First of all, Mrs Faber's motion. That's the motion with letter E. This motion calls on the government to make the OMT reports public. I would advise against this motion, referring to the debate. The motion with letter F requests the government to make meetings of the OMT public. I do not recommend this motion with reference to the debate. The motion with letter G requests that the corresponding scientific justification be added and made public. If that's the case, it's already public. This motion is therefore superfluous. That's why I'm telling her off. The motion with the letter "H" is about conflict of interest. I do not recommend this motion referring to what I said about it in the first term. The motion with letter I belongs to Mrs. Nanninga. I do not recommend this motion because it undermines the package of measures that we need at the moment in order to reduce the number of infections enough to reduce the number of hospitalisations. On the basis of the current figures, it seems that it really is possible to stabilize these infections, also in the hope that they will decrease again. So let's please hold on to this package, no matter how much I share that you actually want it to be different and that you actually want to have much more space. We can do that again as soon as we can, but not right now. The same applies to the motion with letter J. I would also advise against this. Then the motion with letter K. That motion is about the booster campaign and the booster offensive. I have mentioned a number of examples of how we are doing this gear, such as the acceleration in the nursing homes, the acceleration in the hospitals, the acceleration in the 80-plussers. I have not yet mentioned the acceleration on the people with Down and the acceleration for the 80-plussers living at home who are non-mobile to come to the prick street. In short, at the moment the acceleration is designed on all possible fronts. That also means that the observations made in this motion are incorrect. Also, the operative part is not easy to implement, because we are now well above 100% of the puncture capacity. The point is that the puncture capacity as such needs to be raised. In short, I cannot do much with this motion, but I am already working on the intention of this motion. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u284	About the first two motions on outdoor sports. It's not about asking for more freedoms. That would be a bit stupid, because sometimes we have to turn it in a little to get this virus under control. So I don't think it's a good idea. The reason behind that is that outdoor sports are healthy. When allowing audiences, you avoid that people pack together at the fetching times of especially young children. So it's not asking for more freedom, but it's also just logic to spread people more and keep them out. This can, in our view, reduce the pressure on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u285	I get it, but when you open the outdoor sports locations, that also triggers all kinds of new moves. Luckily, a lot of people work out a week. If you opened that after 5:00 p.m., that just means there's gonna be new moves. The question is, can you have it? Just not right now. As soon as the weather is possible, I can imagine that this is one of the first elements you are looking at, because you want to offer space for sports. But when we say "we're really doing a lockdown from 5:00 to 5:00" and we're all gonna figure out some corners there, we also know that it's crumbled pretty quickly. So from 5:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. it's for the next three weeks and then we're gonna take another look. Then the motion with letter L. This motion belongs to Otten. I understand the background, but I don't think we should cross this bridge. I don't think this is a beneficial road. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions that have been asked and which I am happy to answer. First of all, Mr Janssen's question. Is it really an emergency? Hasn't the rush gone down as time goes on in the last few weeks? I'll share that last part. At the same time, I would like to have the new instrument available quickly. I would therefore ask you to maintain the vote planned for this evening. Why not consult, was asked. There are discussions, but it is true that we have not done an extensive consultation before the legislative proposal is submitted. Is Article 58b of the Wpg complied with and how is the First Chamber involved? Article 58b must be complied with. Whether we comply with it is always for review by the Chamber. The Chamber always has the opportunity to vote on a ministerial arrangement. Even if there is an urgent procedure applied, the Court may still vote against the measure taken in the light of the assessment of necessity and proportionality. Then the question of the PVV whether I want to send everything about PCR tests to the Upper House. I already have, but I'd like to do it again if I make you happy. Then there are Mr Nicolaï's questions. You can see that you have a legal background, because it was almost as if I was in a courtroom with such a build-up of questions. I'm going to answer them anyway, because I think you're asking sharp questions. I will begin with the notion that the law states about the comparable chance of transfer. I would like to stress that this similar possibility of transfer has been inserted into the legal history, because there was initially a bill from the cabinet for testing for access. In addition, you had to show a negative test to gain access. In the Chamber, the current debate in Europe is directly contained in the law by choosing a much wider scope for corona access tickets by means of amendment. Vaccination certificates and recovery certificates have been added as an opportunity to get the green check mark. I added to the discussion: beware, because we do not know anything about the degree of transmission inhibition by vaccination. Suppose the degree of transmission inhibition by vaccination is 0%. Then there is no comparable chance of transmission if there is a high infection pressure outside. The negative tests then enter with a reduced chance of transmission, while the vaccinees were more likely to transfer the virus. That is why I said to Mr Paternotte in particular: it can only be done when there is a comparable chance of transfer. For example, the term "comparable chance of transfer" has been introduced. I remember having a whole debate about the difference between a comparable opportunity and an equal opportunity. A few percent can make the difference why you'd be okay with one thing and not the other. That's the background to this passage in the law. Then to the questions about vaccine effectiveness. In vaccine effectiveness, protection against severe infection and hospitalisation is the most important. It is around 90% for all vaccines, although it starts to fall by percentage points for the oldest elderly and we have now fallen by less than 90%. Hence the booster ratio, to restore vaccine effectiveness against severe infection and hospitalisation via that booster. The last numbers we are using are just going to have to assume the latest state of science, which is given to us by the RIVM, which is 70% and 50%. Is there a time lag in the research data and the observation based on those numbers? Yes. The RIVM therefore regularly updates. You rightly ask whether this is relevant for the assessment of the applicability of this article in the legislative proposal. The answer to that question is, of course, no. Before you can speak of a similar degree of transmissibility, so transferability between vaccinees and unvaccinated, it must have fallen very strongly. At 3G, the vaccinated or the cured person is always safer than the one who goes in tested. So: yes, of course, over time, there is a reduction in vaccine effectiveness. Fortunately, this is hardly on the most important element of vaccine effectiveness. But indeed, on transmission that is the case and on effectiveness against infection that is the case. That is why these investigations are being updated at regular intervals and the figures updated. Does that affect the added value of the corona tickets as used and as proposed in the cabinet bill? I don't think that's the case. Can I confirm that there is a half-half-distribution in the test street? Yeah, but that's very special. The number of people aged 18-plus who have not been vaccinated is now 11.3%, and they contribute half to the number of infections. So a much smaller number, a much smaller group of non-vaccines now contributes half to the number of positive testeds in the test street. We also know that compliance with staying at home with complaints and having you tested among unvaccinated patients is lower than higher compared to vaccinees. Then I think this is an understatement of the fact that people who are not vaccinated are much more vulnerable to infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u286	Mr. Nicolaï. I'll allow one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u287	I heard the minister say there's a regular update. I also asked: when was it updated? I note that something was said on 4 October on the basis of data from July to September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u288	Regular updates are being made. Of course, the number we pay the most attention to is vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation. After all, it is relevant for the booster campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u289	You continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u290	But these other data will also be updated as soon as new studies are available which are sufficiently wide, robust and robust to draw conclusions on this basis. Then there is a very sharp question about Article 22 of the Constitution. It's sharp, but of course it's right to ask him. Have we complied adequately with Article 22 of the Constitution in the case of this booster? As far as I'm concerned, the answer is yes. And why? Because we have asked the Health Council every time we had occasion to do so: we want to be advised on the context of this moment, the context of this autumn, and on the added value of the booster at the moment. Just after the summer, the Health Council found that it was not the time to start the booster campaign, because no reduction in vaccine activity was seen all over the place. This has given rise to the need not to start the booster campaign at that time, but to start with that third shot called booster campaign in other countries for the people who have been immunocompromised. By the way, I would like to say that it is interesting, but this is rarely mentioned, to look back at the debates that were held at the time on the booster. For example, a motion was tabled at that time not to want to start the booster campaign in the autumn, because all available vaccines had to be made available to the Third World. That was also in line with the WTO's call at the time. He said: the best contribution to public health is to increase the vaccination rate elsewhere as soon as possible, so don't use shots for a booster, because those pricks should actually be put as a primo protection elsewhere in the world. There was also a motion in the Lower House with the call: do not start with the booster. That motion has been supported, among other things, by the Party for Animals. I would just like to say that the reality of things has also changed, including in the political discourse. Eventually the Health Council advised on 3 November to start the booster. That booster campaign started on 18 November. In short, I think there has been a very short time between that advice and starting the booster campaign. Mr Van Rooijen asked whether extra attention could be paid to nursing homes in the booster campaign. We are looking at what we can all pay extra attention to. In any case, I think that all over the place should speed up the booster campaign. So that booster offensive is about to start. But also with the current acceleration that has already been applied, the numerator stands at about 700,000 set and run-off pricks at the end of the week. Then death in the nursing homes. I would like to go into this in more detail, including the investigation of Hertogh, but I will do so in the next progress letter. I'd like to go into that more closely. Then there is the question of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u291	Mr Van Rooijen, I too would like to ask you a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u292	Mr President, that is possible. Very good. The Minister has just mentioned, in the earlier term, all kinds of numbers about the boosters, about where we are about. I counted with you, Minister. Could you repeat those numbers in a letter and perhaps back them up a little bit more in detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u293	I'd love to. I'll do that on Friday, because I'll have them even sharper than I do now. I will do so on Friday in a separate letter, which I will also send to the First Chamber. The SGP, Mr Schalk, asked for further consideration of Article 11 and the protection of fundamental rights. I think you can see in particular where Article 11 is concerned that no fundamental right is absolute. Where the protection of the integrity of the body is concerned, of course, it is true that if you go further in vaccination obligations for non-vaccines that is or could be an impairment of Article 11. At the same time, you must note that the freedom we grant to people not to be vaccinated or not to feel obliged to be vaccinated, the exercise of that fundamental right by non-vaccines, of course means a greater degree of infringement of that same right to the physical integrity of people who do not get a place in the hospital at the moment because that place was already occupied. That too is a violation of physical integrity. So, within the balance alone, the constitutional balance, in Article 11, there is a clash of the law of one relative to the law of the other. I think that we should simply conclude that no fundamental right is absolute and that it is always about the weighting of fundamental rights in the context of the importance of these same fundamental rights for other groups of Dutch people for whom the government also has a protective role to play. So yes, indeed: fundamental rights protect citizens from public intervention, but at the same time, certainly in the light of Article 22 of the same Constitution, the government must also want, dare and intervene with respect to the fundamental rights of others. Then I'll move on. As far as the questions are concerned, I believe that the question put by Mr Karakus is still on the table. He says, about that package of measures: you need to be able to continue to explain what is actually the purpose of that package of measures. I'm attached to that, too. I actually think that the common ground that connects us, however much we disagree, is: how can we ensure that care remains accessible to all of us, to all who need care? This means, in the short term, simply intervening and taking firm measures, which are not good, which are very restrictive and which also restrict fundamental rights, in order to ensure access to care as much as possible for everyone. That is the aim of the measures in the short term. Then the goal is to still be safe, but also as open as possible to get through the rest of the winter. That is the purpose of the measures that we are now adding to the toolbox, so that they can be added at some point as an alternative to the very restrictive measures. That is the purpose and that is how I want to keep trying to explain why we are doing what we are doing. And then you are absolutely right: you need to be able to maintain measures. And if you can't maintain them, assume control will deteriorate. And if the control is going to deteriorate, then assume that compliance will also eventually deteriorate. Compliance, control and enforcement go hand in hand. I already told you about the 45 million. I have already told you about the availability on the part of the cabinet of additional resources for the sectors to further strengthen control. I have told you about the weekly monitoring of compliance and that we really want to see that compliance goes up. You have said: I really want to see this included in a plan of action, based on the discussions currently taking place with the security regions and with the sectors. I would like to assure you that I would ask Mr Grapperhaus to send you a separate letter on compliance, control and enforcement. That integrality is part of that. Then I'm at the end, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u294	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-9.u295	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill shortly after a brief suspension. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled.
