ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35092, Amendment of the wind energy at sea (supporting wind energy at sea).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Crone of the PvdA. Our groups wish to begin by congratulating the new Secretary of State on her new role. We have followed her in recent years, and we are very looking forward to working together over the next few years, no matter how long it will take. It has been twelve years since the foundation Nature & Environment, together with Eneco and OMA, the agency of Rem Koolhaas, released their vision of wind at sea. That was a very beautiful, ambitious vision, with the task of exploring the potential of wind in the North Sea and proving that by 2050 there can be as much energy generated with wind at sea, so sustainable, as from fossil sources. In the meantime, the cooperation of the Sea Force has emerged. That became one of the driving forces behind the wind farms at sea. It is at the basis of the Energy Agreement and it recommended that the European Union continue with wind at sea and the ambition to reach 300 gigawatts in the North Sea by 2050. The Dutch Wind Energy Association has now brought that ambitious plan to an even higher level, with the result that we now have the possibility of non-subsidising wind farms at sea. I see that as a wonderful proof of how the natural and environmental movement, together with industry, can make huge visionary plans. It shouldn't be surprising that a law called "supporting the challenge of wind at sea" GroenLinks and the PvdA certainly sounds like music to the ears. That could be the case for anyone from the Low Countries, because sea and mills are in our DNA. Contrary to what is sometimes thought, I know that GroenLinks and the PvdA dare to make choices here in sometimes difficult discussions and dilemmas. Because the challenges we face in the energy transition are accompanied by difficult choices, both financially and ecologically. Then it is mainly looking for a careful path and preventing irreparable damage. Our input will focus on four main questions. Has the government thought well about the process, so that the transition fits well with developments in industry? Our second point is the focus on the grant-free roll-out in contrast to precisely a kind of broad welfare approach in relation to costs. More about that later. In addition, we have some questions to get more insight into the contract for difference and whether this is also realistic in the Netherlands, also in the light of the motion adopted. And last but not least, we would like to discuss how, in addition to a good business deal in the short term, you can also create a viable business model in the longer term, with the focus not only on generating wind at sea, but also on nature development and circularity. Wind at sea is crucial to tackling climate change and our energy transition. So it's also a success story that we can be proud of. The cooperation between the nature movement and industry has so far led to a spectacular reduction in costs and a massive scaling-up of capacity. This has been done with virtually no or even a positive effect on ecology. But in order to make the Netherlands a significant hydrogen hub, whatever goes with it, much more needs to be done. GroenLinks and the PvdA are therefore in favour of this law, which, on top of the existing ways of managing wind at sea, introduces new ways. But our groups also have concerns about the implementation and impact and believe that the current ambition of just over 11 gigawatts at sea is too low. This is also indicated by the PBL. Our first question is therefore: does the Secretary of State consider a doubling of this ambition realistic? Can it include in its reply the enormous possibilities for green hydrogen and the hub that can become the Netherlands? What is the green vision of our new Secretary of State for Climate Change? Can she take us into that? Mr. Chairman. In the Sahara, the sun still stands up for nothing, but in the meantime solar parks also generate huge amounts of money. And in the future they will only become more important for European energy needs. These parks could not have been built without initial public investment. The same applies to wind farms. Many years ago, we were talking about subsidising the en masse and about guaranteeing higher energy prices for wind, and I'm finishing it for a while now there's almost a fight going on, yes, even foreign companies to put those windmills at sea without or with little subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mrs Kluit asked the Secretary of State about the doubling of the number of gigawatts at sea. The 2030 target is 11.5 gigawatts, but does GroenLinks think that is realistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u5	Yes. We believe that this is a realistic ambition. At the same time, you know me from other debates. You always have to keep looking at it in a broader perspective. You want to take great steps in terms of climate, but you also want to ensure that the side effects are well addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u6	But if I understand correctly, GroenLinks thinks the doubling of 11.5 gigawatts is realistic. We're talking 23 gigawatts. If we get above 10 gigawatts now, we have to come up with something and connect ashore. It's got to be after 10 gigawatts. Then we already have problems with Germany, which has to pay for the discharge of too much produced power when it blows very hard. If it blows really hard, you can have a good time putting 30 gigawatts there. How are you going to do that? You say you want to look at it more broadly, but how the hell are you going to roll out that 23 gigawatt in practice and connect it to the net? Now it can't be above 10 gigawatts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mrs. Kluit, not too wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mrs Faber always assumes that if you come up with new problems, you can't solve them. The solution to this scaling-up will still have to be found in some parts, but in this particular case, there is already, namely the hydrogen economy, the storage of energy on an energy carrier that you can use in other places. I call aviation, transport, industry. You can use them very well to make energy more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u9	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u10	Now I understand you don't think that's a problem. If we convert it into hydrogen and hydrogen back into electricity, we need more than twice the capacity. Then it is true that you have to have twice as many windmills to realize the same thing as now. Now I understand your attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u11	I'd like another comment on Mrs Faber. This is the reversal of cause and effect. You raise a problem, there is a solution, and then you find that solution again a new problem. We can bring excess energy to Norway or Denmark via a distribution system, but if you can't, if you get negative prices, you can turn it into hydrogen or battery technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u12	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u13	The chairman looks very strict, so I have to keep it a little short. I wasn't talking about hydrogen, but right now, the technology is so far away that we're gonna lose 60% if we start working with hydrogen. Then I come to my reasoning that you have to place twice as many windmills to get the same return.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u14	I would advise Mrs Faber to look into the fossil conversion rates, which are sometimes much worse. A sector that is so badly needed to maintain our basic facilities deserves as much support as the fossil sector in the Netherlands. So infrastructure needs to be built. This also costs society money, and can therefore influence the electricity price of households. Even now, however, the production of wind energy at sea is cheaper than the production of energy from fossil fuels, coal, oil and gas. And we're just getting started, because the technology is really renewing. The European Union is investing in offshore wind farms for the next 30 years, accounting for 300 gigawatts. That is the energy consumption of some 170 million households. It's possible. The aim of this law is to speed up public procurement of wind farms at sea and to speed up the construction of related infrastructure. An important part is therefore cooperation with the industrial cluster and the further roll-out. Can the Secretary of State reflect on the situation so far and take a look at how the Dutch government is going to respond to the issues of more profitable auctions, the realisation of infrastructure and the coherence with the sustainability of the industrial cluster? What context of policy and regulation does the cabinet intend to develop? Mr. Chairman. I come to the more fundamental points of my group. These are in line with the Council of State, namely the choice of the method of distribution and the combination of procedures, as well as the possible extension of the duration of validity of an authorisation granted. The elements that may be important in the decision-making process are not legally anchored. This raises problems of legal certainty and transparency for equal treatment. The government clarified the explanatory statement, but did not accept the section's most fundamental criticism, as the government saw problems there with the inclusion or non-inclusion of subsidies. We do not think the answer is clear enough. If subsidies are issued, you can make all kinds of demands and conditions. But it is precisely when no subsidy is given that you have to include clear criteria in the law why a particular process is chosen and why a particular party rolls out at the back. So my question is: can clear criteria be incorporated into the law? GroenLinks is also concerned about the feasibility. The necessary link between transitions in industry and the transition of energy generation is of great concern to us. Are you gonna be okay soon enough? It is also a criticism of the Council of State that a coherent integrated legislative programme is not yet in place in all instruments. What should be arranged where? Do we have enough insight into that? How are the different laws and rules related? What do you do where? And how do you do that in time? Can the Secretary of State state state whether it shares these concerns and how it tries to prevent and circumvent the problems that may arise in this regard? The letter with the appreciation of the North Sea Energy Outlook states that non-grant roll-out of wind energy at sea remains the starting point and that the focus is on good connections. Can the Secretary of State explain this choice and also address the point that, according to our groups, wind energy at sea should not be the goal in itself, but should be the result of a broader strategy in which circularity, sustainability and ecology also play an important role? Our group is concerned that the focus on cost reduction can become so strong that the benefits of circular windmills and nature development may disappear into the background or disappear altogether. The government's replies show that 85% of windmill materials could be reused, but that the percentage that is circular is far behind and only 30%. Does the Secretary of State recognize these concerns? And does the Secretary of State recognise that an excessive focus on cost reduction and grant-free parks can counteract a sustainable chain development of the wind sector at sea? Many questions have been asked about the green image of wind at sea in the round of questions. Does the Secretary of State recognise that this green image can be damaged if we do not take good care of ecology and circularity? How is the government going to ensure market conditions that remain attractive to society in the broad, nature as well as to investors in the short and long term? Then I get to the point of contract for difference. All the necessary changes have been made to this in the Lower House and in the written questions rounds. The possibility of leaving open precisely that situation where industrial needs cannot be properly matched to the generation of sufficient renewable electricity via wind at sea can contribute to the objectives of this legislative proposal. The government indicates that in the short term there is not sufficient certainty for investors and that therefore a safety net construction is being investigated to prevent the wind on sea roll from slowing down while waiting for industry. A motion was passed in the House of Representatives on the contract for difference which asks the government to look at the possibilities of this form of contract and at auctioning with a minimum price and combined tenders of wind with electrification or with hydrogen. The government was due to report before the summer. It's summer now and we sometimes feel the temperature. Is the research in concept already known at the Ministry and what are the contours of this or the conclusions? In its reply, the government states that, in order to enable a contract for difference in the Netherlands, all kinds of legislation must be amended, such as the wind energy at sea, the Awb, sectoral legislation, tax legislation and even the Constitution passed. I would like more clarification on this separate system of rules. Who says that mixing subsidies and levies into one instrument encounters fundamental objections? Is that included in the investigation that is expected? How does the Council of State view it? If it is true that the introduction of a contract for difference requires a separate and complex legislative process with many implications, is the government prepared to take this forward with determination? Does the government agree with GroenLinks and the PvdA that the system of subsidy and levying in one instrument will be more appropriate in view of the enormous challenges we face? Perhaps we should let go of the idea that they are two different routes and should we look at it in more coherence? Is it also a solution that, for example, guarantees or guarantees. co-paying to the uneconomic top of wind farms is not done by a government but, for example, by large industrial customers, who can thus secure the purchase and price of energy, as they used to do with large consumers and fossil power stations? Mr. Chairman. Environmental organisations generally welcome marine wind farms and see them as an essential contribution to national and international climate policy, which is also essential for nature. However, they call for additional measures to prevent the parks from becoming harmful to nature. The construction and operation of wind turbines causes disturbance in marine habitats, in particular through noise and vibration, which may be harmful to birds and marine mammals. Moreover, the need for space can be at odds with the EU's intention to give 30% of the seas around Europe a protected status in the context of biodiversity policy. To point out that all the solutions are flawed: the same goes, of course, for the tar sands in Canada, oil from Saudi Arabia and gas from Russia. That too has a price for nature. But that also applies to wind and solar parks. However, the world no longer has time to look at these developments in the same way. We no longer have time to deal with this exploitative way of generating energy. With the current generation of renewable energy we must do right away, as far as our group is concerned. We don't have time to lose any more species. It is therefore important to achieve production as fairly and sustainably as possible, without irreparable damage to nature and the environment, and not to allow it to land in groups in society that cannot pay it. A simple race to the bottom in terms of the price of wind farms is therefore no longer entirely present, because we understand that a healthy living environment is also the basis of a healthy long-term economy. We are convinced with the PvdA that this is precisely the sector of wind farms that has this on the retina. It is also important that our national governments and the EU create the right frameworks to continue to stimulate them. This sector is innovative and can do a lot, but let us not forget it. This can be done from a broad welfare perspective, triggering entrepreneurship but also nature and environmental protection, while at the same time looking at circularity. How does the government see that? I'd like a reflection. What can we challenge the new Secretary of State to think not only from the perspective of a commercial wind farm, but rather from the development of a commercial natural park at sea, where windmills are an essential part of it? But they must be designed in such a way that they are also a beautiful source of biodiversity, which then offers opportunities for fishing. And to come back to the beginning: nature and the environment and entrepreneurship are mutually reinforcing. That was clear 12 years ago, but they are still mutually exclusive, in the short but certainly in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I shall now give the floor to Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of my group, I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State on her new position. We, too, look forward to working together. Today, the amendment to the Law on wind energy at sea is before us, a change which may result in less subsidies being granted for the installation of wind turbines at sea. My group believes that if we want to meet an energy demand by means of wind turbines, this will have to be done by means of offshore wind turbines. My group does believe in public support, and this is lacking in land-based wind turbines. As soon as plans for wind turbines, whether or not in the middle of a nature reserve, are presented, the local population and nature conservation organisations will always be involved. They now find the European Court of Justice on their side. Absolutely understandable of course, because wind turbines are bad for health when they are too close to the building, destroy the landscape in a very profound way and nobody wants them in the backyard. In addition, wind turbines are extremely bad for biodiversity. In particular, bird and bat populations have to pay for it. Recently, a rare lamb vulture was killed by a wind turbine. Sea eagles and other feathered friends are also on the menu of these nature-inclusive meat grinders. Every day, countless birds die. Only the exotic species make the news. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the durability of windmills is extremely moderate, and I still express myself very kindly. They are produced from materials that are both very environmentally unfriendly and are mined in a humane manner, and then shipped from a faraway country. When they are written off, the scrap is hardly reused. Answering questions from my group on this point indicates that this is not possible at the moment or is hardly possible. If that is still the case, I ask the Secretary of State. Decoration of the landscape, c.q. horizon pollution, bird status damage and lack of durability. They're usually such sacred houses in this room. These are three major objections to wind turbines for my group. The element of landscape is overcome by building the wind turbines at sea. This is a step in the right direction, but in terms of biodiversity and in general, because of the impact of these colossals on life in and at sea, our concerns have certainly not been removed. The North Sea is part of one of the most important global migratory routes. We have a responsibility, including internationally, to prevent bird mortality. From that point of view, my group proposes that wind turbines at sea should be fitted with a black rotor blade as standard. We do not want, like the government, to wait for a pilot of at least three years. The results of an authoritative Norwegian study show that one black rotor blade reduces bird mortality by wind turbines to 71%. My group is considering a motion on this point. Then the objection of the very limited durability of wind turbines. The wind turbines currently used at sea consist of 70% of abiotic primary raw materials, so-called virgin materials. The answer to questions from my group shows that the government wants to reduce this percentage to 50%. That objective is recognised as "ambitious'. That doesn't promise much good. My group wonders whether this objective should not be formulated more clearly and whether a minimum percentage of virgin materials should be taken into account as a criterion in tenders, in order to balance suppliers. On this point, too, we are considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. One last question to the Secretary of State and I will conclude. What happens if the acceptable bird mortality is exceeded? Will wind turbines be stopped or dismantled? And who's gonna pay for that? We look forward to your answers. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Berkhout. Then I give the floor to Mr. Pijlman on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, congratulations and welcome to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. On 11 June 2015, the First Chamber was established for a new term of office. Five days later, I was allowed to make my maiden speech about the Framework Act wind at sea. At that time there were a lot of doubts, of course at the PVV, but especially at the CDA. Wasn't there too much subsidy? Was wind energy in this size really necessary? Was wind energy at sea really the great promise? Or was it a fund-raiser that made the energy transition unnecessarily expensive? If you look around now, you can see how different the mood is. Wind at sea has completely fulfilled the promise. It is now even possible to create large wind farms in the North Sea without government funding. The development has been so successful that the law can be adapted to anticipate the forthcoming roll-out. The core of the current draft law is a strong leadership role for the government in the choice of location, investigations and licensing, and standardised grid connection by the network operator at sea. Competition allows the third tender to be provided without a SDE+ grant. This will create the first parks in the world that do not need a subsidy and produce electricity at a reasonable price per kilowatt hour. For the parties in favour, compare this with the development of nuclear energy in England. In short, the roll-out of wind energy is a great success. We would like to congratulate the government on its approach. In order to support the roll-out until 2030 up to 23 gigawatt yields per year, the law is now being amended. Moreover, it is not the case that all tenders are necessarily issued without a subsidy. It's still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mrs Faber on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u20	It was entrapment, too. I admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u21	That's okay. That's what we're here for, isn't it? That's the beauty of physical assembly. Fortunately, we can do that here in the Knight's Room. Mr. Pijlman keeps a hallelujah story: there is no need for a grant. Now let's turn off the subsidy tap. That's what Mr. Pijlman claims. But Mr. Pijlman isn't talking about the billions that need to be pumped into the net. In fact, it's a relocation of costs. Until 2023, 4 billion will have to be paid. From 2023 to 2030, we are talking about 5.5 to 6.5 billion. We'll talk about 10 billion. Those 10 billion are, in fact, costs that were first borne by the operators. Those charges were taken out of there. It's very easy to say that we don't need a grant anymore. We'll fool each other, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u22	No, we're not. You are quite right that in the coming years considerable investment will have to be made in the network increase. We have a fundamental difference of opinion about the energy transition. If you read back your own contribution from six years ago full of cynicism and negativity, and about the fund-raisers, you will also have to conclude that you were completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u23	I don't want to say that I was completely wrong. I was just talking about the $10 billion that went over the table here. Mr. Pijlman is of course from D66. The elite don't look at a billion more or less. I have a constituency that has to make $850 a month. I don't have to come up with "10 billion is nothing." In any case, you cannot blame me for not being consistent. At that time, we warned that these costs would rise out of control. Now we see another 10 billion going over the table. In addition, there is something I will return to in my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u24	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u25	I don't have a question. I gave you an explanation, so I'm gonna sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u26	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u27	I don't care about that anymore. By the way, these 24 seats of ours in the Lower House are not just elite. Mr. Chairman. I said that these tenders do not necessarily have to be without a subsidy. This remains possible in the proposal. The proposal makes it possible to use electricity generated at sea directly for industry, or to convert it on land into other energy sources, such as hydrogen. Hydrogen will be absolutely necessary to enable the greening of industry, for example chemistry. Can the Secretary of State indicate what the timetable for hydrogen is now, including in relation to investments from the Future Fund? Furthermore, the ports of Rotterdam and the Eemshaven are increasingly concerned about the nitrogen problem and also about the roll-out of this programme. I ask the Secretary of State: is this dossier slowing down the roll-out and landing of wind farms? In the debate in the House of Representatives, there was a lot of debate about the contracts for difference and it has just been mentioned by GroenLinks' colleague, GroenLinks, in which subsidies and charges are combined in one proposal. Such an instrument can benefit, but I am now convinced that this is very complicated in the Dutch situation. You announced an investigation that will be completed in the summer. Can the Secretary of State inform this Chamber about the results? Wind at sea is a success. Unlike wind energy on land, it also encounters little opposition. For this reason too, the momentum can continue. However, in order to maintain support, it remains necessary to embed the wind farms well at sea and to carefully plan the landing of the cables. For the parks above the Wadden Islands, it has been chosen to allow the landing to pass through the island of Schiermonnikoog. I get there a lot and I know the area very well. I think it's a really bad idea. The cable must pass through an area that is closed for much of the year to man, because of its unique nature value. Very heavy equipment will destroy a kilometer long strip of at least 50 metres wide very vulnerable nature. The whole environmental movement is right to hope for this, and there are therefore long legal procedures at risk. There's an alternative around the island. This will be more expensive, but natural values must prevail over economic costs. You have promised a further investigation in the House of Representatives and I believe that Royal Haskoning is doing so at the moment after which the decision-making process will take place. We assume that you will allow the value of nature to prevail over economic costs. The route around the island will have to be adapted in the future for several reasons. The supporting surface is also important here. Even if this costs extra money, you shouldn't go for the cheapest solution. Compare these costs with the billions of aid, every year, for the fossil industry. When will the results of the further investigation be available and can you inform our Chamber about this? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group is looking forward to the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, of course, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State to our Chamber. Collaboration, yes. If we're going to dismantle those windmills together, yes. But if we're gonna put them into business, no, unfortunately. But that is a political consideration and not a personal consideration. Mr. Chairman. Judging by the PvdA climate pope Timmermans, who sold his soul and salvation to the consumer of especially his original supporters, the worker, the VVD Secretary of State comes up with an unfortunate proposal: the already intensively used North Sea must be filled with all kinds of uneconomic windmills. If the planned plans are actually implemented, according to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, 20% of the space in the North Sea may have been seized by wind farms in 2050. The Dutch fishing industry, which is already struggling to keep its head above water, is at risk of losing a large part of its fishing grounds. This is on top of the ban on pulse fish, which has also been imposed by the European Commission. It seems that innovation is not desirable for every sector. It's more like: the wind blows, so my jacket blows. Apparently, the Secretary of State of the VVD House, once a party that used the slogan "work, work, work" to go to the elections, has no problem getting the fishing industry, a part of our food supply, to squeak. She prefers to saddle the Dutch economy with a very expensive and uncertain energy supply. This is bad for the economy, bad for businesses and bad for households. It is therefore not for nothing that this green stream dream should be spent on billions of euros of subsidy and tariff increases, all of which must be brought up by end-users. The market simply does not want to go into business with windmills on its own, so it must be seduced with a bag of money. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the Secretary of State boasts with a cost reduction. Windmill parks could be realized with less or without subsidies. But then they still have to be connected to the net at sea by TenneT. TenneT Holding is a Dutch-German company in which the Dutch State has a share. TenneT will pay for the costs. Up to 2023, the budget is EUR 4 billion, which is paid from the SDE+ pool, generously spent by households and businesses through imposed storage. Oh yes, TenneT also gets a gift of 780 million euros, free to spend for other fun projects. How much is spent on the net at sea is not known if they only achieve 40% reduction in costs. The question is: does TenneT have the possibility to spend the EUR 780 million, or part of it, on unregulated projects? Where does this amount end up in the holding company? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to that 4 billion euros from the SDE+ pot. If TenneT doesn't come out with that bag of money, then they too may grab into the end-user's pockets. In fact, they are allowed to compensate for these additional costs in the rates. Is TenneT too late delivering a net at sea? Are there any malfunctions? Then there's no man overboard either. The bottom of the SDE+ pot is deep and secure of income. The end user is legally in the grip, with the result that too little financial incentives for TenneT to connect wind farms at sea in time and to keep the grid at maximum availability. The Secretary of State is aware of this. It has been warned of this by the Authority Consumer & Market. Well, our kind of people take good care of our kind of people. And so the 40% reduction in costs is moving further and further out of the picture. The phase up to 2023 is only the pre-programme of what is to come. The period thereafter, up to 2030, requires an additional €5.1 billion to €6.1 billion for the offshore grid. It seems that these costs are also paid through the network operator's charges. Is this assumption true? Or did those extra billions come from somewhere else? And what about those additional grid adjustments that are needed once the installed power at sea is more than 10 gigawatts? In 2030, the State Secretary wants an installed capacity of 11.5 gigawatts to windmills at sea. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Operators must also achieve a 40% reduction in costs, as agreed in the Energy Agreement. If market forces remain intact and they significantly expand the number of wind farms, then there is a good chance that they will shoot in their own foot. At present, the size of these wind farms at sea is about 1 gigawatt. By 2023, 3.5 gigawatts should have been squeezed to end in 2030 with the target total of 11.5 gigawatts. In short, a significant increase in windmills with a significant increase in peak hours when it turns nice. You'd think, "Let it ring, that till!" However, during peak hours, the electricity price will decrease, as it is determined by the market on the basis of supply and demand. As the number of windmills increases at sea, electricity prices will fall during peak hours. Not very good for sales. You may be lucky if you do not have to pay to get rid of your excess power, as has already happened in Germany. If the price of electricity falls, the subsidy will increase per kilowatt, provided that the free market is manipulated and that can happen just like that. After all, socialists like a makeable society and the once so liberal VVD is just playing along cheerfully. You should not be surprised if you are going to use a CO levy to boost the energy price, so that you can triumphantly get your own right. Useful idiots can then proclaim that wind energy no longer needs a subsidy. And who knows what other tricks they have in store. Because what about that electricity exchange EPEX SPOT, which is dealt with in electricity? In addition to being a shareholder in this stock exchange, TenneT has also delivered two Commissioners from its own ranks to this stock exchange. TenneT has an interest in building wind farms at sea; otherwise they have nothing to join. The operators of these wind farms in turn depend on the price evolution of the electricity price, especially if they have to run with less or no subsidy. To what extent does TenneT influence the electricity price? Is there a conflict of interest here? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Okay, then you can start storing excess power in energy carriers at peak hours, like hydrogen or ammonia. With the current techniques, the loss is about 60% of the original generated power, with the result that you have to generate two and a half times as much wind energy to get the same number of kilowatt hours ashore. It's not efficient either. In addition, TNO reports an additional problem: the scarcity of, among other things, the expensive platinum, the extremely rare iridium and the niche raw material zirconium. It is not possible to determine whether operators are actually going to achieve the agreed 40% reduction in costs. You then wonder what it's like to set a goal if you can't determine if you've actually achieved it. You can distract the attention by saying that this cost reduction relates to the tender amount, but then you just fool around. The tender amount shall be the amount, expressed in kilowatt hours, for which the operator shall be able to carry out the construction and operation of the wind farm at sea. But saying and doing are two different things. The tender amount shall be calculated by the operator on the basis of costs, the subsidy amount and the profit/risk margin. The General Court indicates that the internal figures are not known and that they cannot therefore assess the reduction in costs. But I'm going to give you a note saying that this data is really well-known to the Demissionary Cabinet. The question arises: how does the profit relate to the subsidy to be granted? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr President, I will conclude. The cost of wind energy is sky high. They're all higher than fossil energy. The PVV Group is not opposed to innovation, but it must make sense. There is nothing innovative about filling the North Sea with windmills. And where are you going with that pile of garbage after writing off those windmills? So we're gonna bury those cookies, too? Or are we going to crush them and label them as ground, and then dump them as granules in deep puddles as a basis for new nature? The party colleague of the Secretary of State, Mr Halbe Zijlstra, who seems to be involved in everything and at least was involved in the Project Over de Maas, must have a process for that. In short, this whole exercise does not lead to a sustainable policy, but to an expensive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. A warm welcome to our Secretary of State on behalf of my group and, of course, on behalf of my group chairman Annemarie Jorritsma. I hope the Secretary of State will also visit us many times in our new house on the Voorhout. I don't want to anticipate any cases, but I hope so. Mr. Chairman. Wind energy is a necessary part of our energy mix. Can it, if possible, become grant-free? The VVD is in favour of as much wind as possible at sea, solar panels on roofs and sound screens and as little as possible on the mainland, because we can use our scarce space better, cherish meadows and natural landscapes and try to avoid as much nuisance as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u32	I was very integrated when Mr Van Ballekom of the VVD mentioned the energy mix of the VVD. What does that energy mix look like? Is there room for nuclear power?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u33	Mr. Otten has the good use of not letting me finish. Because I'm still coming up with that energy mix. If he has any patience, he'll see his question answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u34	Then I would say: continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u35	That's what I thought, Mr. Chairman. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are also disadvantages associated with wind energy at sea. Mr Berkhout, on behalf of the Nanninga Group, has asked pertinent questions about this, also with a view to heading as far as possible to circular wind farms. That's right. But I understand that 85% to 90% is already recyclable. I may be wrong, but I would like confirmation from the Secretary of State. If so, I would say: on to 100% recyclability. However, the energy intensity of windmills at sea remains relatively low and the lifetime of these parks is relatively limited, partly due to corrosion. In this respect, it is not the solution, but, as has been said, a necessary part of our energy mix. Mr. Chairman. Space is scarce, not only on land but also at sea. There, too, nature conservation plays a role, preventing or reducing as much as possible damage to birds and encouraging aquaculture. Space is also needed for shipping, for oil and gas extraction. Fishermen also try to earn a living. With the agreement of the VVD and the CDA groups, the government pays due attention to finding a responsible balance sheet. Our groups want to underline the importance of the fisheries sector. That is a sector that is already not easy and will welcome a little support. Mr. Chairman. All this also indicates that it is necessary to speak with a former Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Wiebes, that any form of energy production has its advantages and disadvantages. There is no ideal way yet, although a newly launched project of General Fusion from Canada, to be realized in Culham, is promising. I advise everyone to take note of this, including our Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u36	I want a little bit back. Mr Van Ballekom said that attention should also be paid to the fisheries sector. Does he agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that if the wind farms also contribute to ecological development, it will also benefit the fisheries sector? For example, you get breeding rooms in which young fish can grow up, so that they may actually be caught later as adult fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u37	It could be. That is why I have also mentioned aquaculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u38	Aquaculture also sounds like farming fish, but I mean that it can happen in a natural circumstance. So I'm saying that you're lifting up the entire biodiversity, because you have places where you have wind energy, but also because of that you have some rest at sea, where things can grow up. Does Mr Van Ballekom therefore agree with me that the focus should not necessarily be on grant-free, but that the question is: how does a wind farm contribute in width? I mean not only energy, but also, for example, how this contributes to marine biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u39	The VVD is against any subsidy at all. This is only a way to stimulate something at first, but it is not sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u40	My point is actually another one. I wanted to go to the next thing. You can make demands. You can get subsidies for energy generation when that cannot be cost-effective. But you can also set criteria for a wind farm for what else it has to contribute to the environment. If that means that it is more nature-based, and therefore it may no longer be possible to grant subsidies, does Mr Van Ballekom agree with me that in those criteria you should also ask for other things than energy generation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u41	Well, if a wind power park is being built at sea, it's energy generation. If there are any additional advantages and disadvantages, the government will keep an eye on them and we will take them into account in the discussions. But to say yes or no to that now, without knowing exactly what advantages and disadvantages are added to it, is impossible for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u42	Mrs. Kluit, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u43	Then it would be a good idea for the VVD Group to take a look at this, because these offshore wind farms can have much more functions than just power generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u44	That would be wonderful. It is in the vision of the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u45	Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u46	Ah, Mr. Otten. I'm not at the energy mix yet, Mr. Otten. You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u47	But I have already given Mr Otten the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u48	Mr Van Ballekom may not understand the idea of the First Chamber, where you also have dialogue and respond to what is being said. I just heard that the VVD is averse to subsidy. I heard Mr Van Ballekom say that. This year alone, 5 billion will be spent on the SDE grant to build these windmills at sea. What's going on at the VVD? Do you have a flurry of insanity, or have you put GroenLinks permanently on the side of the road? I don't understand anything anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u49	I do not know what it is that Mr Otten does not understand me, but I said that a permanent subsidy is not a sustainable way forward. You can grant subsidies, for example, to get certain initiatives off the ground, but that does not mean that you can keep up with subsidies for generations. That is not the way we want to go, at least. I do not know what the Otten Group thinks about this, but that is not what the VVD Group wants. Mr. Chairman. It is clear in the VVD's view that in a responsible energy mix I now come to the energy mix, Mr Otten.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Unregulated sources should be complemented by regulatory sources, such as nuclear fusion or nuclear energy. Why nuclear energy? Not because there would be no drawbacks to nuclear energy. As I said, there are disadvantages to all energy production. No, that is to increase CO-neutral electricity production in a society that is becoming more and more dependent on electricity. And it is absolutely essential if we want to get the hydrogen economy off the ground and attach importance to a certain degree of independence when it comes to our energy supply. In short, a necessary complement and, given the manageability of the disadvantages associated with nuclear energy, justified. I am convinced that the Secretary of State fully supports these principles and intends to steer them in this direction as long as there is still an opportunity to do so in this cabinet period. If not, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. In any event, it may point out the importance of these points in the event of a possible portfolio transfer. Mr. Chairman. So much for my contribution, which I have already understood, on behalf of the CDA Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u50	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I call Mr Dessing on behalf of the Group of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u51	Mr President, thank you. Also congratulations to the Secretary of State for this hopefully a little longer period for you than it looks now, but you never know. Mr. Chairman. The support for the placing of huge numbers of landscape pollutants and for humans and animals health-distorting wind turbines on land is crumbling through the increasingly concrete realization of the Regional Energy Strategies facilitated by the provinces. Even destitute proponents of energy transition now suffer from the not in my backyard syndrome and see these birds grinding and wiggling flow of mega-turbines rather stand with their neighbors or to an ever greater extent than in the North Sea, with no regard for the enormous noose that this, as has already been mentioned, means and is about to mean for our fishing industry. A sector that is already struggling with the EU's pulsating of pulse fishing. With the Act supporting the issue of wind energy at sea, a further step is taken in implementing the energy transition, as the Demissionary Cabinet is now taking this forward as implementation of the Climate Agreement. The current law opens the way to increasing the capacity of wind energy from 1 gigawatt to 11.5 gigawatt by 2030 until 2030. Despite the fact that this law does not yet provide new wind energy areas and the designation of new lots for this, there will be many megaturbines at sea in the coming years. There is much to be said about this law, because in addition to streamlining the licensing process and abolishing the licensing requirement for incoming transport cables to transport all this flow to the mainland, this law also paves the way for other energy carriers, such as hydrogen and ammonia. For these energy carriers, therefore, the way is open to new pipelines and even to use energy-using ships to transport them. This brings me to the following questions to the Secretary of State. Is it true that the government, under the flag of wind turbines at sea, is actually going to encourage the construction of hydrogen plants and ammonia plants, whether at sea or not? How does making ammonia production possible in the future actually relate to the present nitrogen crisis, where farmers are punished for producing too much nitrogen? Is it true that pipelines and ships will soon be subsidised for the transport of hydrogen and ammonia and, if so, from what means? We are considering a motion on this question. Why were we going to do all this again? As a technocratic society, we are going to invest a huge amount of money in systems for reducing CO emissions with the aim of reducing the rise in temperature in the Netherlands by 0,00007°C at best because of the doom scenario of a sea level rising by meters, which is actually a stable 2 millimeters per year. Even hydrogen is now in the picture for this. This puts us in a difficult position, because for the production of hydrogen, as has already been mentioned, a huge amount of energy is needed and a lot of energy is lost in the transport of hydrogen, so we are going to generate energy with even more wind turbines at sea. Why is hydrogen important for the realization of the energy transition? This is because the obligation to get rid of the gas means that the coal plants will be closed down next week, and that the so-called environmentally friendly and CO-neutral combustion of biomass, alongside nuclear energy, will not be much more than the hope of a hydrogen economy. This hydrogen is not only to be used in the car engine of the future, but also in combination with CO for producing synthetic kerosene through a complex and expensive process. In this context, I would like to present the following to the Secretary of State. Is it familiar with the Everest project of Tata Steel, in which this steel producer intends to combine a number of so-called synthesis development options with the production of hydrogen in IJmuiden and the North Sea through CO storage in empty gas fields in the North Sea? To what extent is the Everest project of Tata Steel a harbinger for the large-scale production of synthetic kerosene made from COen hydrogen intended for aviation at Dutch airports? Or is this just about the production of hydrogen-based steel, for which Tata Steel alone needs one gigawatt of green energy? To what extent is the State Secretary aware of the request from the Province of North Holland to accelerate these development options through a provincial coordination scheme? Does this mean that both Chambers can also look forward to a request for the launch of a state coordination scheme for the implementation of this project and, if so, when is this going to happen? In addition, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how she intends to cope with the great pressure on the already heavily loaded energy transport network with all these plans. Are there not disproportionate costs involved? And does hydrogen transport include the use of pipes that are now used to transport our natural gas? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Although at first sight this law does not seem to be very far-reaching, in the opinion of our group it is indeed a harbinger of many energy transitions that we must protect our citizens from. With this law we are going to stimulate the need for even more wind energy at sea for producing hydrogen via a complex chain, an inefficient energy carrier. This hydrogen is then intended to be used for the production of expensive synthetic fuels such as synthetic kerosene, as a substitute for highly efficient kerosene, which in turn is a residual substance from the production of other fossil fuels. What exactly are we doing? The effects, the practical impotences and the astronomical costs are now slowly becoming apparent. My group therefore wonders to what extent we should continue to try to squeeze this huge square block through this tiny round hole. As far as we're concerned, we shouldn't want that. In any case, for the time being, we should not adopt a law that will facilitate the installation of even more wind turbines in our North Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u52	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. I give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. First of all, it's good to see this Secretary of State in this Upper House. At least for me, that's the first time. We wish her every success. When the so-called energy agreement was concluded, everyone was at the table. Everyone except the Dutch electorate and the Dutch taxpayer. And that's good to see. Without significant democratic control, a complex system of complex measures has been established, with all kinds of special interest groups that were at the climate table taking particular care of their own interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u54	Does Mr Otten know the title of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u55	Supporting wind energy at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u56	And? This law is based on the Climate Agreement. We are talking about it now in Parliament. How then can Mr Otten claim that there is no democratic control over the measures resulting from the Climate Agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u57	Parliament is, of course, faced with an accomplished fact from the Wiebes climate tables. There was Jan and alleman, Ed Nijpels and everyone at the table. Industry and all kinds of sub-interests were also present. This is then carried through the Lower House with a lot of art and flying work. So yes, the origin of this agreement is indeed shaped by all kinds of sub-interests outside the Lower House, and in any case outside the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u58	Once again, Mr Otten indicates that there is no democratic control, while we are currently discussing a law in the First Chamber which allows the agreements to be drawn up in a previous agreement. How can he then consider the statement that there is no democratic control? He can say that this control is insufficient or lacks quality. But he certainly cannot say that there is no democratic debate, because we are doing so now, at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u59	No, but the creation has been such. When I say to Mrs Kluit 'here you have a plate of pasta; you can say whether you want green or red sauce, or else you say you don't want it', there is no fundamental discussion. Of course, there has been no fundamental discussion as to which energy mix I am calling the VVD. Do we want to focus on nuclear energy? Of course, that is also very CO-neutral, without people having a windmill in their backyard. Your own electorate in IJburg is not waiting for that either. We have not had that kind of discussion, and I do not know that they have had any real content in the House of Representatives either. There is an accomplished plan that has emerged from what has been thrown on the table by all kinds of lobby groups and it has been said: swallow or suffocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u60	It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u61	We can agree or not, but there have been several debates on the Climate Agreement. Halfway through the period of the Climate Agreement, there has also been a debate in the House of Representatives on the direction it was taking. I agree with the content of differences of opinion, but I find it very problematic when we have parliamentarians who say that there is no democratic debate on laws resulting from agreements during the debates on the legislation resulting from those agreements. I think we should stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u62	I'm here to help Mr. Otten a little. It's about the climate tables. My colleague Van Hattem has tabled a motion on this. I don't think it's been fully implemented yet. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mr Van Hattem has tabled so many motions that I do not have them all as ready, but I can remember that we supported that motion. If that is not the case, then we can do so, but we must take note of the exact text of the motion. Mrs. Faber says we'll help Mr. Otten. I thought your speech was excellent, by the way. Our group fully agrees with that; very much in terms of content. But of course it is a fact that all kinds of natural and environmental foundations, Greenpeace, everyone, sat at the table there, but the Lower House and the Upper House are then confronted with the result. So it is not true that this has now been a fundamental discussion, I say to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u64	This is what I meant by my question. Mr. Van Hattem has asked for openness on the climate tables. It's still not given. That's what I wanted to help you with. But that signal didn't come across entirely, because I have to ask a question from the chairman, otherwise I'll be directed back. That's why I asked, are you aware of this? If you simply say yes, then we can show the GroenLinks colleague, Mrs Kluit, that it really happened behind closed doors and that we still have not received the full reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u65	That is therefore unacceptable. We are in favour of maximum transparency and not back room politics. That is why I have gone into politics to increase transparency. So we're all in favour of that. I totally agree with Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u66	Everyone thinks I'm an economist because I've worked in the financial sector for 40 years, but I was raised and educated in Leiden. If I were a Member of the House of Representatives, I wouldn't want to sit at such a climate table, because then you could be compromised in advance; that certainly applies to a Member of the House of Representatives. I think that is a perfect way to prepare something, so that, on the basis of these results, the government can come up with a legislative proposal on which we can judge in all independence, in the Lower House and in the Upper House. If you put those people at the table, they will be indirectly responsible for what the outcome of such a table is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u67	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u68	In other words, what is the alternative that Mr Otten would like to outline here to give it a better public support? I don't see that alternative that easily, but maybe that's because I graduated 40 years ago and not recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u69	I do see that alternative. The cabinet rules. We agree on that. You will have learned that in Leiden with state institutions. The cabinet does not rule by putting all kinds of groups, environmental and industrial clubs together in a hotel and telling them to figure it out. We don't hear about it anymore and it's not transparent, but then the cabinet does present it to Parliament with the message: boys, you can do a little bit more work on it, but this is it. No. We should have had a fundamental discussion on what our future energy strategy looks like. Is there a role in this for nuclear energy, wind, sun and so on? It's not fed. It's presented as a failure accompli.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u70	Thank you. I propose that we now close this constitutional procedural discussion and return to the content of the bill itself, not to the fact that the bill is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u71	I think that is a very good proposal, because we can always vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u72	Mr. Otten, continue your argument of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u73	I only said two paragraphs, so I'm gonna move on. The Dutch people have checked and will soon be able to cough up huge costs via a much higher energy bill. Where we normally hear parties such as GroenLinks and PvdA almost merged into the Green Workers' Party endlessly about the importance of broad prosperity I have heard that just from Mrs Kluit, this concept is apparently no longer relevant in the climate transition of left-wing parties. The plans lead to energy poverty and greater income inequality, and windmills do not exactly increase the wide prosperity of people living right next door. But you don't hear the Netherlands on the left: everything has to go for the windmills. Mr. Chairman. I come back to Mr Van Ballekom's question: why is Dutch politics not able to put the broad lines and the general interest at the centre? Why hasn't there been a fundamental discussion about nuclear power, for example? A clean form of energy, without CO emissions instead of filling the whole of the Netherlands and half the North Sea with windmills. The coalition agreement included the task of achieving an additional reduction of 4 megatons of CO emissions by 2030 through wind energy at sea. Let's put this in perspective. The estimates vary considerably, but the whole world emits around 40 to 50 gigatons of CO per year; a gigaton is 1,000 megatons. So the world's CO emissions are about 50,000 megatons, or 50,000 billion kilograms of CO. After the Netherlands quickly closed down the Hemweg coal power plant after the Urgenda ruling at the end of 2019, CO emissions in the Netherlands decreased to around 166 megatons per year on a worldwide emissions of 50,000 megatons. The Dutch CO emissions are 0.3% of the total global annual CO emissions. In comparison, China's CO emissions are more than 10,000 megatons per year and account for between 25% and 30% of annual global CO emissions, mainly due to the many inefficient coal plants in China. But we in the Netherlands are closing the world's most environmentally friendly, high-efficiency and resource efficient coal plants early, resulting in enormous capital destruction. But now the Netherlands will save 4 megatons of CO emissions by building the North Sea with wind farms under the energy agreement. Then we are going to build a power cable right through the unique Wadden Island Schiermonnikoog, a rare piece of UNESCO world heritage. As I said, the broad prosperity of the Dutchman differs from the windmills' wicks. Mr. Chairman. As far as our group is concerned, we should invest quickly in additional nuclear energy, starting with the addition of two additional nuclear power stations in Borssele. This will take about the same amount of time and money, and will provide electricity in a much more reliable way than wind and solar energy, and will not be accompanied by huge investments in a partly submarine network, a point that Mrs Faber has already raised in detail in her contribution. In Zeeland they are now used to nuclear energy, the waste can be stored and processed very well, and it also provides an impetus for the Zeeland economy. Mr. Chairman. Are windmills now mainly involved in subsidies? If we have to believe the Rutte cabinet, it'll all be over soon. We have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. How much subsidy has been granted to the Dutch wind energy to date, including commitments and commitments? Second question. How much funding is expected to be spent until 2030? Indeed, the SDE budget for 2021 alone is already 5 billion. Third. When does the Secretary of State think that we have reached the point where we no longer need a subsidy and how much subsidy have we lost as a total taxpayer? Now, of course, we're not here just to build the windmills in the sea. We also need to establish a huge network for the transport and storage of energy. The cabinet praises the many economies of scale resulting from the fact that only state-owned company TenneT is going to build this network. In 2009, investment guru Wouter Bos saddled Dutch taxpayers with a huge investment obligation of 35 billion euros in the German electricity network, which was purchased by TenneT through an unfortunate takeover. I have discussed this extensively in this Chamber a number of times in the past, including when dealing with the Invest-NL authorisation law in 2019 where our group extensively reviewed Mr Wouter Bos' investment track record. Meanwhile, the financing of this huge investment is very shaky, after the German government has indicated that it only wants to participate in that financing in exchange for a majority stake in the German networks. In itself, an understandable demand from the Germans. The cabinet then decided, through Minister Hoekstra, to stop negotiations with the Germans. What is the status of these negotiations with Germany with regard to TenneT, is our question to the Secretary of State, as this is very important for the viability of TenneT and therefore also for the network of windmills in the North Sea. Are the costs of building the wind energy grid at sea by TenneT included in calculating the cost of the "grant-free" wind energy? And how much are those costs? Windmills run on subsidies and not on wind! This was on the VVD election posters that were on display across the country a few years ago. Our group is not yet convinced whether this really is the case with wind at sea, because it is not clear whether all costs are passed on to the operator and whether or not they are passed on to the taxpayer via TenneT. We would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State in which year, according to her, wind energy at sea, including all related costs of transport and storage, can take place without subsidy. We look forward to answering these questions by the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u74	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr Pijlman on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u75	Yes, Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has always called for nuclear energy, just like others here. Now there may be a lot of future potential in that when you talk about fusion or thorium. But are you also following the debate on nuclear power in England? The Sizewell plant is the construction started in 2012 and will not run until 2032 is the expectation now. The state has had to provide heavy subsidies and guarantees for electricity prices, because we already know that they cannot be market-based at all. And the cost has now risen to 20 billion. If there are so many huge problems coming at you, you can't say rationally: that's where we have to go. So I would like to ask GO: what is your energy mix now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u76	Well, if the English don't manage that properly, that doesn't mean we have to imitate it. Look at France, where I think 75% or more of the energy has come from nuclear power since the 1970s. There are countries where that works fine. We see a greater role for nuclear energy, because it is CO-neutral. Several parties have already recalled that you can regulate it. Wind energy generates a lot of energy when it blows hard and then you have to start storing it. You're gonna have to apply electrolysis processes. Then you convert it into chemical energy and hydrogen. Then you lose at least half on the way if you have to convert it back. It's a pretty inefficient way to save that. Smaller nuclear power plants are now on the market. There are many examples of this. We think the problem is manageable. We see a much greater role there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u77	Well, I would point out that the English, who have always continued with nuclear energy, do not manage it. We have stopped the whole process and that is why all knowledge is gone. It's extremely expensive and it doesn't work. You say that wind energy also has disadvantages. Then what are you doing in the meantime? Even if you're in favour of nuclear power, there won't be a power plant tomorrow. Then what are you doing in the meantime? Do you accept, for example, wind energy as a temporary solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u78	Preferably, if necessary, at sea. We have already recalled, last year in the Act on the Prohibition of Coal in Electricity Production, that in the Netherlands we have power stations with 40% efficiency or more, which are among the cleanest in the world. In China, half of coal's energy supply comes from very uneconomic power stations. We want to tackle the problem on a global scale. If we're gonna do anything here, it's like throwing an ice cube in the North Sea. That's not gonna lower the temperature. You have to deal with it globally, the most polluting plants first. That's not happening right now. We're the best little boy in the class, but the world isn't making much progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u79	Mr Pijlman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u80	That is what you are saying: we want to tackle it globally. For this we have a Climate Agreement and the Netherlands must comply with it, but also China and other countries. That's the global approach, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u81	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u82	Yes, but of course it would be much better if you started to shut down the dirtiest coal power stations and not the newest that are six years old and the most modern in the world. They are now closed: the Maasvlakte, Eemshaven, you name it. They were built very recently. Your Minister Brinkhorst, from D66, put all of this into action because he wanted more clean coal energy. The whole world's switching to gas and we're quitting gas. We have a fantastic gas infrastructure system in the Netherlands. Some people think that can also be used for hydrogen. I think there are still some hooks and eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u84	Mr President, I would like to add a few words to this. As you understand, my group has also argued in favour of nuclear energy. In this sense, we support that part of Mr Otten's energy mix. But that does not mean that we want to build generation-4 nuclear power stations, as in the UK. That's the point that causes problems. No, you just have to build generation-3 nuclear power plants. That's technology on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u85	What's your question, Mr. Van Ballekom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u86	They can be built in seven years at reasonable cost. It's not a question, it's a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u87	A comment can be made in the second period. An interruption is for a brief explanatory question. If you have a short question, please, otherwise save it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u88	Okay, then, in the second term, I will tell you how we want to achieve this nuclear energy as an energy mix. It should not be the case that a one-sided picture is being sketched, because that is a wrong picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u89	We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u90	I would like to thank Mr Van Ballekom very much for this addition. I think that we, as the Netherlands, should work with proven technology and not become a pioneering country in this area, something we are doing now with this energy transition. The Netherlands is a trading country. The Netherlands is very good at things that are proven to work and to sell them further in the sail of peoples abroad and so on. But in order to do everything as pioneers, I do not think that Mr Van Ballekom is right. I do not think that our education system is at all tailored to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I shall now suspend the sitting unless one of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u92	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35092, Supporting wind energy at sea. We have arrived at the answer of the government in the first term. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a great honor that I may be present in the First Chamber exactly a month after my swearing in to speak about such an important bill. I am pleased to see that in this House too Members are not restricted by what is on the agenda, but have taken the space to ask me very broad questions. I'll do my best to answer them that way. Today we are talking about wind at sea and how we can change the law so that it fits much more with current practice. This adjustment is urgently needed. Indeed, since the roll-out of wind at sea in 2015, a lot has changed. I have heard several Members say that. At the time there was a lot of attention to the cost of wind at sea. That's quite understandable. These costs were very high, especially the expected costs for the subsequent period. In the meantime, the Dutch approach has proved very successful. I think I heard from GroenLinks and the PvdA say that nature and the environment and entrepreneurship can go hand in hand. That's what we're really seeing on this file. I can totally go along with it. This approach, in which the Empire takes the lead and ensures that all the preparations and conditions for the wind farm are in order, has led to the last three wind-on-sea tenders being completely non-subsidised. In 2015, no one expected this to be achieved within a year, I think. Still, it worked. In our country, the first non-subsidised wind farm, worldwide, is being built. That's a very special fact. The legislative change we are talking about today will ensure that our approach with grant-free tenders will continue to be successful in the future. That is important for a number of reasons. First of all, because grant-free wind farms at sea are one of the cheapest options to meet our climate goals and are also an important means of keeping the energy transition affordable, especially for the people at home. By building wind farms at sea, we ensure that our society and economy can be sustainable in an efficient and timely manner. Without wind farms at sea, the energy transition in the Netherlands would be really much more difficult and expensive. Secondly, because wind at sea is one of the climate measures for which there is most support. I also heard several Members mention this. It is also apparent from research carried out by TU Delft and Utrecht University. Wind at sea contributes to the fact that the task on land does not need to be increased. In 2030, winds at sea generate more energy than all winds and suns on land together. Thirdly, because we have an excellent and unique starting position in the Netherlands in relation to other countries around the North Sea. I would like to mention a few advantages. Our part of the North Sea is relatively shallow. Saves the cost of building wind farms. There is a relatively short distance from the wind farm to the internationally branched electricity, gas, and future hydrogen grid on land, which in the long term offers opportunities to export green electricity and hydrogen and for companies to earn from it. Our supplying industry and ports have an important role in the chain. Many wind farms in the English and German parts of the North Sea are also built from Dutch ports. And the wind farms in the North Sea are right next to our industrial clusters and also close to the industrial clusters of the Ruhr area and Antwerp. This is a huge opportunity for making industry more sustainable, and there have been some questions asked about it, which I come up with and at the same time keeping jobs in our country. So it's a unique position that we need to take advantage of. With wind at sea, we can make our economy more sustainable. This allows our companies to stay sustainable, competitive in time, but also remain active in the Netherlands, with all the jobs we want to keep here. That is why it is important that we create the right framework conditions so that we can take advantage of this opportunity. So that's what we're doing with this bill. Of course, it is important that, in the design of the wind-on-the-sea policy, including on the basis of this law, we constantly look at how different interests are interrelated. Until recently, I was of the opinion that the North Sea was very large. But it doesn't turn out to be. In the meantime, I know how many interests and functions in the North Sea, such as defence, nature, fishing and shipping, need to be considered in conjunction. Your Chamber has asked good questions about this in the report on the legislative proposal. I would like to stress the essence of what we are aiming at with this legislative amendment. It's actually very clear what's on the table. The wind energy at sea Act regulates the responsible spending of lots for wind farms at sea and provides the instruments for this: tender procedures and permit conditions. With this bill, we're improving those instruments. The distribution of space at sea between the various uses at sea takes place under the direction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State in the North Sea programme 2022-2027. This indicates wind energy areas at sea. So that's not what we're doing with the bill before us. For the Wind Energy at Sea Act, those designated wind energy areas are a given. The law determines the way in which the Empire issues lots within the wind energy areas. So the law is not about spatial considerations, I repeat. This legislative amendment contains three main proposals: Extending the maximum permit period for offshore wind farms from 30 to 40 years. This is, of course, to strengthen the business case of developers; More possibilities when it comes to licensing. A comparative test with a financial bid and an auction will be added. That gives us more room than just looking at subsidy or a comparative test. We're getting more instruments; The possibility of providing the wind farm developer with financial security as a guarantee that the wind farm will actually be built. That too is quite important. In short, this legislative amendment helps us to secure our goals until and after 2030, but also to ensure the affordability of wind at sea. Mr. Chairman. I learned in the Lower House that I have to tell the chairman in which blocks I am going to give the answers. I've got five. I'll start with the business case and the financial variants. A number of questions have been asked. Then I come to ecology and circularity. Then I have the link of wind at sea with industrial challenges and challenges. Then I have a piece on hydrogen, and I have a few questions under the heading. Now we're going to what I called the business case. Or rather, that's what my officials who just helped me did. The production of offshore wind farms should be a normal profitable activity for market participants. A profitable business case is therefore an absolute prerequisite for successful future wind energy growth at sea. It doesn't fit in with subsidies for wind farms. I just heard the VVD say: you can give subsidies for a kickstart, or to get movement going and stimulate innovation. Permanent subsidy, forever, I don't think we want to be with each other. That was just a sensible discussion. Wind at sea shows that there is no need for subsidies, and that it can be much faster without subsidies. This is, of course, extremely important, because it saves costs for people at home and for businesses. It's as simple as that. I would like to add the following. In March last year, my predecessor published an investigation by research firm Afry. I don't really know how you pronounce that. It was about the future business case of wind at sea. The main conclusion of this study is that wind at sea will only remain profitable if the growth of supply and demand is well coordinated and the necessary infrastructure is in order. I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u94	About the costs: the Secretary of State says that we no longer need the subsidies. Then why don't we stop that right now? Why should 4 billion be taken out of the SDE+ pot for that net at sea? In fact, we're fooling each other a little bit by shifting costs. First the operators had to pay for the power outlet at sea, I'll say. Now it's just coming out of the SDE+ pot. If the budget of 4 billion out of the SDE+ pot is exhausted, it simply comes back into the rates. Are we not kidding our users when we say that we are no longer paying subsidies, while network management rates are rising? That comes back to users' accounts, because someone's gonna pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u95	That's a fair question. It is said that the wind farms at sea are non-subsidised, but you have to get what you produce there to land. Well, there's a grant for that. At some point that will be included in the network charges. In order to make this transparent, we agreed with each other in the Climate Agreement to free the wind farms from subsidies. Luckily, it can be done so soon. We're very happy about that. And indeed, the costs of the network have to be paid. Costs for network management, maintenance and in this case also the construction are made normal. How that works is very transparent and very clear. Because we do not want to do this permanently or permanently in the form of a grant, we agreed in the Climate Agreement that we would make this transparent by saying that this goes to the user. Then you can differ on whether you want to have those wind farms at all and whether you want to realize or weigh up the net at all. But if you choose to do so, I think the majority will choose to do so and believe that this is also necessary in terms of content, then I think it is a way of developing it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u96	The Secretary of State is talking about transparency; she wants to make it more transparent. But the pain in the wallet remains, of course, the same for the consumer. First of all, we were talking about a storage facility. I think it is two and a half cents or one and a half cents for network management. That was first with the operators, but in fact it was simply transferred. In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that these costs are there, but then the fact that the total costs do not ultimately go down. We'll just move them. We'll put it in two jars. It has become a kind of ball-ball, but it is now only under two of those cups and no longer under one cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u97	I don't think the costs continue to rise or stay very high, and they've just been moved somewhere. In a few years, from 2015 until now, we'll be building grant-free parks. That already shows a very nice development. But you still have to pay with each other. And that the nets need to be tightened, even later on ashore, we will undoubtedly get to talk about this in this house. Those are the facts. If you are convinced that you want to invest in the energy transition that, in my opinion, can ultimately bring a lot of comfort and lower costs for the people at home too, then these facilities are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u98	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u99	Thank you, Chairman, for the coulance. We have a tender amount. There is also a bit of subsidy in this tender amount, because at the moment the electricity price drops, the subsidy goes up. I've already talked about peak hours in my input. The more windmills we build, the greater the supply during peak hours, the lower the price, so the higher the subsidy. Then we shouldn't go here and tell them we're gonna do it without subsidies. Then we just have to draw a line. I will support you in that, and I will work with you. We will then draw a line and abolish these subsidies on these tender amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u100	The Secretary of State, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u101	In my view, it is very important that we really name what is really happening so that we, and also the people at home, know that these wind farms are now being built without subsidies. That's very nice. There is today a legislative proposal which allows us to extend the instruments, so that we no longer have only two instruments from the government, either with a grant or with a comparative test, but that we can also vary in them. That's what's in store today. I was just looking for the questions Mrs Faber had asked, so I might be able to take them with me right away. I think she has just repeated some of those questions, so I can take that up for a moment. Among other things, Mrs Faber had a question about the extra costs in the tariffs. She had also asked this question in terms of: where are the financial incentives for TenneT? I think I hear you very clearly that this is coming back. This 40% cost reduction is the reduction achieved when TenneT builds the network at sea compared to the situation where a connection to the grid is realized for each wind farm. In that sense it is cheaper and easier if TenneT does it integrally at once. I hear Mrs Faber expressing some concerns about this. She wonders who is watching all this and how it works, so I have at least interpreted it. TenneT's authorised income is regulated by the Authority Consumer & Market. So TenneT should only recover the efficient costs. In this way, the ACM assesses whether the costs incurred are not always unnecessarily high and whether they are efficient enough. This is the system we used together. There's real control of that, too. That was one of Mrs Faber's questions, but there was another question from her in this connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u102	Mrs Faber, you have another supplementary question? Because if we now respond to every response in the event of interruption, it will be a second deadline. Do you have a short supplementary question, or would you like to respond in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u103	Mr President, I understand your reasoning, but the Secretary of State says that she is going to answer my questions, so I could be maneuvered in the situation that I can no longer respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u104	Yes, you can respond to the answer in the second period. If you have a short supplementary question, you can certainly ask it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u105	Thank you. The Secretary of State is only talking about network management now. Of course I understand that it's cost-effective if you're gonna even that out. But I was also talking about the operators. The General Court has indicated that it is not possible to determine whether the cost reduction is actually taking place. The tender amount includes the operating and maintenance costs, but also the profit risk margin. And it's not known. Nor does the General Court. So it indicates: so we cannot determine to what extent there is a reduction in costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u106	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u107	In my first term, I asked the question: what is the profit-risk ratio compared to the amount of subsidy given for the operation? I had to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u108	I think I understand the question. I also understand what Mrs Faber is saying, because you expect a reduction in costs. Can you decorate it like that from now on? That is something I think is important to say: TenneT's permitted income is really under supervision. It is closely monitored how that develops and what the future looks like. I suppose I will have to come back to the House of Representatives, and perhaps here too, to tell you what its impact is and how it went. Mrs Faber also made a relevant point. That was about the 780 million from TenneT. She was right to ask whether Tennet had the opportunity to spend 780 million on unregulated projects. How can I keep an eye on where it's going? That 780 million is for the costs that TenneT has to incur in advance of construction. They may recover those efficiently incurred costs. That happens every year. This is monitored by the ACM. The 780 million is a capital injection by the shareholder in order to make the investment. The ACM also ensures that it is not spent on other items. So if Mrs Faber is worried about where that money is going: that really goes to the goal. We may differ on the purpose, but at least it goes to that purpose and it cannot be used for other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u109	Thank you. Do you have another reaction, Mrs Faber? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u110	The Secretary of State is kind enough to answer all my questions. That's gonna save you a run in a minute and so time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u111	But again, we are not all supposed to interfere with every response from the Secretary of State. That is not the structure of the debate. The structure is that we respond in the second term of the Chamber. But for brief, enlightening questions in the event of interruption, you are certainly welcome. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About the 780 million: can they also use it for the installation and maintenance of these various sensors on platforms, such as weather stations and navigation radars? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u113	If it's okay, I'll get back to that in the second term. I do not think so, but perhaps I do not interpret the construction of such a net well and give Mrs Faber a wrong answer. If it's okay, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u114	I'll give Mrs. Faber a hand, Mr. Chairman. The comparison she makes with ball-ball is, of course, correct. I myself have the concept of windowdressing, to use just one word, for what is happening here. The Secretary of State says "we no longer have a grant," but then there is a regulated monopoly of TenneT. There is a great deal to be said to allow TenneT to do so alone, but if you get it as a monopoly, there is of course no incentive to do so efficiently. That doesn't matter either, because you just charge it through the energy bill. Look at the ODE, the storage of renewable energy, which almost bankrupts half the Westland. There's no incentive to do that efficiently. Mrs Faber is right in that sense. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is actually a form of windowdressing? On the one hand, the subsidy is abolished, where the ball disappears, and on the other hand, when the tax is charged on the energy bill, the cup is returned nicely. The VVD may say that windmills no longer rely on subsidies, but what is actually happening is that the account is transferred to the Dutch end user.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u115	Secretary of State, as far as there is another answer to be given: go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u116	Well, Mr President, with all due respect, that is not what is happening. I think that's a bit of a shame. What is happening here is that we are building the world's first non-grant wind farm. Not us, but it's being built. That's something to be proud of. That is what happens when entrepreneurship takes shape and what we have built together works on our systems. That means it's gonna be cheaper too. It will also be cheaper for, for example, the people and companies that produce the ODE, the storage of renewable energy. About this storage of renewable energy, but also about the cost of a net at sea, Members are right when they say that that is not the whole picture.... we are very clear. That is why I do not agree that this should be deleted as a windowdressing. It is quite clear which part is grant-free and on what part the costs are and how we intend to place them in the network tariffs. In the Climate Agreement, which has been the subject of extensive debates in the House of Representatives which I was allowed to hold as a spokesman, we have quite transparently separated all these issues and said: let us make sure that they come down in the right way. This also applies to storage of renewable energy: first 50% was paid by households and 50% by companies. But we have said that households have to pay a third less. So companies, the big users, actually pay two thirds. We may disagree about usefulness and necessity, but we are right in the middle of the movement in which we are transparent and the costs fall where it is logical and transparent. I am actually proud that we have managed in the Netherlands that these wind farms do not need huge subsidies. There's just no funding left. That's very nice! And we agree: there is a subsidy on the net at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u117	But this is, of course, a misdemeanor. We can say that we are taking some costs away from households and we are putting them down in business, but they are taxing them just as quickly. Eventually, the costs will end up with households via the energy bill. The energy bills are also running up dramatically. You can check all that yourself. Mona Keijzer had a bit of a fling about that a while ago. Then it all turned out to be a little more expensive than she thought. We can say that we take the subsidy off, but it comes to the Dutch energy consumer on the plate on the left or right. I haven't heard the Secretary of State say this isn't the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u118	Thank you. Finally, the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u119	Yes, but of course it is also a very important point that this energy bill should, in my words, be affordable and accessible to the people at home. That energy bill is made up of several elements. There are elements in it that we can do something about. That is, for example, the energy tax. That's the ODE, for example. It is also the taxation of energy, for example. We were able to bring them down with the Climate Agreement. We have said: with average consumption, it will be €100 less for the people at home. But there are also other elements in the construction of the energy bill, for example the cost of charging. And they depend on the global market, which is very influenced by what is happening in terms of supply and demand. Then it is very nice to see that, for example, wind energy can be freed of subsidies. In the end, it will hopefully mean that the costs will also go down for the people at home. So it's a slightly more complex story than if we only zoom in on one part. I think that is what Mr Otten meant. And I suggest we watch that together, so people don't pay too much for it. I really don't think we have any difference of opinion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u120	Then I suggest to the Chamber that we let the Minister finish the blocks and then we do the interruptions at the end of the blocks. Is everyone okay with that? Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u121	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u122	Would you please tell me when a block has come to an end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u123	Yes. I was still at the business case block. Actually, I could only have answered Mrs Faber. I will now go to Mrs Kluit van GroenLinks. She has asked a number of questions. One question was whether I consider it realistic to double the number of gigawatts at sea. And what is the role of hydrogen, for example, in the green vision of the Secretary of State? Thank you for these questions. It has been investigated by PBL that in 2050 at least 38 gigawatts of wind will be needed at sea if you look at the ambitions that the Netherlands stands for. The current wind energy policy provides for about 11 gigawatts of wind at sea. We are now in the process of identifying sufficient wind energy areas to be able to double in the North Sea Programme, for which my colleague is responsible. Then it's about 10 gigawatts extra in 2030. Among other things, there has been a motion from D66 in the House of Representatives. This can only be done if demand develops sufficiently. Of course, hydrogen and the sustainability of industry play a crucial role in this. They should go right on. At the time we were working on the Climate Agreement, I myself had a lot of discussions with industry, and I have of course had a lot of discussions with industry in this role. Industry clearly indicates that it can invest in order to make it more sustainable, but needs infrastructure and opportunities, including hydrogen. It is, of course, a very important part of the story that we on our side, as a government, deliver what is needed for it. That's, among other things, looking for that 10 gigawatt extra. I'm working on that with my colleagues. I will come back to it in the autumn and tell you where we think this is possible. And what I just said, of course, goes here as well. All the interests of the North Sea need to be weighed up and then you come up almost double, if I may interpret Mrs Kluit's question in this way. Hydrogen will therefore also meet the demand for electricity from wind at sea. Let's see. Further scaling up is, of course, to a new cabinet. That goes without saying. Mrs Kluit also asked whether, if there is no subsidy, clear criteria for auctioning should not be included in the law. If this law is passed, we have several instruments, including auction. In addition, there are three options. You get a comparative test without a financial offer, a comparative test with a financial offer and still the grant tender as a kind of fallback option should it once not be possible to realize a wind farm without a subsidy, because, as proud as I am that it is happening now, they are of course not guarantees. In the case of ministerial arrangements, rules shall be laid down in each of these authorisation procedures on the manner in which an application is made, on the information and documents submitted in connection with the application. In this comparative test, with or without a financial offer, it is possible to include additional criteria in the scheme in addition to the security of realisation and contribution to the energy supply. That is then possible. These may be additional criteria in the areas of nature, fisheries, ecology or safety. At auction, such additional criteria cannot be established, but I think it is good to say that you obviously have the area indication. That is what my colleague from IenW is about, as I have just said. There you look at how the North Sea is classified and where the windmills can be located. Then you have the lot decision. At these two decision-making moments, all these elements are weighed up. This certainly includes the importance of nature and ecology, but also the fishermen, about whom questions have been asked. I know that defence and shipping are also important components. When it finally comes here in this capacity, it's really about the technical side of how you grant a permit. I think that all the questions that Mrs Kluit rightly asked already have a place in the laws and rules that we have and the different moments that there are to make the decision. They can therefore be brought to the attention of the public by means of a comparative test. I think I answered that question with that. Then Mrs Kluit asked what context of policy and regulation I could give. I think that question was asked in relation to fossil and how we are going to use that transition. It is, of course, about the use of fossil energy sources. We are now in the middle of the transition towards the use of renewable energy sources. We need more wind energy at sea, but we also need more electricity grids, which the debate was about, and the production and transport of hydrogen, which we are actually starting with. It would be very nice if we could scale it up as quickly as possible. In addition, there is heat, such as geothermals, and of course the capture and storage of CO. Legislation on this is already in preparation. In addition to the bill we are discussing today, a bill on geothermal energy has been submitted to the House of Representatives. A bill on the Energy Act is still in preparation. In the autumn Climate Note, I will go into this further, and it will also be clear what the coherence of these different routes is. There are quite a few of them. Then Mrs Kluit asked whether the uneconomic summit could not be met by large companies rather than by the government. I have just said that the large consumers in industry are already paying the ODE well. Wind energy at sea doesn't have an uneconomic summit at this. That's good. The customers pay a market price and the industry is covered by the ETS. This summer we will have a lot of legislative proposals from Europe to raise our targets from 49% to 55%. Among other things, the commitment of the Netherlands will be that the ETS system will work even more efficiently, so that it will work even better, including towards industry. Then we have the Programme Infrastructure Sustainable Industry, the PIDI. It's full of abbreviations. I'm trying to pronounce them all. That will be at least an hour's speaking time, but I refuse to use all these abbreviations. Industry is also helping with that. So there is a lot of coherence, but in a lot of different places. In the Climate Note we will try to bring it together even more. Then I'll be with Mr. Arrowman of D66. He asked: what are the costs for the net at sea that TenneT builds? And why is that paid out of the grid charges? We were just talking about that. The cost of the offshore grid for wind farms under the Energy Agreement is 4 billion. That'll be until 2023. Over the 20-year depreciation period, this is on average 200 million per year. There's gonna be a lot of numbers and years now. The wind farms that come into operation between 2024 and 2030, as stated in the Climate Agreement, are further offshore and therefore longer cables and partly more expensive techniques are needed for the grid connection. Not everyone's gonna be happy about that, but that's what it's gonna look like. The total cost of these wind farms is 13 to 15 billion. Those are the total costs for the net, I must say. Those costs shall be spread over the entire duration. This amounts to 500 million annually, as ACM intends to put that at a depreciation period of 30 years. It is ultimately cheaper to let TenneT do that whole net at sea integrally. These network costs, like infrastructure costs, are paid on land by energy users. I believe that, since infrastructure is at sea, its funding should not come from a subsidy, also because of its structural character. Then you're stuck with that grant until the end of the day, so you're gonna have to redesign it. But we do have to pay for it, so it will be out of the grid tariffs, as we agreed with each other in the Climate Agreement. I think that's it for this question. I have more questions to answer, you know. Then we have Mr Berkhout from the Nanninga Group. He says that the tender amount cannot be checked for kilowatt hours. And how does that relate to profit and the subsidy granted? So how do you keep an eye out for profit? That's how I translate it. Mr. Chairman. In the grant tenders, parties offer the least subsidy. In that sense, the margin is already very low. Wind-on-sea tenders are highly competitive, so there's actually no room at all. Several renowned parties offer in those tenders. This led to very sharp bids, with the subsidy amounts being much lower than originally envisaged. I understand the question. But especially if you look at how fast we have been on grant-free since 2015 and how low we have been submitted, then there is no risk. I understand the question, but if you look at the practice, I think it's okay in that sense. Then there is Mr Otten of the Otten Group. When does wind at sea really become grant-free? We just talked about that. The wind farms at sea are free of subsidies and the net is paid for. Then I had a question from Mr Otten. He asked how much subsidy has been paid to the Dutch wind energy sector so far. There are a lot of numbers coming up on the offshore wind farms from the energy agreement. The energy agreement said 3.5 gigawatt extra wind at sea in 2023. This is expected to be between 2 billion and 2.5 billion. That is the energy agreement until 2023: 3.5 gigawatt and 2 billion to 2.5 billion. That's the total amount up to the end of the permit period, which will be about 2045 or a little later. The exact amount really depends on a number of aspects, on the quantity of electricity produced and on the market price, because the subsidy only covers the uneconomic summit. Of course, there's still a few things underneath that. Let's see. Perhaps I should add this; perhaps Mr Otten will find this interesting. The SDE grant concerns the Borssele wind farm, which was the first tendered in 2016. The Dutch Coast Zuid en Noord wind farms, which were tendered between 2017 and 2020, will no longer receive a subsidy. So the SDE grant is about Borssele. Of course, we hope that the future tender procedures will also be without subsidies. I think I've been able to finish the first block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u124	Thank you. Mr Otten had an interruption, I saw, and Mrs Kluit. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u125	Thank you for the answers, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u126	I was just about to say I've worked hard here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u127	Thank you for the clear explanation of what the procedure looks like, about how to incorporate ecological value into that procedure or not. What strikes me is that it is then chosen to place it in the spatial planning and the lot decision and not yet in the award criteria. What was so beautiful about earlier procedures is that the market is excited and that's what you're doing at the licensing stage. I myself would be sorry if those criteria for ecology, circularity, were not included in the permit procedure too, because they do not use precisely what this sector has proven to be so good at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u128	So it is possible if you do it with that comparative test, with or without a financial offer. Then you can set these additional criteria in the areas of nature, aquaculture, fisheries, safety or shipping. I had interpreted Mrs Kluit's question as specific about the auction. The auction is ultimately about the lowest bid, but then you have so called that order "all the rules and legislation, everything, well followed, where nature and ecology, everything, is weighed up." It has not been said that we will only use the auctioning instrument. It is very common for scarce goods to be auctioned from the government. We do this, for example, with telecoms. So that's one of the options, but with all the other options you can choose to weigh that up. So it really comes back to almost all the steps and I do not believe that it is an option in a country like the Netherlands not to allow that to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u129	Do I hear the Secretary of State say that there is some sort of orderality in the choice of the procedure in which the auction is at the end or is the auction the preferred variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u130	It will depend on the circumstances. It is also really published well in time and it is shared with the market as to what direction we are thinking about and what the instrument is that we are thinking about. This can also be the subject of a detailed response. So it's not like you, as a government, say on a point: "Failing is a preferred option, so we're going to auction. Not yet reported.' There really is a whole stretch ahead of it. Auction is an option, but we are very pleased that these options have been extended. That is also explicitly why we add, for example, that comparative test with a financial offer. We have seen that this can really be of added value. This will be widely shared with the market and there will be plenty of scope to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u131	So the answer is actually no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u132	I liked mine, too, Mr. Chairman. Come on, I've been working on this all weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u133	Do I ask the President or the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u134	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u135	And then you summarize what the answer was at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u136	Through the chairman to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u137	Let's talk about the cost of these subsidies. I had three questions about that. How many grants have been granted to the wind energy sector to date, including commitments and commitments? I just heard: it's about the sea, wind, 3.5 gigawatt. The Secretary of State says that this has cost 2 to 2.5 billion grants up to 2023, but there is also some kind of open-ended scheme in it depending on market prices. Then the first question is: what is the risk of this open-ended scheme, how big is it? The Wet wind energy at sea dates from 11.3 to 11.5 gigawatts, so we still miss 8 gigawatts. Then what is the subsidy for that 8 gigawatt that will be on top of that instead of just Borssele and those two other parks from 2016 and 2017? My second question was what is expected to be the total subsidy until 2030, so for that total... One says 11.3 and the other 11.5, so I'm going to assume 11.3 gigawatt. So there's a lot more to it. I'd like some clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u138	It's possible that different things are mixed up here. I could put this on paper sometime. I understood that the question was about the energy agreement, which runs until 2023, and was what was spent on it. That is the amount I have just mentioned. When it comes to the future, the wind farms that are still going to be built and what the subsidy is: that is zero. That's the good news today. I hope that's what we're gonna hold together. Is the question then what is the challenge in the Climate Agreement for the grid connection, from wind farm to land? That is what the 13 billion to 15 billion I was talking about just now, as we agreed in the Climate Agreement. That money is not for those wind farms, but for the mains connection. And the D66 motion states that we are looking for that extra 10 gigawatt task, also because we are facing a higher target from Europe, of 55%. We are now trying to find the places for that in the North Sea at all. When you see that, you will also know how far they are, what that means and what connection is needed. So I don't know what the cost of that is, because I don't know the places yet. I can also put all this together for a moment, because there are various agreements, years, things, and also defined subsidies. For wind farms at sea, the subsidy is therefore zero. But Mr Otten is talking about grid connection. It is also different whether it concerns the energy agreement, the Climate Agreement or future goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u139	I'm not the Secretary of State, and now she's just started, but if I started in that department, one of my first questions would be: well, boys, what are the risks for the next 20 years? If I understand correctly, the operators will operate the windmills without subsidies. And the 15 billion costs for the network are passed on to end users. Yes, then you can indeed run windmills without subsidies and then those election posters of the VVD are still based on some sort of truth. But that is, of course, windowdressing, to use a proper word. And maybe it's a folk trick, to use a less neat word. 'Cause you're just charging those charges in another jar. And so it's 15 billion, I understand now from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u140	We are already paying for the net on land, for the connections we already use every day. So it's not so crazy that a grid connection costs money. And the fact that it was first in the subsidy, before the grid connection, and then goes to the end users, is something that we have shared in the Climate Agreement, in that democratic process that has indeed taken place. That is where we thought: it is a good idea to put it so transparently with the end-users. I asked what exactly Mr Otten's question was. When it comes to the energy agreement, these costs are 2 billion to 2.5 billion. But that was still focused on those wind farms at sea. If I listen carefully to Mr Otten now, he meant the cost of the grid connection. These are 13 billion to 15 billion from the Climate Agreement. That's what I said at the beginning of my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u141	I just heard the Secretary of State say that the climate agreement was a good idea. I do not know if the Secretary of State has taken note of the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau which appeared late last night. I have read through this in preparation for this debate. This shows that very large groups in the Netherlands did not think that climate agreement was such a good idea at all. And they certainly don't think it's a good idea that the bill lands with them. Many people are quite aware of the need to deal with the climate, but a lot of people are very worried about the income inequality that it creates, and about whether they can still pay the bills. It is all very nice that this was conceived in a climate agreement, but I can assure you that many people in the Netherlands do not support it at all. That's what I've experienced during various campaigns. Mrs Kluit now says: no, that is all democratic. But if you ask the average Dutchman, it seems to me that he thinks this is going too fast. And that is also evident from the study of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Did the Secretary of State take note of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u142	Finally, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u143	I was very busy preparing for this debate this week so that I could give the right answers to the excellent questions. In the climate agreement, we also said that large companies and industry must pay more; the polluter pays. Not only did we say that, but we also shaped it. We have formulated a CO levy. We have said that this storage of renewable energy must be paid for two thirds by companies and for one third by households. And we have said that this tax on energy should be reduced by €100 on average consumption for households. I am absolutely not saying to Mr Otten that this has solved the affordability of the energy transition. This affordability remains a permanent focus. We also need to keep an eye on each other. When we consider whether people can carry it, we do have a slightly different debate. Because then it's about purchasing power, and about a bigger picture. In my opinion, that will not be Mr Otten's point. I don't think that's what he meant either; I just assume he totally agrees with me. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm at ecology and circularity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u144	I'll ask about the timing, Secretary of State, because you've been working on the first block for almost an hour now, and you've got four more blocks to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u145	Want me to talk faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u146	Of course, that is up to you. I only announce that if we do not make it before dinner break, we will continue this debate at 10.15 p.m. tonight, because we have another debate with your colleague Kaag first. That's what I'm gonna say for the agendas. I thought you'd continue with block two on ecology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u147	Perhaps the block of ecology and circularity can be faster, because we have just been able to treat a whole part. As I said, there is fortunately very strict legislation and regulations in our country for ecology and for the way we deal with nature, and to ensure that ecology in the North Sea remains protected. I shall now skip my text on this because we have already discussed it. However, we have not yet discussed Circularity. There were questions about that, too. The circularity of wind farms has great challenges. Fortunately, this also has the attention, not only from politics and society, but also from the market. Manufacturers and other parties involved are very focused on making wind farms circular. There's still a lot to do there. For example, one of the largest turbine manufacturers in the world, Vestas, recently announced that they have developed a technique for recycling wind turbine blades in the future. That would really be a huge step. Also from Economic Affairs and Climate is working on circularity of wind farms. Together with more than 100 parties involved in the wind industry, I am currently working on the so-called Moonshot project. There are currently many Moonshot projects and projects under Woman on the moon, but this project is really focused on the circularity of wind farms. This is being worked on together with energy companies, all major turbine manufacturers in Europe, knowledge institutions and so on. Then I'm going to continue answering the questions right now. Mrs Kluit said that the green image of wind at sea is somewhat damaged, which is a pity. That's a free translation, but I'm sorry. How do we ensure that market conditions are attractive for both nature and economy? That's what we were just talking about. We must continue to ensure that the impact of wind farms remains within the limits of the Nature Protection Act. That is a very clear point. You can't deviate from that. To map the cumulative effect of the wind farms on nature, the Framework Ecology and Cumulation, the KEC, has been established. In order to minimise the impact on nature, the plot decisions by wind farm require measures to be taken by the wind farm operators. So it's focused on customization. There is also a large monitoring and research programme that maps the knowledge gaps and the effects of wind farms on ecology. We still do. In ecological terms, therefore, this bill is an improvement, as we have just discussed. You have progress, precisely because we can select the comparative test on ecology and the strengthening measures. They can just take that into account. I think that answers Mrs Kluit's question. Mrs Kluit also asked about the disruption of ecosystems for birds and marine mammals by wind farms at sea. How are we going to make sure that not only money counts, but also the question of how to maintain the ecosystem and how to keep the balance in it? In order to protect nature as well as possible, it has been chosen to stay as far as possible outside designated nature areas when identifying places for wind farms at sea. That's why it's so long looking for extra place, because this makes it harder, even if it's right. This point of departure has been reaffirmed in the North Sea Agreement. Combining wind farms with nature reserves is therefore not a good idea, because you want to keep them apart. Inside, of course, you can always see what is possible, but you should not combine these two objectives, precisely because our legislation says: keep nature reserves intact. Mr. Chairman. The question by Mr Berkhout of the Nanninga Group is that it is still not possible to completely recycle wind turbines. That's right. They are made of glass fibres and with the current state of the art it is very difficult to reuse them. But the example of Vestas shows that the market is working very hard to make sure that that changes and that it can. That is what we are going to do in the Moonshot project with those 100 other parties, because everyone is upset that recycling is not possible at the moment. Mr Berkhout also mentioned biodiversity and impact of windmills at sea. That was about the black rotor blade, which may be the subject of another motion. Mr Berkhout says you're doing a pilot and then why wait? I understand. At the same time, an investigation has been started to see if those black sheets have that effect. That research has just been awarded, and it's about to start. We need that three-year period to see if this has the desired effect and no birds die unnecessarily. We must then see if this is the right solution. I understand the approach of the motion, but I would just like to wait for a moment to see if this is a solution. Mr Berkhout then also asked what would happen if the acceptable bird mortality was exceeded. Unfortunately, birds may die, but it must never be so that it puts a species at risk. That's acceptable, which, frankly, I think is a crazy formulation. What's being done? Before adopting a framework decision, it must be shown that bird mortality remains within an acceptable limit. That is a heavy test on the front, because otherwise you cannot take the framework decision. This is being reviewed by the independent Commission for the Environmental Impact Assessment. After that, a wind farm can only be built. The risk of finding out that it was different after that is very small in that sense. That is being studied at the front and weighed up by an independent committee, precisely in order not to find out until afterwards. There is currently research on how we can temporarily stop a wind farm when a group of birds swims by. You can do that just like that, and you can't always know that in advance. So now we're looking at how to stop it. Mr. Van Ballekom asked if it was true that 85% to 90% of these mills could become recyclable. How's that? The report that was produced in the Moonshot project with those 100 parties shows that you can get up to 85% to 90%. In the project we are now looking at what requirements you can make and how you can make sure that you actually make it. The fact that it can be done theoretically does not mean that it is done in practice. That's what we're in the middle of right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u148	That was block two of the Secretary of State on ecology. Are there any interruptions at the moment? There aren't any.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u149	Let me take a look at my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u150	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u151	Then I'll go to a question from Mrs. Kluit. She asked whether the government had given proper thought to the whole process, the transition of industry. What are we actually doing, so I have heard a bit. Connecting winds at sea to industry is really gonna make a difference. The moment you can make the industry more sustainable and keep the jobs in the Netherlands, you are uniquely busy, because everyone worldwide is looking for ways to do that. That results in the most CO reduction, you keep it here in our country and you don't drive industry away to countries where they have fewer rules on emissions and keep the jobs here. Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, I referred to this earlier, the Infrastructure Sustainable Industry Programme has been set up. It brings together supply, demand and infrastructure, so that wind energy can be reduced at sea where gas and other forms of fossil fuel are still used. That's the way they look at it. Then there's the Reconnaissance landing wind energy at sea. There we see where wind energy can be landed at sea on the coast. We are also looking at the question of where the energy is. I'll come back to that later. Perhaps you will have discussions about Schiermonnikoog, about which I have just received some questions. So you're looking at where the demand is, where the supply can take place and what that looks like. You will then be working to minimise the impact on the electricity grid as much as possible and these costs will be as low as possible. That trade-off is kind of complicated. As a result, Mrs Kluit had another question about the realisation of infrastructure and how the industrial clusters work together. We're really working together. In that Exploration landing wind energy at sea is researched where wind energy can land. All factors are taken into account. Then I will join the Forum for Democracy. I was asked if I am familiar with project Everest of Tata Steel. I'm pretty familiar with it, but if I get a question, I'm stuck in it. So if I have to provide more information about it, I can tell you it's coming. I think this project is about how to produce hydrogen steel, which would be incredibly interesting for Tata Steel. Tata Steel often comes to the news in recent times, because there is of course and an issue to make the environment cleaner.This concerns both the environmental aspects and the local residents and is a task to ensure that the jobs stay here and an issue is how to produce steel in a sustainable way. Plans have also been put forward by FNV and environmental organisations, which say that this can be done without CCS. The unions and Tata Steel are now looking together, together with an independent researcher, at what is realistic to ensure that it is both cost-efficient and reduces and keeps jobs here. What is the follow-up to this and what this Everest project is going to look like is up to the company itself. There's a lot of consultation with a company like Tata. This also applies to other industries that we want to preserve because of the jobs, but which we also want to facilitate in terms of sustainability and their infrastructure. So I can go that far about the Everest project specifically. Tata in general is high on the agenda. That was my folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u152	I'm gonna go check the room and see if anyone has a follow-up question. Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u153	I also asked the Secretary of State the following question. I can imagine that the Secretary of State does not yet know all the ins and outs of the Everest project, but it is mainly about the fact that hydrogen production requires a lot of energy. It is probably 1 gigawatt, which must also be generated with green energy. How does the Secretary of State view that? Since we have now received the specific question on the provincial coordination scheme in North Holland, I can imagine that this specific question also applies to the possible state coordination scheme. Is there some kind of estimate of what's going to happen there? My group is very interested in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u154	If I may, I will return to that last question in the second term. I'm just checking to see if I can actually go into that planning. When it comes to the declaration of a company, actually an industrial cluster such as Tata, that wants to make it more sustainable, there is just a lot of extra needed for wind at sea, for example. That is exactly what both the PIDI programme and the President-in-Office of the Council have always been short, but also in many other places. These are also the ideas that Mrs Minnesma recently shared with the Prime Minister and me. She says: the sustainability of industry could look like this and so much wind is needed at sea. She also put this on Mrs Hamer's table for the sake of a new cabinet. Here's the question. How much extra wind can you get at sea? How much infrastructure for hydrogen can you arrange? Within what timeframe do you want to ensure that industry can be made more sustainable? At the moment, Tata also says that he needs a lot of CCS in that transition phase. There are parties like the environmental organisations and the FNV that say: no, you can skip that if you do it in a different way. That's what they're looking at right now. An extra gigawatt is certainly what is planned. It could just be that I'm gonna be standing here more often, because we're gonna get more wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u155	I still have a follow-up question to the Secretary of State about the acceptability and unacceptableness when it comes to bird mortality. I understand that everything is being done to keep it within acceptable limits. However, my question has not been answered: what happens if an acceptable bird mortality becomes unacceptable, even for one or two species? I really want an answer to the question of what happens if that acceptable limit is exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u156	In the extreme case... We're not assuming that right now, just because you're studying it all the way up front. It's a lot to do out front if you want to make a lot decision. I wouldn't want to make those steps very small here. There's an independent committee watching it. Mr Berkhout says: let's say, let's say, let's say. I've always learned in politics that you shouldn't go into questions like that, but I'm gonna try now. Then you'll also get the category I was just talking about. If by chance an entire flock of birds comes along, you can say: we're investigating now, can you shut it down for a second and how does that work? In the investigation, we could take that into account. I can come back to it in second term. The reason I gave the answer that I gave is that it's being weighed very carefully at the front and you can't start building if you could've reasonably seen this coming. You can see this coming because you know which birds are true. In the second term, I will return to the question of whether you can then temporarily shut it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u157	Is the Secretary of State gonna talk about the hydrogen agenda in this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u158	Not in this block, but in the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u159	That's what I think it's even called. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u160	Hydrogen. The CO-free hydrogen, the green hydrogen............................................................................................................................................ That's what I just said. It will also be an energy buffer and possibly a fuel and heat source. This will partially and gradually replace natural gas. That's what we think and hope and it happens now and then. By converting wind energy at sea into hydrogen, it is possible to use wind energy to make sectors sustainable at sea for which electrification is not possible or too expensive, not cost-effective. Hydrogen will therefore become increasingly important for wind at sea. The current wind energy roadmap at sea focuses on making our current electricity consumption more sustainable and can be integrated into our electricity system. For further wind growth at sea afterwards, the coupling with hydrogen will be essential. That's what you're working towards. The growth of wind at sea and green hydrogen can reinforce each other. That's what it's supposed to do when it's all right. Wind at sea can supply the green electricity needed for green hydrogen. The growth of green hydrogen contributes to the certainty of the business case of projects of wind at sea. Then supply and demand reinforce each other. Transport and storage in the form of hydrogen help integrate wind at sea into our energy system. You can't ideally see these things apart from each other. The first step will be to combine wind at sea with hydrogen production on land, because it is cheaper than wind production at sea. That's the order. In terms of cost efficiency, it is cheaper on land. It is important that the further roll-out of wind at sea fits well with the scaling-up of green hydrogen. I told you, you have different colors. The blue, the low carbon hydrogen, or the grey, we're gonna need at this time. We're in a transition where you end up going green. You also have purple and pink and that is nuclear energy, but I do not think that is the question. So we're looking at how we can combine wind at sea and hydrogen as best we can from the beginning. It also examines how combined bidding of wind at sea and hydrogen can work and how wind at sea and hydrogen can be properly integrated into the energy system as a whole. That has not been incorporated into the law now because it is a very complex story, a very different story than it is now on the table. But also there we see how you can do the tender combined. I hope that I have been able to answer Mr Pijlman's question about what the path of the future of green hydrogen is. In principle, I have two more questions, if you'd like to finish the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u161	That was the deal. Mr. Pijlman, would you mind if we had the block finished by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u162	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u163	I had another question from the Forum for Democracy. It says: is it true that we want to encourage the construction of hydrogen plants at sea? In the context of the Exploratory Landing Wind at Sea, Vawoz, it is currently being examined to what extent hydrogen production at sea is a real option in the future. We'd really like that. There is also a need to examine how to convert natural gas pipelines so that they can be used for hydrogen. I think that is one of the subjects that almost everyone agrees on would be ideal. It is also being worked hard to see how we can do that and who could do that best. It may be an opportunity to bring large amounts of energy to land cost-effectively. As a result, less electricity cables are needed, which, of course, has many other advantages. We just talked about that. However, we must first clarify whether hydrogen production at sea and transport through existing pipelines is really safe and possible before it can be determined whether it should be stimulated. Safety is also an important element. The last question I had was from Mr Dessing. Oh, that was that we are now investigating how hydrogen can be transported through natural gas pipelines. That's exactly what we're doing with HyWay 27. In addition to all kinds of abbreviations, we have also come up with a lot of beautiful English names for projects. That's exactly a project that looks at how to use the existing gas network, which is of course exceptionally extensive and beautiful in the Netherlands, for hydrogen. That investigation will soon be shared with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u164	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u165	I was indeed concerned with green hydrogen and the sustainability of industry. You said it yourself: that saves jobs. You explained the trajectory, but you haven't put it in time yet. What are the first steps? When will we find what, and when will we be informed about it? The second point is that the ports in Rotterdam and the Eemshaven are seriously concerned about the roll-out of all projects in relation to the problem of nitrogen. Perhaps you would like to say something about that now or later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u166	If you don't mind, I'll come back on both points later. That's true: those questions have been asked. To prevent me from going freewheeling and it's not quite right, I'll come back to that, if you don't mind. I'll be at the folder by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u167	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u168	Mr Pijlman asked a question about the cable by Schiermonnikoog. There has indeed been a great deal to be done about this. Mr Pijlman says he doesn't think the cable is a good idea. On the one hand, we have a huge task, and it is probably even bigger for wind at sea, as we have just discussed. On the other hand, we have the hustle and bustle on the North Sea. You're trying to figure out what's the best landing route and what's most efficient. In a letter to the House of Representatives dated 18 May, my predecessor indicated that after consultation with the region it was decided to take more time for the final decision on the route around Schiermonnikoog, and to see what other options and options there are. There are all kinds of trajectories that go about that. I'm going to inform the House of Representatives anyway. The complexity is that you are now looking at what is possible, and at the same time, for example, through the motion of D66, which is quite rightly entitled to know that there is an even greater task coming from Europe to look for 10 gigawatt extra. That's how you get this kind of consideration. Once again, the region is being looked at very carefully and very carefully. So I will come back to that, at least towards the House of Representatives. I'm sure that'll come to you, too. Then I have a question from Mrs Faber. She was talking about peak hours. If you have a lot more wind at sea, you'll also have peak hours. Then the electricity price will fall. How's that? And what about the electricity exchange that includes TenneT? If I may translate the question in this way: who is actually watching it? One of TenneT's tasks is to balance supply and demand on the high voltage grid. Apart from this balancing task, TenneT has no influence on supply and demand. They're not about that. So they're not about the price or about the electricity market. They'll try to keep a balance in that. They are subject to a legal regime. There's a national supervisor on TenneT. That's the ACM. There is also a European regulator, ACER. Those tasks are therefore fully enshrined and regulated in the law. Within all these frameworks and their supervision, that is what they can do in this way. The parties can therefore submit a bid to TenneT. They try to balance that, but they are watched. Then I had a question from Mr. Van Ballekom of the VVD about nuclear energy. As far as I am concerned, it falls under the heading of other matters too often. I can tell you that after a month. So that's what we're gonna do. Mr Van Ballekom says: for a healthy energy mix and to remain as independent as possible as a country, you also need nuclear energy. That's what international investigations say. Do I subscribe to that? Oh, yeah. Nuclear energy is not excluded. This is also mentioned in the Climate Agreement. The reason why there are no concrete measures in place is that, for example, you could not achieve an additional nuclear power plant by 2030. That doesn't mean you won't do anything. A market consultation is currently being carried out. We expect the results just before summer, I think in July. I hope to inform you about this around the summer. That is on the basis of a motion by Mr Dijkhoff. So it's not like we're sitting still at this point. We look very closely at what the market needs and how we can have a healthy energy mix. As a government, it is important that we are and remain technologically neutral. That also means, I think, that you can't afford to rule things out. Of course, nuclear energy is a good option for security of supply. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions. First of all, a question from Mr Otten and then I will end with a question from Mrs Faber. Mr Otten asked about the negotiations with Germany on TenneT. I checked. In view of the German elections, the negotiations have now stopped, also in order to allow both sides to reconsider. It was agreed to resume talks with Germany at the end of the year. So that's why it's been postponed for a while. I see I have already answered Mrs Faber's question. That was about peak hours. So I'm done answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u169	I'll take a look around. Mrs Faber, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u170	The State Secretary states that TenneT has no influence on the electricity market, but TenneT does have a shareholdership in EPEX SPOT. That's where the electricity is traded. TenneT has also offered two Commissioners from its ranks. So they're just gonna have an impact on that market after all? Those two commissioners aren't there for Pietje Puk, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u171	The role of TenneT is that balancing task. As I heard and interpreted Mrs Faber's question, she sees that role much bigger, but that is not the case. It is a balancing task, in which TenneT has both a European supervisor and a national supervisor. It is therefore not the case that TenneT can influence the market in this way. TenneT is looking for a balance. Inside, what the market does is what the market does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u172	Then I'm gonna ask the question differently. Is there a direct or indirect conflict of interest between TenneT and EPEX SPOT? I quote René Kerkmeester of the APX Group under which TenneT was at the time, who said: soon the Germans will open an industry in the Netherlands and what is the impact of the volumes, which are much greater in Germany; can we survive with our current volumes in Europe? So this is actually an indication that TenneT had an interest in getting into EPEX SPOT, otherwise she's not going to. So again my question, Mr President, if I may...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u173	Sure, it'll be my pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u174	Thank you. My question is: is there a direct or indirect interest of TenneT in EPEX SPOT? That's the key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u175	I'm gonna go back to it. I think I understand the question. I hear a conflict of interest in the following sense: can TenneT send in in such a way that she herself gets better? Those supervisors are the national and the European authorities in favour of preventing, among other things, this. But I think it would be very good if I could check again if I understood Mrs Faber's question correctly and if I gave the supervisors the right role in this. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u176	I have three more questions I haven't heard an answer to. It may be that the Secretary of State will return to the first question on the Tata Steel story in the second term, because I also asked about the production of synthetic kerosene. I would like to have an explanation of that. Then I have another question about the production of ammonia and how it relates to the current nitrogen crisis, where farmers are punished for producing too much nitrogen. I would also like to have an answer to that. And then the most important question. It was about the pipelines and the ships needed to transport hydrogen and ammonia. Are they going to be subsidised? The EU prohibits subsidising green hydrogen, but is it not still subsidised by means of the detour of transport? If so, by what means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u177	No, I'm not ready for this right now. As far as I am concerned, they are a little too specific for the scope of this bill. I promised D66 I'd come back later on about the nitrogen. I want to see if I can deal specifically with this in the second term. And if you don't, I'll come with a letter, if you don't mind. I'm going to try to deal with it in the second term, with it going slightly wider than the bill. You might be asking me over with those specific things. I'm gonna take a look at it, or I'll come back to it in writing. I can come back to this house in writing, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u178	I'm sure you can promise to come up with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u179	It's gonna be okay anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u180	We always accept such a commitment in great thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u181	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u182	Maybe it's been discussed before, but I've missed contracts for difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u183	That's true. You're absolutely right about that. I know that this has been a big discussion, in the House of Representatives and also here in the questions. All the way into the base, there are several countries that are still doing it. But there are also countries, like Germany, that have said: we do not do that anymore. That's because it says in the basics to give a guarantee, a kind of subsidy, when the electricity price is too low. The government's gonna pay for it. But that is a form of subsidy that we want to get rid of. We have also examined this and you can see that, if you use this instrument, it does not stimulate the market enough to ensure that supply and demand are properly matched and to innovate, because it is always guaranteed at a certain price, at a bottom price. And we've been talking about this all afternoon. That is why we have said: let us keep the option of subsidy in the instruments. At the moment that you have no choice, you can still grant a subsidy towards a wind farm. But this particular instrument takes out the movement that we are now in and which requires such a bill, or a legislative amendment, something. That is why you see around us that at least Germany, but I think it will be more countries, has said goodbye to that instrument. It is a subsidy that no longer stimulates innovation and the functioning of the market. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u184	Thank you. Then we come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have some points. Thank you for the answer and respect for knowing all these abbreviations within one month alone. I hear some of my colleagues talking about the cost of wind at sea. I do wonder whether my colleagues within their own party are also doing nothing about the cost-benefit analysis. There are good reports, both on our energy supplies and on our industrial and economic development, that show that if we remain lax, as we have been so far, we will miss huge opportunities in the European and global markets. You all know the story of how Kodak and Nokia have perished. If you don't get involved in the developments soon enough, you lose the chance, you fall behind and you can shut down your toko. I found this to be rather sharp in the alternatives. Quite rightly, questions are being asked about the costs of wind energy and whether or not they are too high. But the alternatives that are then put forward, fossil energy or nuclear energy, also have considerable costs. If you look at what Hinkley Point is currently getting for guaranteed price, that is €0.10 per kilowatt hour, while wind at sea is at €0.045. I'd know what kind of power I'd like as an industry. At the same time, when you talk about landing and expanding the network, there is no such nuclear power station. This also requires substantial expansions costing billions. If you're talking about insurability, if we shut down a nuclear power plant, it's at the expense of our ordinary citizens. The province of Zeeland has very big problems with that. Before we move on to new technologies too quickly within my party, I'm really one of the few people who think you need to look really wide. I think we should go for a level playing field. If we take seriously the problems we raise here, then this is true in width and therefore also for fossil. Then I'm going to Schiermonnikoog. I agree with the words of D66. But first, I'm gonna stop for Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u186	Mrs Kluit refers to the alternatives put forward in this Chamber, such as fossil or nuclear energy, which are actually simply more expensive. But I have something here from your club, not mine, which is a U.N. report. The report is called Better Climate Better Growth. The report concludes on offshore wind energy that overall costs are even higher than those for fossil energy. Does that club of yours have a bit of fun? What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u187	You said earlier that the UN is a Green Left club, but the UN is, of course, just international cooperation in which everyone in the world is represented, including yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u188	Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u189	You're... Mr President, Mrs Faber often shopped sec-... se-...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u190	Selective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u191	Selective. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm getting all riled up. Mrs Faber often shop selectively from the information available. You have a report which I do not have in my initial knowledge, but I suspect the same is happening here. I think you're getting numbers out of that that suits you. It is quite difficult to compare prices worldwide, because it depends very much on which things you do and do not count on and what are and are not the conditions for wind at sea off the coast. I know what it looks like here in the Netherlands. Our secretary of state told us a lot about that this afternoon. Then the picture looks the way I just sketched it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u192	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u193	Mrs. Kluit accuses me of selective shopping, but don't we all do that a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u194	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u195	Then let's be honest about that. We've had an integrity session. Let's just be fair about that. But the fact remains, of course, that I have this report here. This is about global numbers. It's a global problem, isn't it? You say you know what it's like in the Netherlands, but we don't quite understand what it's like globally. But we are responsible for 0.35% of CO emissions. And for that, this whole circus is being rigged. You accuse me of not looking over the dikes, but now you do. I'm just saying, the fact is here in the UN report. It says that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u196	I think your point is clear, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u197	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u198	I will give Mrs Kluit the floor on this and then we will go to Mr Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u199	The point is clear, but the question is not. So I suggest we leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u200	I couldn't resist picking up the glove. Mrs Kluit compares fossil fuels with Kodak, as a kind of old, transitory technique. But let's take a look at kerosene. Kerosene is a residual product that is now used in aviation. It is said that fossil is currently more expensive than alternatives. But does Mrs Kluit agree with me that, for example, the production of synthetic kerosene at the moment entails enormous costs, and that because of the stairiness of the first conversion of carbon dioxide you first have to make hydrogen through wind energy, which in turn combines with CO, which in turn mix into synthetic kerosene via that complicated process...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u201	Thank you. Thank you. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u202	Isn't that much more expensive and much more complex? So how can Mrs Kluit describe this as old-fashioned and overpriced?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u203	Well, because there are a lot of uses of fossil industry that just have better alternatives. Now Mr Dessing has just selected a sector in which it is much more difficult. Aviation is one of the few sectors in which it is still extremely difficult to deploy sustainable technologies. They're looking at battery technology. Biokerosin is being studied. They're looking at hydrogen and even solar-powered aircraft. If you ask me, the solution for aviation will be to fly less in the coming years, but your party may be looking at that differently. I think this needs to be matched with climate performance, but I suspect that our parties also see this a little differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u204	Thank you. Then I suggest... Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u205	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I note a weakening of the fact that it is an old remedy in this respect, and that we do indeed have to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u206	I'm gonna get into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u207	But we don't have much time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u208	I understand that, but I'm going to explain it to Mr Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u209	If it's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u210	The risk is there when automotive switches to electric and when we switch from oil and gas to new technologies for other users. It's just for the economic reasons I just mentioned. €0.045 per kilowatt hour is just incredibly low. When that switch happens, you'll see that demand for oil decreases. And that means an increase in the price of air transport and kerosene. You know that like no other. And these are precisely the economic vulnerabilities on which I think we should prepare ourselves as a society. We know how this works and we know how vulnerable our airlines will be if these irreversible processes are set in motion. And then I'd rather help them with hydrogen than wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u211	I just heard Mrs Kluit setting off an antinuclear energy story, but of course we also have a lot of gas in the Netherlands. In other countries, they switch to gas to reduce CO emissions. How do you see that? Why wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u212	I call on you to remain within the context of the current bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u213	Thank you for thinking it was an antinuclear story, because it was just the facts. If you think that's "anti," I think you've come my way. Then you asked if we'd go to gas. Gas will also have a role in the Netherlands for the time being. That is my position on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u214	Thank you. Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u215	Are you therefore prepared to resume the extraction of gas in Groningen under certain conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u216	I don't read that in this bill, Mr. Otten. Perhaps you would like to reply briefly, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u217	As far as I am concerned, we are not going to resume gas production in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u218	Then I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u219	I stayed with Schiermonnikoog. I understand the Secretary of State's answer. We're not there yet. No decision has yet been made. I am also pleased that this is being looked at in greater depth, also because the basis here can become a very large issue. I would particularly like to ask the Secretary of State to continue to think from these two perspectives: support, nature and do not allow these costs to be leading here either. Finally, nature. In reply to Mr Berkhout, whom I know as a great nature lover, I heard the Secretary of State say 'do no harm' as a principle. She said that's also enshrined in our Nature Protection Act. Meanwhile, we have major debates in this Chamber on the Environment Act. There's a little bit of an extension there. It's not just about "do no harm." It is also about linking the exploitation of our raw materials and facilities to protecting and developing. That was actually my plea in the whole debate. Look not only at preventing damage, but also use it as an opportunity to develop. This will benefit the fisheries sector. This will benefit the nature sector. This will benefit the public. I think it's really good for the wind companies, too. My request to the Secretary of State is therefore to look again at those principles behind the Environment Act, how they are applied, in order to apply them also to wind at sea. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u220	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I shall now give the floor to Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u221	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and their staff for their answers here today and earlier in the written rounds of questions. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I would like to stress that my group is happy to endorse the comments made earlier by our colleagues on Schiermonnikoog, because we too consider it unacceptable what is at present in danger of happening there. The nature reserve must be protected, as must the sea-repellent function of the dunes. I would also like to comment on the answer given by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State stated in her reply that it would be wise to hold our motion for a moment, because there is another pilot running to a black rotor blade on a wind turbine. However, this is precisely why we wish to table this motion. The investigation has already taken place in Norway. Pilot's over. The results are there and the results are extremely positive. Again, one rotor blade can cause up to 71% less bird mortality. Then why wait now for a pilot of at least three years? Our group believes that reinventing the wheel here is unnecessary and unwise and believes that it has been sufficiently demonstrated. We shouldn't leave any credible Norwegian research behind. Having said that, I would like to table one of our motions which I announced in my first term. Shall I recite it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u222	If you want to file her, it's best to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u223	Yes, please. The: Mr Berkhout, Mr Nanninga, Mr Beuker and Mr Prast proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[wind turbines at sea cause bird mortality;]] [[the Norwegian Institute for Nature Research has examined that black painting of one rotor blade per wind turbine produces more visible contrast, which would rather deter birds and reduce bird mortality to 71%;]] [[the pilot will last for at least three years in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas:]] [[it is unacceptable that an unnecessary number of birds die for another three years while there is already a thorough investigation;]] [[it is desirable to mitigate "acceptable" bird mortality as soon as possible and to prevent, reduce and halt bird mortality;]] [[Invites the Government on the tenders for offshore wind turbines that, in order to be eligible to win a tender, the participant must colour at least one rotor blade per wind turbine black,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35092-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u225	Thank you, Mr. Berkhout. Mr Pijman has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Secretary of State, for the detailed answer. There's still a few things left. I mentioned nitrogen. You said that the investigation into the landing Schiermonnikoog will undoubtedly come to you. I only interpret that as a promise: it comes to you. Good. And you'll be back on the timeline of hydrogen. Mr. Chairman. In the first instance, a number of colleagues have spoken not only about this bill, but also about the alternative, which is always called nuclear energy. I have pointed out to Mr Van Ballekom that Sizewell and also Hinkley Point are not running. You replied: yes, but those are generation-4 power stations, you shouldn't; proof technology, then it will be fine. The Virgil Summer plant in South Carolina has completely stopped. 11.5 billion gone. At the Vogtlecentrale in Georgia, the counter is now at 20 billion. It's still not running. Closer: the Flamanville plant in France, generation 3, is still not running. It'll probably be 2023. It now stands at 19 billion, five times the purchase price. The Olkiluoto plant in Finland, also generation 3, is not running. It was due to be delivered in 2013. Hopefully that will be 2022. Three times the take-on price. It is about the expertise, which is largely gone in Europe and the United States. In England, Chinese expertise has even been asked to help. The Wylfa plant in Wales, Moorside in England: all stopped, billions lost. I am not fundamentally opposed to nuclear energy. It's about... You mentioned that yourself. Nuclear fusion, thorium, it is absolutely possible to help in the future in the energy transition we stand for. But in the short term that will not work in Europe. Only China has been successful so far. Let us also take into account all these facts when it comes to the costs of wind energy, because that is precisely what is going very well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u227	Is that what you're doing at the end of your input? Yes. Mr. Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to address Mr Van Ballekom a little bit and ask Mr Pijlman whether he is aware of the fact that the knowledge about the small modular reactor is now there and that it could be placed at a very short time for low costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u229	That's not a proven technology. We're all gonna have to see that. So far, all the examples you have all mentioned have got terribly out of hand and the taxpayer is really screwed. Mrs Kluit has already mentioned the prices of the electricity they are going to supply. That's definitely not competitive anymore, so know what you're getting into. And once again, thorium and fusion are certainly still potential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u230	Thank you, Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. The Secretary of State states that grant-free wind farms can be realized and she claims this with dry eyes. I hope she will take this Chamber seriously, because we are actually talking about shifting costs. There is still 4 billion coming from the SDE+ and 5 to 6 billion coming from the network operator's tariffs. Let me get a quote from my colleague, Mr. Kops, from the House of Representatives. He mentioned an investigative firm, AFRY, which did an investigation on behalf of the Minister of EZK. There is a clear warning, namely that the wind farms in the North Sea are already marginal business and that this will only get worse in the future. That is to say, if the price of electricity is to fall again, there must be more subsidies. It is therefore unlikely to be possible in the near future without this subsidy. And what are we talking about? We are talking about billions of euros, but how big is that revenue? The CBS said that in 2019 8,6% of final energy consumption came from renewable energy and that, of those 8,6%, only 1,85% were wind energy. And that's what we're gonna pump 10 billion into anyway. That's a lot for such a small yield. I'm seriously wondering what we're doing. The Secretary of State says: yes, but two-thirds of the costs go to business and one-third to consumers. Mr. Otten already indicated: the business community is going to pass that on. In addition, large-scale users receive discounts from network operators. That's because they're just stabilizing it. They're not talking about that right now, but they are. If the big companies get a discount on stabilising the network, it will always be at the expense of small consumers. So it really doesn't make the households happy. In short, it's actually too expensive. That was obvious. It doesn't make much sense and we're really wondering what we're doing right now. So far, because I've told everyone else in my interruptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u232	That's what I thought, Mrs Faber. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u233	I'll be glad if I don't have to wear this mask next week, Mr. Chairman. With glasses and earplugs, it's all very complicated. In the first instance, thanks to the Secretary of State for her reactions and answers. As far as I'm concerned, the invitation to visit the Voorhout more often stands. A second point. What is happening and what is not coming in or out of the debate today on the bill? I thought the bill was meant to boost CO-poor energy supply. That's how I interpret it, and that's not just wind at sea. I do therefore believe that the comments that are just out of the question fall within the context of today's debate. For the sake of clarity, at least: in our vision, we need to bridge the next 15 to 20 years in order to achieve a truly responsible CO-free energy production. And until then, we can't sit still. We must do it with the technology that is currently available. And wind energy at sea is a necessary part of that energy mix to produce CO-free energy, with all its disadvantages. And to reassure you: a wind farm has a life span of about 20 to 25 years. That fits in well with the period we need to bridge. However, we must not dwell on developing sustainable technologies. In addition, we can think of general fusion, which is something other than fusion, Mr. Arrowman. We can also think of small modular reactors; they have already been mentioned by Mr Dessing. And we can also think of nuclear power with the generation 3 reactors. Because there are also a lot of those connected to the net. The experience gained elsewhere can only benefit the Netherlands. So let's not bet on a fourth generation, but learn from what happened elsewhere, and of course also from what went wrong. That is the advantage of the third generation. And perhaps for the future we should also think about thorium plants. They are of course quite beautiful, but we talk about a period of twenty years. And between now and 20 years, something must be done. That is also the vision of the IPCC, the climate panel. That is sometimes forgotten in all enthusiasm about sun and wind. The IPCC states that it is impossible for countries such as the Netherlands to achieve all objectives without nuclear technology. Okay, we can conclude that, but then we know that the targets are unachievable. And I say to Mrs Kluit: nuclear power generation is not more expensive. I will give her some studies in which that is established. This does not alter the fact that nuclear technology must be facilitated by the government, otherwise the industry simply will not enter it. That is not surprising either, given the history of energy policy. In the Netherlands too, the government has not always acted as an equally reliable partner. So the government must also provide guarantees to enable such matters. Finally, a call. Let us, for God's sake, enter into the discussion without taboos or fixed ideas and opinions, because with taboos and rusted ideas nobody gets anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u234	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Mr. Arrowman, can you do it briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u235	I very much agree with the latter: no dogmas. I have always pointed that out. Because there are new technological opportunities, including in the field of nuclear energy. As far as I'm concerned, we're on that, too. But it's not a proven technology. We really need longer deadlines to see what can and can't do. And my point is that generation 3 presents a lot of problems in Europe. I am not even talking about generation four.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u236	Thank you. It's nice to know that you're giving support to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u237	Yeah, I've actually already responded to this, so I'm not gonna repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u238	Yes. Thank you. I suggest that we continue with the next speaker. That's Mr Dessing. He speaks on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. If Mr Van Ballekom can get out of the way, then the chair can be cleaned and we can go through with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the answers given by the Secretary of State. I owe you three more. Whether or not I am going to table a motion depends on the answer to one of those questions. So I'm in a bit of a dubio. I think I'm gonna file the motion in advance anyway. Then the Secretary of State can always dissuade her and I can still withdraw her or something. I don't know the procedures here, but I think that's how I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u240	There are two options: either you submit the motion or you do not submit it. That's, like, the decision tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u241	I'll file the motion; I can always rescind her. That's how we're gonna do it. It's possible, isn't it? Agreed, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u242	If the Chamber agrees, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u243	Thank you for the answers. My group is not entirely reassured by the answers, because the concerns we have about the enormous growth that we are going to facilitate for wind energy at sea have not been removed, quite the contrary. The complexity of all the intermediate steps in the energy supply that this whole process is going to bring, because we have committed ourselves to this CO reduction, remains beyond question. I have just given an example of how synthetic kerosene is produced through all kinds of intermediate steps. We're making it very difficult for ourselves. As a group, we are absolutely not in favour of this. The question about the subsidy for the transport of hydrogen and ammonia still requires me to table the next motion. The: Mr Dessing, Mr Frentrop and Mr Hiddema proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU does not allow the grant of green hydrogen;]] [[noting that this legislative proposal aims to produce green hydrogen at sea;]] [[having regard to the Court of Auditors' finding that wind energy production at sea is subsidised through TenneT;]] [[calls on the Government to avoid indirect subsidies to the green hydrogen sector by subsidising the landing of green hydrogen produced at sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35092-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u244	Mr. Chairman. At the end of this legislative process on wind at sea, we had a short fundamental discussion today about the ideal energy mix for the Netherlands. We should have started with that a few years ago, instead of outsourceing everything to an orgy of shared interests at the climate tables. As far as our group is concerned, the ideal energy mix for the Netherlands is nuclear energy and gas, and we should have kept the most environmentally friendly, brand new, Dutch coal plants in operation for a while longer. Anyway, that's not the route that was chosen. Politics has been overwhelmed by the approach of former VVD Minister Wiebes. "A textbook example of a meddling politician who messes up everything he touches," said the former Secretary-General of the Secretary of State's Ministry this weekend in Het Financieele Dagblad about Mr Wiebes. My point about the lack of capacity for the energy agreement was underlined by the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau published last night. This shows that large parts of the Dutch population, including those who are deeply concerned about the climate, have enormous concerns about the financial consequences of this ill-thought-out and very fast energy transition, whose bill ends up with consumers, whether or not they are charged via companies. From the answer of the Secretary of State, we understand that the construction of the wind network at sea will cost about 15 billion euros, to be paid by the Dutch consumer through the energy bill and through the taxation of businesses. Bearing in mind Mr Van Ballekom's motto that there should be no dogmas in this area, supported by other parties, we call on the Cabinet to review the current energy mix, to focus more on nuclear energy and gas, and to keep our state-of-the-art coal plants in operation for a little longer, and thus to keep energy affordable in the coming decades. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u245	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? No, you'd like to suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u246	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few new questions I'll come back to. I'm going through it as soon as I can, because I think you'll have more to do. Mrs Kluit once again called for a good look at the basis for nature and not just to look at the costs, for example where the crossing of the Wadden Sea is concerned. Questions have also been asked about Schiermonnikoog. It's about balance, and I'm taking it with me. She also says: make sure you apply the principles of the Environment Act when it comes to wind at sea. The policy on wind at sea has already been adapted in line with the Environment Act, so I also consider that to be an additional encouragement for what we are already doing. I had to come back to Mrs Faber's question as to whether TenneT's 780 million could also be used for other things such as platforms and nature. No, it can't be. It's real for Just At Sea. However, what Mrs Faber is asking for is already happening. I think it is good to emphasise this not from the 780 million, but through the Maritime Information Service Dot programme. I'm sure there's a pretty good abbreviation for that, too. In addition, Rijkswaterstaat places sensors for shipping, nature and KNMI on the TenneT platforms. That happens, but certainly not from the 780 million. Through participation in EPEX, TenneT can influence the price on the market, how exactly did that happen? Mrs Faber also asked. TenneT has a 17% share, so they cannot influence the price at all. TenneT should not legally trade in electricity except for the balancing task that it has. That is an explicit exception to purchasing electricity in order to be able to monitor that balance. That's just one part, and TenneT can't do anything else. What if bird mortality becomes unacceptable? If the ecological calculation in advance shows that bird mortality could become unacceptable, there are two possibilities. You can anticipate by taking mitigating measures. You anticipate compensatory measures at the same time as things go wrong. Then you can bet extra on breeding success. I learned a new word today thanks to Mr Berkhout. The moment there's bird migration that you didn't foresee, you have mitigating measures and you could stop the case. But maybe you can also realize a black woke, on which there is a motion, which I come up with in a moment. So there are different ways of dealing with that. Then Mr Dessing talked about nitrogen. If I have understood correctly, the question was addressed to the ports of Rotterdam. Sorry, I'm just looking around. Above this is Forum, but I think there was also another question about it. It went so well all afternoon, and now I'm totally screwing up. In my view, however, the question was whether the problem of nitrogen would also delay when it comes to the offshore wind farms. No, that doesn't cause any problems in that sense. Indeed, very limited nitrogen is released in construction, and an effort obligation will be imposed in the Lot Decision to further reduce nitrogen. It is, of course, a point of interest. Wind farms at sea may benefit from the building exemption which will enter into force on 1 July. The rollout can take place further. Sorry for the wrong direction I was looking. Then I have a question from Mr Dessing: the province of North Holland already has the provincial coordination arrangements, does this also apply to the state coordination and can I give an estimate of the planning? The province is coordinating the Everest project for the capture installation of CO and there is a spatial exploration for transport and storage of CO. This is covered by 4 national coordination, and the aim is to have that CO capture transport and storage operational in 2027. Then I have Mr Dessing of Forum, who says: how does making ammonia production possible in the future relate to the nitrogen crisis of today? Right now, there's no relationship there. Mr. Pijlman... I'm going a little mixed up, excuse me... asked a question about the timeline for hydrogen. The most obvious thing is to refer to my predecessor's letter of 11 December 2020, which sets out the entire government policy agenda on hydrogen and the order of implementation. It's a lot to put that down here, because a lot is happening. It also describes international cooperation and the link between hydrogen and wind at sea. I would ask Mr Pijlman to take a look at that. If there are any questions about that, I am sure they will also come to me. In addition, of course also the aforementioned HyWay 27 where we see how we can make the gas pipes suitable for hydrogen. That comes around the summer, but I hope sooner. I think I'm already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u248	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u249	I have a brief question for the Secretary of State. Still about EPEX SPOT and TenneT. Is there a conflict of interest? I am referring to TenneT's shareholdership in EPEX SPOT and the delivery of two Commissioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u250	I did, indeed, find out exactly what was going on in this way. The establishment and supervision shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest. If Mrs Faber likes it, I can write it down in writing. Oh, is that okay? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u251	And we're getting that landing report?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u252	Yes, of course. The House of Representatives gets that and I don't know exactly how it lands here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u253	We don't get it automatically?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u254	That's right. I'll make sure it lands here, too. That's what I meant by no doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u255	We note a commitment that you will ensure that it also comes to the Supreme Court in a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u256	Yes. That point about Schiermonnikoog is looked at specifically and as soon as we know more about it, it also comes to the Upper House. Clear. Then I have the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u257	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u258	I have Mr Berkhout's motion on acceptable and unacceptable bird mortality, which says: blacken at least one rotor blade per wind turbine and do not wait those three years. I have already said that I think it would be wise to wait for that pilot so that we can be sure that this is the right route. I think we both don't want those birds to die. Let's find out if this is the right way. I would like to advise against this for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u259	Okay, that research has already been done, but in Norway. In itself, I don't see what's against putting on one such black rotor blade. I wouldn't know what that Dutch research will add to that Norwegian research. I think all the mitigation here is helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u260	So you're maintaining your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u261	Yes. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u262	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Mr Berkhout I have not only learned a new word, breeding success, but I have also understood that in Norway other birds, such as the sea eagle, are smaller turbines there and that this entails other conditions. And that's why the advice is: look what it looks like in the Netherlands and what would be best there. There has really been a good look at what has been studied in Norway and the birds and turbines appear to be completely different. Then I have one more motion. Among other things, it belongs to Mr Dessing, who calls on the government to prevent green hydrogen from being subsidised. That's how I read the motion. That's what I think it says. Eventually, green hydrogen is also subsidised, because these are just those energy carriers and energy sources that we want to subsidise at this stage. It is also necessary to subsidise them, because otherwise you always stay on blue or grey hydrogen. You want to stimulate that innovation, but then you finally get there. I hope to be as quick as wind at sea at a point where that is no longer necessary. For the time being, we will continue to encourage this type of innovation in order to ensure that we can go through the energy transition in a cost-effective way. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u263	Then I would like to ask the Secretary of State for an explanation. Has she looked at my consideration that the EU does not allow subsidies for making green hydrogen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u264	Mr President, I do not think we can fully follow the motion. However, green hydrogen is subsidised. What could be an option? I don't know if it works like that. It's that Mr Dessing is holding on to the motion and we're seeing together what exactly we're being asked to do and what's being done. I don't know if I'm asking anything very complicated about that. I just talked to the backup about the answer. I think we may misunderstand each other, and I want us to understand each other. Maybe Mr Dessing can hold the motion. Then I'm sure we'll find another time to return it. Next week's the vote. Of course, we can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u265	He's already filed the motion. He can hold it and then at some point decide to put the motion back to the vote. In fact, Mr Dessing will be able to inform you of this next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u266	Yeah, but then how are we gonna do that alignment on the motion so we can understand each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u267	I think we can just call each other. Or am I saying something really out of the box?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u268	It is a characteristic of the debate that it is taking place in public. It is customary for you to send a letter containing the relevant information. That letter is public, so that everyone in the country can follow what information is on the table at the parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u269	All right. I want to make it absolutely public. I want to understand each other well and to be able to give a good answer. I will ensure that the answer is shared completely transparently and publicly, on time, so that Mr Dessing can determine what he is doing with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u270	We note a commitment that we can look forward to a letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u271	...with how I interpret and read the motion. Then Mr Dessing will be able to make his assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u272	The motion is now filed, Mr. Dessing. Next week, before we vote, you can decide whether you wish to hold or withdraw the motion. That must be done next week, otherwise the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u273	Yes. Then I have another question, Mr President. One question had not yet been answered, namely to what extent the Everest project of Tata Steel is a harbinger of the production of synthetic kerosene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u274	Yeah, I wanted to come back to that in a letter anyway. Can I combine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u275	If you wish, you can do so, as long as it's in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u276	Yeah, then I'll take both points in a letter to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u277	That's another commitment. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-8.u278	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
