ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the election of the second Vice-President of the Chamber. As a candidate for the post of second Vice-President, the following Members have applied: Mr Atsma and Mr Recourt. Would one of the Members like to ask one or both candidates questions? I suggest that we all ask any questions first and then give Members the opportunity to answer the questions in the same order. Mrs Vos on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the candidates for running. I'm happy to know the candidate Recourt. So I don't have any questions for him. I have three brief questions for Mr Atsma. I thank him for his letter. Following the letter, my group has three questions. In the beginning he writes that he thinks it is a challenge to be able to cope. I wonder what the challenge is. The next question is: what does Mr Atsma think could be done better in the functioning of this house and what he would like to contribute to as the second Vice-President? The third question is: what is his experience with large construction projects and renovations? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Does one of the other members wish to ask one or both candidates another question? That is not the case. I note that questions have only been put to Mr Atsma. I'd like to give Mr. Atsma a chance to answer Mrs. Vos's three questions from the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u4	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank the questioner, Mrs Vos. We have known each other for some time, also from a different capacity, namely from the other side of the Binnenhof. In the Lower House we met at the time. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the question of what I see as an important challenge. First of all, it is an honour for me personally, I have also written, and a challenge to be your second Vice-President. It is, of course, a challenge to be able to serve the Chamber on behalf of all the parties, in the broadest sense. I think that is already an important challenge for a Vice-President, perhaps for all of us. In addition, there are, of course, a number of practical challenges that will arise in the coming period. I also indicated this in my letter. For example, the challenge related to the renovation. It may be a failure for some, but it is of course a fact that a great deal of energy will have to be put into it in the coming period, both in the temporary accommodation of our Chamber.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That would, for me at least, be a wonderful challenge. Mrs Vos' last question was: what experience do you have with larger construction projects? I have been involved in a number of larger initiatives, including in the preparation of the construction of the new Thialf in Heerenveen. I don't know if that's appealing enough as a big project. I've been involved in the merger of the Lotto and the State lottery. That was a big surgery, really big surgery. I have one role as supervisor in addition to parliamentary membership. I am Commissioner at Groningen Seaports. If you could come and see them, you're all invited. You'll see one large building site there. From another responsibility, I am also directly involved in this. So: from the past two examples and from the present one example. What would I like to change? I think there are always things in the way of the Chamber, of our Chamber, that you could improve. That's what you do together. I also read the reports of the College of Seniors. I am also present at committee meetings here and in the plenary. Of course, there are always things that can be different and perhaps better. You may appeal to me as your independent Vice-President, should I become it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. Are there any other Members who would like to speak at this time? That is not the case. Then I would like to thank the honourable Member for his reply, and we shall proceed to the election. I'll briefly explain the rules. In accordance with Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, the election shall be held in writing by secret ballot. In order to be elected second Vice-President, the candidate shall require the absolute majority of the votes validly cast. I would point out that not duly or insufficiently filled ballot papers pursuant to Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure are invalid. So Blanco votes are invalid. A valid vote is a ballot note on which clearly no more and no less than the name of one of the members. Invalid votes do, however, affect the absolute majority required to make the choice made by this Chamber. If none of the candidates achieves an absolute majority in the first round, which is not entirely impossible even with only two candidates, I can see you all now thinking, "How can that be?', However, pursuant to Rule 116 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, a second ballot may be held, which may also be held freely. This means that you can vote on the same candidates as in the first ballot. If, once again, no one has obtained the absolute majority, a third vote shall be taken pursuant to paragraph 2 of Rule 116. If the third round of votes is not conclusive, then fate will determine who will be the second Vice-President, according to Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna take a look around and make sure that's clear to everyone. That's the case. I can see Mr. Frentrop having second thoughts, but... he's laughing like he's... yeah. I now appoint Members as voters: Ms Bredenoord as President, who will announce the outcome of the vote after each ballot; Ms Baay-Timmerman; Mr Meijer; Mr Janssen. I would also point out that it was agreed at the Seniors' College that, after each ballot, if there are several ballots, a short suspension will take place for possible consideration. I ask the guardian of the Chamber to distribute the ballot papers and to fill in the ballot paper and fold it twice. For the first round we use the yellow notes. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that it is forbidden for anyone to photograph or film this in connection with the voting secret during the votes. This applies to everyone in the room, as well as to everyone in the gallery, as far as someone is concerned. I would ask the guardian of the Chamber to collect the ballot papers and deposit them with the ballot board after you have filled them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u6	I would ask the voters to take their seats at the tables in the middle of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u7	I give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. 32 members voted for Mr Recourt and 35 members voted for Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. On the basis of the outcome of this vote, I note that Mr Atsma has obtained an absolute majority in accordance with Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure and has thus been elected second Vice-President of the First Chamber of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u10	I thank Mr Recourt, who has lost weight, for his efforts. I would also like to thank the members of the electoral committee very warmly for their work. On behalf of all of you, I would like to congratulate the new second Vice-President on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u11	I give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u12	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for your confidence. I think it is particularly important to thank Mr Recourt for the sporting spirit with which we entered this election. We've been in touch before. As I said before, I hope to be a second Vice-President on behalf of all of you, who will not disappoint you. Thank you again for all the trust. Let's make it beautiful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Atsma.
