ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35552, Implementing Regulation ID cards. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has already been said by Mr Van Hattem: the amendment of the Passport Act is a subject on which Parliament and government have been very much concerned in recent years and where some problems have arisen. It is therefore perfectly understandable and very good that there is a great deal of attention to this from the Parliament and the Upper House. This is one of the last debates, or perhaps the last one, of you here in the Knight's Room. From another responsibility, I am proud to look back at how we have worked together in the past period to ensure that the Upper House can also meet through. It is so good that even the House of Representatives will come here tomorrow to test this building and this beautiful hall. Until the very last moment we continue to use the buildings on the Binnenhof. The regulation now before us will enter into force directly on 2 August. Even if we did not do anything today, that would be a bit defeatist. What is in that regulation would come into force anyway. But I think it is very good that the debate is taking place here and that the points you have raised can be sufficiently expressed, despite the fact that, of course, we have already had a number of written consultations in which we have also exchanged those thoughts. Mr. Chairman. I'm going back in time. The European Commission published a proposal for this Regulation in 2018 with two objectives. First of all, to improve safety. If we look back to 2011 I say that in the direction of Mr Van Hattem, that is something that has happened a lot in ten years. Security has become even more important. The integrity of these documents has become even more important. We have seen what can happen if they are not in order and what consequences this has for the countries belonging to the European Union. That's not even the point of guarding the borders. I fully agree with you: if you only have identity cards that are integrity and can show if someone is who he or she says he or she is, that is not enough to guard the external border. It's gonna take more than that. At the same time, documents offer the possibility of facilitating and encouraging free movement within internal borders, which is, of course, the beauty of the European Union. That is also an important element. It is therefore about guaranteeing external security, including in terms of documents themselves, and free movement of goods, persons and services on the inside. It was, of course, true that documents in circulation or in circulation within the European Union differ not only in nature but also do not really meet the quality requirements. The passport you showed your grandfather is an example of that, but that was of a very different quality than some rags that pass by. So if you want to bring this to a higher level throughout the European Union, you will have to ensure uniformity and at least minimum standards in terms of security and combating counterfeiting, but also guaranteeing privacy aspects. I say this in the direction of Mr Dittrich. We can do much more than ten years ago. The technique is much further, but that does not alter the fact that the normative discussion on what can and cannot be conducted permanently. In daily practice, we see that the military police are still running against counterfeit identity cards. Some people think it's part of the job. It certainly is, but at the same time every forgery is one. Often you see the tip of the iceberg. So we shouldn't be naive. Organized criminal gangs, human traffickers, use this kind of methodology. The portee of the story is: away with the weak documents and ensure a minimum standard. It is therefore necessary to amend the Passport Act and the mutual regulation. I am very pleased that we can have this debate today after an earlier debate in the House of Representatives. In the course of the examination, in written consultation, a number of parties have asked for attention to be paid to a number of issues, such as gender registration or unnecessary gender registration, fingerprints, their use, and the expiry of that alternative appearance. I will go into that in a moment. First of all, sex registration. The proposal we are debating today is intended to implement a European regulation. It was already a government policy that we do not introduce additional national policies when implementing EU rules, so do not put national headlines on them. As I indicated when answering questions from the SGP Group from the Permanent Committee on Education, Culture and Science of the First Chamber, it is up to the Member States to choose whether or not to include the sex on the identity card. Thus the omission of gender is not part of this bill. I expect the legislative proposal to be submitted to the Chamber by the end of 2022. I should like to say a few words about Mr Dittrich's questions on this subject. In fact, you could say that no national headline is added, but that something is removed from it. We literally take away the idea of getting the mention man/woman by law. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come up with the fingerprints and specifically on the use of them. For passports, we've been doing that for years. There's the standing practice. As with passports, fingerprints will be stored encrypted on the chip of the identity card. They can then be read through a certificate. This goes through digital keys exchanged between countries, giving one access to see if someone is who he or she says he or she is. Fingerprints will not be centrally stored. Certificates shall be managed and exchanged through national contact points with the different governments. Each Member State shall have such a contact point. The image that fingerprints are not used in passports is an image that I cannot take away, because it is. We had that facility, but it was never used. What we are doing now, including this regulation on identity cards, is that we can add that new dimension to security. We are not at the forefront here in Europe; there are a number of countries that have done so before, including in the mutual exchange. They can read each other's fingerprints already. I would like to mention France and Germany as examples. It's a question of identity based on a photo. So that is not so much on the basis of m/v that it is on it, because we also had that debate in the House of Representatives: when you look at man, woman or transgender, it is sometimes very difficult to determine on the basis of a photo what someone's gender is. But that is not the purpose either; the aim is to establish identity. So that identity is stuck in the form of the fingerprints and the facial image. Normally it will be the case that border officials first rely on a similar picture. In case of doubt, they will check the card to see if the correct fingerprints are stored on it. So there's some kind of kicked system. But that means that by giving access to those keys and checking them, the border authorities will have to be given a new authorisation. I've arranged that recently. It is expected that this can also be applied in practice in the Netherlands before the end of the year. With the Czech Republic, we have already started this exchange of keys and we are currently working on the exchange with eight other Member States: Finland, Luxembourg, Malta, Lithuania, Belgium, France, Croatia and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u4	I have a question about those keys. Do they only apply to the fingerprints, or also to all kinds of other data processed in the card and in that chip?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u5	I shall return to that question in a moment, if Mr Dittrich agrees. He asked a very specific question about this. Then the point of the alternative appearance. That's something that's being deleted right now. That means there must always be a physical moment needed. No more exceptions are made. Only the place where you do that, or you go to an office where you can show up and where you can appear, or someone coming to you, is now arranged differently. That mobile fingerprinting device is a nice word, but you have to think of something, isn't it? That makes sure that it can also be used for people abroad, who are not able to come, for example. Also remember that applying for a travel document is not something you do on a daily basis. That is, of course, a very important moment, but you can plan it in a way, because you know when you are going to get a new document. And you can probably combine that with a visit to the Netherlands, to Schiphol. If that is not possible, then we still have the posts abroad where those mobile fingerprint devices are available. However, the better you want to build up your service, the more valuable it will be of course. There's always some kind of balance in what's realistic to have. Especially given that it is not a daily reduction for the individual citizen and you can also plan it, this should in itself be regulated properly. Well, then, as far as privacy is concerned. That is a point that has been mentioned by some of you. I think it would be a good idea to go into what is contained in the Passport Act and in this regulation. In this respect, you see a synchronisation, a convergence of both legislative processes, with everything that is regulated in the field of privacy not only applies to the classic passports but also to the identity cards. Those fingerprints apply, I have already said, in combination with the facial image and the possibility of actually checking them. Another use of fingerprints is simply not allowed. They shall only be kept until the time of issue of the document to the applicant. Once that card has been issued, those fingerprints will only be stored on that document and only through encryption. That will never last longer than 90 days because an identity card that is not collected within this time is permanently withdrawn from traffic and destroyed. I'll say something about that in a minute. This also ensures that these data are not endlessly wandering around or stored in all kinds of places. Mr Van Hattem asked on that last point, in other words on the storage of fingerprints, whether the bill also responds to the concerns that were already expressed earlier, in previous debates, against the central storage of fingerprints. He went through most of my predecessors who were responsible for this. You know we've never been in favour of that. It's technically quite risky to do that. For people who want to commit fraud, that makes it a very attractive target. This would enable people under political pressure to provide these data. That is provided for by the way we have now arranged it. They are only on the chip of the document and are only read through a certificate for authorised organisations. They are therefore temporarily stored at the time of the application; that is clear. Once the identity card has been issued, they will be deleted. How does that work? In any case, within the deadlines we have set for this, the data will be automatically erased. Monitoring is carried out and municipalities will also check on the basis of self-evaluations whether they have complied with this, but when someone does not do something, those data automatically disappear. So that's a guarantee; then the system just deletes them. Therefore, data cannot remain in the system by accident. As far as self-evaluations are concerned, municipalities fill in an annual list. They also send them to the RVIG, the National Identity Office. At the moment when things do not go well, there is an intervention and I am also able to address municipalities at the end of the day. Mr Dittrich asked about the technical aspects of the safety of fingerprints and whether it would also be evaluated: we are now going to work with all good intentions, but how is that going in practice? At present, these security aspects are regulated at European level. The European Commission has also indicated in the Regulation to evaluate this. She'll do that in 2027. Apart from that, there is, of course, a regular review at European level, inspired by experience in the countries: if there are things that need immediate adjustment, there will be no waiting until 2027. It will then be noted and then it will be considered how things could possibly be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u6	I still have a question about that. We received a petition this afternoon at the beginning of the afternoon. It is said by the association Vrijbit that contracts have been concluded with an American organization Morpho, which is governed by American law. There are all kinds of confidentiality clauses, but the question is whether, if there are technical defects or if we are dissatisfied with the technical aspects, we can decide freely that things should be different. Or are we, through Morpho, bound by American law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u7	As far as my information is concerned, we are not bound by it and therefore we have the opportunity to adapt it, otherwise we would be surrendering to the great American firms at the moment; that is not the policy of the European Union either. You know the discussion that was still going on with one of these parties today. There is a very strong awareness within the European Union and among those responsible for this, that we must strive to shape all these things on a European scale, in Europe, in order to be able to decide on everything. That's what we're working on right now with the coalition of the willing. As long as you don't, you're gonna have to guarantee that if you want to change something about that, you're not a black box, but you can do it yourself, and we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u8	Can you assure us that biometric data will never fall into the hands of the Americans and can be used there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u9	That is an absolute question, because that assumes that there is a 100% guarantee for everything that is going on around data, which we deal with very prudently. I'm responsible for the digital government myself. We deal with hacks and burglaries every day, so I can't give you that guarantee. But the answer to your earlier question as to whether it goes through that system is yes. Only, you might be able to get in by other means, hopefully not. That can never be ruled out. But the system is designed in such a way that any weaknesses are tested continuously. Just as we do our own penetration tests with the government to see where the weaknesses are, you do that here, of course. In the coming period within the European Union, should evaluations or other experiences reveal possible weaknesses, it will of course be acting and shared. This can lead to changes in safety systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u10	Finally, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u11	Finally. As far as security is concerned, I do not know if this was your answer to the security of the system that is being set up around those keys. But my last question is this. We simply want to have the guarantee that the system is safe and that, should it be hacked or something like that, adequate action can be taken so that citizens' data does not fall into the wrong hands. Are you sure you can promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u12	Of course, this is largely guaranteed by the design of the system, i.e. by the decentralised storage on that card instead of a central storage. That's how you arranged it. These keys are exchanged between countries. Those are all different keys. Each Member State has its own key and gives one key to another, but not all countries have the same system. So these are all national-made systems that comply with the same agreements. Because the fingerprints are only on the identity card and are not in a central database, it is therefore very difficult to tackle this centrally. It can't be. There's nothing central. Everything is decentralised and everything goes through encryption. That was also the reason why, a few years ago, I was allowed to do that debate myself, that there was so much criticism of that central storage, because if it works, it works, but if you are inside, then you have access to an incredible amount of data. That's what we want to avoid, because whoever has the data has the power. That is exactly the discussion we are having with the big tech. But those dates are on that card and those keys are in the hands of the various Member States which authorise authorised staff, i.e. only those authorised to carry out the checks, to check the data. Again, that won't happen at first, because at first you'll just rely on the facial image.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u13	Follow up on your speech, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u14	These keys only give access through the fingerprints, I say in the direction of Mr Dittrich. They were all made at the same level of security, as I said, but they may differ from one another, just as your house key is different from mine, and yet we can both open a door with it. In doing so, I also answered Mr Schalk's question on how safe these cards are. Mr Dittrich wondered why the proposal on the storage of biometric data could not be submitted before 2022. You rightly referred to the letter from Mr Van Engelshoven, who was also sent on my behalf, about the cabinet's intention to prevent unnecessary sex registration. That's what the coalition agreement says, so that's what we're gonna do. The cabinet is outgoing, but I assume that this is a movement, heard the House of Representatives, which can count on a large majority. This proposal is now under official preparation and will then be sent to the Council of State for consultation and advice. There are more issues in this proposal than mere mention of sex, so it is not just about that. Then you could say that it is reasonably clear, but it is also about the provision for the storage of biometric data, and that just takes more time. The planning looks like this now. First, the consultation of the Dutch Data Protection Authority will take place. Inter-departmental coordination will then have to take place. Then comes the public consultation and consultation with the countries. That's planned for the fall. When all reactions are received, even after consultation with the BES islands, it goes to the National Council of Ministers, because it is a state law. And then there's another opinion from the Council of State. If I can see it so that you ask me if I can see if I can do it faster, I can certainly promise, but I'm more of an underpromise, over deliverer than the other way around. That's why I assumed this. In principle, nothing stands in the way, but it is not only the unnecessary gender registration; there is more in it. Mr Van Hattem wondered whether the legal procedure under the ECHR would cause problems. It is true that there are indeed some trials going on. These are based on the state of play before this new regulation. That wasn't the case at the time. The old regulation concerned only the passports, but this new one also applies to identity cards. In that sense, I assume that the coming of this regulation will clarify this legal battle, about how it is all regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u15	Maybe a bit of a procedural issue after all. It is an EU regulation that we are now being presented with. Suppose the European Court says that the objectors are right and that this also has an impact on the new regulation, do we have a problem primarily as a Dutch legislator or are we going to solve it at European level? Is the European Commission going to say to the Member States: solve it, or have agreements been made on how to resolve it at EU level, because it is also the one who imposes this on us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u16	Then you ask me something to which I cannot give a clear answer in two minutes. If there is such a ruling, then it is entirely the question on which it is based, what is the basis for it and what is the scope of that ruling. It will apply not only to one individual country, but perhaps to several countries. Since it is a European identity card, because it is a European regulation, it will also have an impact on the way it has been created, so it is necessary to fix cases if necessary. That's kind of like-dan reasoning. It depends entirely on that statement. I assume that this regulation is properly regulated. Apart from the evolution of the technique and how you deal with identity cards and passports, decentralised storage is also a very important principle, where privacy and security are very strong elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u17	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u18	If I have correctly understood the objections of the petition and of Privacy First, it is not only about central storage, but also about privacy in general, and also, on the basis of Article 9 of the ECHR, fundamental objections to the storage of this data. To what extent is or has this been taken into account in the drafting of this bill? And how is this being dealt with, so that we don't get to deal with unpleasant surprises later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u19	I understand that question. But here too: you don't have a guarantee. The law and political insights are also alive. Look at the context in which we are now debating, for example, the mention of gender characteristics. We could not have had this debate ten years ago. That is what I said in the House of Representatives. The technique is a very different one, but the threat is also a very different one. The need to determine whether someone is who he says he is has only increased. The possibilities of protecting privacy have also increased. I cannot foresee how this is developing, but this remains a very important element to combat fraud, especially in the European Union, in which you want to guarantee the free movement of persons within the external borders. I am not going to speculate on any ruling by judges on this, but I think that this regulation has legally been a very thick line under a debate that has been going on for a long time, and we were talking about central storage a few years ago. The wish we're not gonna do that is already in there. To be honest, I don't see that happening anymore either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u20	How far have you come with the answer, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u21	I have some questions, Mr President, but I will do my best; I understand the incentive. Mr Van Hattem also referred to statements of the 2016 Council of State on previous regulations. They were about fingerprints on passports. I.D. cards weren't included. This was confirmed by the Council of State in 2016. I understand the principles, but we have to be careful to compare one thing with another and then draw conclusions from them. Mr Van Hattem had a question about Privacy First and Vrijbit about legal sustainability. He has just said something about this in an interruption. It is important to note that there is now an explicit legal basis for recording the fingerprint. It's in the regulation. That is why, legally speaking, apart from your political judgement, there is no longer any doubt about the legal sustainability of fingerprints in the way it is now regulated. Privacy First and Vrijbit also had concerns about the reliability and error rate. That's interesting. Of course, we don't have any fingerprints here yet, so it was about the error rate in previous technical cards, so passports. There was an error rate of 30%, something like that. We will have to experience the quality of the keys. Of course, we've been tested. I assume the percentage will be much lower. But if there are mistakes because the officials authorized to do so find that something is wrong in a system or that there is no clarity about the final identification of the identity, then you could say that the card is not optimal. Perhaps by taking other fingerprints, or taking them better, and by making other facial images, you can reduce the margin of error. I assume that with the introduction of the legal basis, and the technique associated with it, that error rate can be drastically reduced. But we will have to experience that from the evaluation, from people from practice. That always leads to improvements. As from 2 August, that will apply, I say for the sake of clarity. Of course, there will also be an instruction on how to take these fingerprints. You can still remember the photos for the passports at the time, and that you had to go back to the photographer because it wasn't quite right, not because your head didn't like the official, but because the proportions or position wasn't right. This will undoubtedly have some initial problems, but it will be monitored more closely from the outset. In the context of gender registration, Mr Schalk asked how the omission of the gender indication with the aim of optimising identity verification relates to better quality. There are a number of characteristics on the basis of which you can determine if someone is who he says he is. Gender is traditionally a well-known distinction, but that distinction is no longer easy to make, apart from the fact that there is another political debate on it. The fingerprint is completely unique; the facial image is also unique, especially because of the biometric characteristics. From the point of view of the border guard or the official responsible for determining whether the identity is correct, it is no longer a distinguishing criterion, one might say. The photo determines everything: it determines whether the person in the picture is the same as the person in front of you. Against the background of preventing unnecessary sex registration you can come to the conclusion that it is from the search perspective... That is something else than the comparison you made. I do not think it goes completely, because the police can throw anything into the fight to describe people, because in that case they don't have a picture; they have to do it with the characteristics. Then I can imagine that your husband/wife is a principle you have to look at. But some people don't know that easily, especially from a distance, whether they're men or women. So I think that's a different comparison to the one with the identity card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u22	One question about that. In Mr Schalk's interrupting debate, Mr Schalk spoke about vulnerable groups who really think it is important that man/woman should be on the identity card. What is the state secretary's position on that argument? What vulnerable groups are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u23	You should actually put that question to Mr Schalk. Maybe he can answer that question first; then I want to reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u24	I'll try to answer. I had a question to the Secretary of State in response to his last remark, but Mr Dittrich's question has given me a bit of a loss of my own question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u25	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u26	I hope it comes back. In any case, when I am talking about the vulnerable groups, I am talking about those who are, yes, now I remember; on that the Secretary of State made that last remark, to whom it is not so easy to see whether they are male or female. I can imagine that we are also learning to think the other way around: for some of these people it is very important that they can prove that they are man or woman. They can do that, among other things, using the identity card. I have a lot of compassion for people who struggle with gender dysphoria, for example. They are looking for their identity and often want to prove it in a good way. We should, of course, have this debate at the end of 2022, but that is what I meant. It can also be about people.I'm going to sit in a different frame for a while.... who are very consciously choosing to undergo a transformation. There it is sometimes not very visible at first. They might also like that they can show: look what's on my map. I try to use the term "vulnerable groups" to touch various groups that have been helped with an indication "m" or "v."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u27	I now understand Mr Schalk's point. Let me begin by saying that I find Mr Schalk's contribution and Mr Dittrich's, who do not always agree politically on this point, to be quite similar. They're both trying to move into people who might be affected by the way we're organizing it right now. I can go along with that. Actually, this card is really boring, if that's how you look at it. In the direction of Mr Van Hattem, I would also say that the European flag is hardly visible. I don't know if you recognize him. Some people in this room don't see him anymore, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u28	The people who follow the debate at home cannot see this. Actually, the rules are that you don't show things unless the people at home can see it really well. Otherwise people will not be able to follow the debate, and constitutionally that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u29	Then I'm gonna go visually tell you what I see on this I.D. He looks a bit like the driver's license we all know, with a photo, with still the name, with still the sex features, the date of birth and the date of issue. Very small, at the bottom right, almost unreadable, there is a European flag. You really need to look very closely. It says "NL." That is the characteristic that is added to it. It's much smaller than the driver's license, for example. I don't know if that's conscious, but at least he's smaller. In the direction of Mr Schalk, I think we should get rid of this card from the emotional debate. It's no more and no less than that, I mean nothing more bathinating than a means of showing you who you are. Just because there are a lot of sensitivities in how people look and how they feel and about identity, you can bring it back to two essential things. One is the facial shot, which, of course, doesn't just say something about whether you have hair or no hair anymore. That can also change over time. It's just how your face is built. The other ones are the fingerprints. If there's any doubt that someone's in a transformation... those fingerprints don't change. That also means that this identity card, this identity card, I would almost say, can be removed from all emotional charges, because you actually bring it back to the essence of discrimination. How can you tell that someone can be distinguished from someone else? Or: how can you tell that someone is the one he said he was when he applied for the document? You can do that with today's technique. Of course, 20 years ago, that was impossible. Then we had such a messed-up passport photo and we had Mr Van Hattem's passport. We were very pleased with that at the time, but that is no longer enough. I therefore believe that this leaves room for the political debate whether or not you think it should be included. From a control perspective, the sex is an unnecessary recording.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u30	You are now heading towards the end of your reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u31	Well, Mr Schalk had a number of questions and Mr Dittrich, by the way. I'm gonna answer it after...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u32	I'm just trying to plan the time. It may also be that we continue otherwise after dinner break, but I have to suspend for dinner break at some point. Mr Van der Burg on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u33	The Secretary of State is now using the same argument as Mr Dittrich used. Then it was about the male/female discussion: irrelevant for identifying identity. On the identity card you only have to include the information that is necessary for establishing the identity. That is what both the Secretary of State and Mr Dittrich said. Both the Secretary of State and Mr Dittrich are in favour of the European flag being placed on the map.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u34	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u35	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, when it comes to establishing at least my identity, this really does not make any contribution to investigators?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u36	No, I didn't. Mr Schalk asked for another flag to be added. That does not, indeed, add anything to the purpose of the plea. Nor will I hide the fact that we did not need it, but this was also a compromise at European level. So he's gotten so small, I don't even notice he's on it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u37	Thank you. I suggest you continue your argument, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u38	I will, Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk asked why the element of "sex optional" was included in the transposition table. If a regulation leaves things open for the Member States to decide for themselves, it is customary to explain in the transposition table how these choices are to be handled. In this case, gender is still mentioned under the current rules and so we have announced that we are going to change that. We just talked about that. Then there was the answer that I owed to Mr Dittrich about the deletion of the data. The biometric data entered in the application station when requesting the document shall be automatically deleted after 10 days; with the MVA, the mobile device, after 20 days. For the Archive Station, that's within 90 days. If someone doesn't pick up the document in 90 days, it will be destroyed. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. I'm gonna keep going on the MVA, the mobile device. I have agreed with the Foreign Office that, on the basis of tailor-made and working methods, they will see where this need is and, now that this new system exists, how many people use it. Of course, that's not exactly ex ante to say. It is also examined whether people who apply for an identity card have sufficient evidence of possession of Dutch citizenship. That could be enough. This allows you to avoid unnecessary travel. We want to make it as easy as possible for citizens, especially abroad. The option Schiphol is still possible for people who visit the Netherlands for example for family visits and can do so at the airport Schiphol Airport. A special post has been set up for this purpose. Mr Dittrich asked about ethnic profiling: inspectors pointed out that this was out of the question. It is not part of the policy nor of the way in which control is to be exercised. We have just had the debate on what to check for. It's very simple. You're comparing the one in front of you to the picture on the map. If in doubt, check the fingerprint and you can identify it. I understand that this is also a very interesting political debate, but it is absolutely not the intention to do so. That's not what it's for. This is just to check if someone has the identity that's on the map and if it's the same person. Then there is Mr Schalk's flag, the other flag. I do not know whether he still supports his proposal, since he has seen how small it is, but he asks: can the Dutch flag be included? Adding national flags is optional. I say immediately: this card is not that big, so everything you add does not make it any clearer. At least now it can't be done, because we're going to have the entry into force on 2 August. It could only be done with a possible subsequent model that would then be released. That's not planned until two years from now. If that debate were to come again... Technically, it's all possible, and it's possible. But it is not provided for in the proposal that is now before us. In this European flag is NL, from the Netherlands, which makes it clear that it is a map issued by the Netherlands. I have answered all the questions. If not, I apologise for that and I suppose I'm still being questioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u39	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. D66 has raised the necessary objections in the provision of data to US authorities, which could perhaps come to our biometric data. In itself legitimate concerns, because of course we should not want such data to come into the hands of the Biden administration. I wouldn't like that either. The Council of State's objections concerned the identity card. In the report on this subject, it was not only about the method of storage, but also, in my opinion, about privacy aspects as such. I would ask the Secretary of State if he can clarify whether these new laws and regulations are really being complied with. Then there are the cases before the European Court. They would have been dealt with in the new regulation by now. Can the Secretary of State state state whether there is any insight into the course of these proceedings? When will there possibly be statements about this? Can this be dealt with at the next amendment of the law? Then we'll know what's going on. On biometric error rates, the Secretary of State says: it will have to show how it works. But there has really been sufficient technical preliminary research or that is fully addressed. Of course, an error rate of 30 years ago was a lot. It may be that I have not been paying attention in the debate for a long day, including on the corona measures, but I have also asked a question about any substitute equivalent documents. Suppose a chip no longer works and a document is taken by the municipality. Can a person then obtain a replacement passport or identity card that is equivalent in nature and complies with this Regulation? Finally, the EU flag. He may be small, but he's also unnecessary. The Dutch flag would be a much better signal. We are now talking about identity cards, but we are also talking about other residence documents. Can the Secretary of State state indicate whether the EU flag will be equally small on passports or not at all? Mr. Chairman. In any case, our group does not need EU intervention in this area. We shall therefore vote against the legislative proposal. So much for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few smaller points still. In my first contribution, I paid attention to that gender registration. I have noted that the Secretary of State said in the documents that he will send a bill to the House of Representatives by the end of 2022. Here he said he'd do his best to push that forward. We welcome that. We think that's important. Already in 2017 the agreement was: no unnecessary gender registration in official documents. Then we'll be five, six years before it finally gets here. It can go faster. We appreciate that's gonna happen. I started my input with a reference to the book My innumerable identities. These have been reduced to a number of characteristics in the identity card. I agree with the way in which the Secretary of State has answered the problem raised by Mr Schalk. However, it is about controlling the identity of a person. And there's the fingerprints, the facial recognition, and a civilian service number for that. All kinds of other emotional aspects are there indeed, I do not deny that at all, but they have no role to play in an identity card. So agree with the Secretary of State's answer on this. What I am less satisfied with is the answer when it comes to ethnic profiling. The Secretary of State is, of course, right that this is not the objective of public policy at all. In fact, the government quite rightly rejects ethnic profiling. However, practice shows that working with documents, ethnic profiling does play a role in practice. I would therefore like to call for clear information to those who are going to work with the new identity card that ethnic profiling is out of the question. I think the Secretary of State can be generous about that. Then there is a point about the evaluation. I was surprised that the documents did not point out from the government that a number of court cases are being conducted by Dutch organisations in Strasbourg on the privacy aspects and biometric data. There was no mention of it at all in the Lower House. I think it should have been. We should have been able to include this in our assessment. I listened very carefully to the answer given by the Secretary of State. Suppose, from the European Court of Human Rights, that the Netherlands and other countries act wrongly in relation to the fundamental rights of citizens, will repair legislation come soon? I would like to hear an answer from the Secretary of State. Finally. I have not been able to see that very small flag of the European Union on the map, yet I am all the way up front. I'd like to say small, but fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too, of course, thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. He has indicated that this whole change of identity card actually started in 2018 around the most important element, namely security. We've been talking to each other about sex registration. I found it interesting that the Secretary of State indicated very well that ten years ago we had had such a discussion in a completely different way. So it is something that we have been looking at in this way lately. The Secretary of State has also indicated that he intends to bring forward a legislative amendment, so that the card will be adapted accordingly. That'll be a trajectory. For Mr Dittrich, it can't be fast enough. As far as I'm concerned, take it easy and find out what you want. Don't make mistakes and take everyone with you and so on. But seriously, think of the people who might not have been helped. In my view, it still raises a lot of questions about vulnerable groups, security, the international situation, security and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u45	I have one question for Mr Schalk. For example, he mentioned transgender people in his contribution. It is precisely from the transgender movement that it is called upon to remove, as soon as possible, all unnecessary person registrations relating to sex from all kinds of documents, including this identity card. So you stand up for a group that says: we want to get rid of it. Would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u46	Sure. It is also nice that Mr Dittrich indicates where this call comes from, among other things. I agree with him. There's a group that doesn't want to, but there are other people in that group. I talked to someone who works in a hospital where that happens. Those people are struggling tremendously with how they are being treated, even after and during that whole transformation. I'm not gonna stand for that. You'll understand. But I'm gonna stand up for their right to make it clear who they are. In my view, we should have this discussion especially at the time when there is another legislative proposal in 2022, or much later. Mr. Chairman. In order not to end too gloomy, I thought it would be a good idea to conclude a happy motion this year. That motion is about the Dutch flag. It's gonna be a Schalkse, cheerful motion, maybe. The: Mr Schalk and Mr Van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Regulation amends the Passport Act with consequences for the identity card;]] [[noting that the letters of the Member State must be printed on this identity card, but that the European flag must also be displayed;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the representation of the Dutch flag in the event of a subsequent change in the identity card,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35552-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I deliberately chose not to ask if there might be an SGP penny, sorry, an orange penny at the flag. So it's the Dutch tricolor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I would now like to ask whether one of the Members wishes to speak in the second term. That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? One minute suspension? That's until 6:35.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u49	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u50	Thank you to Members for their input and for the reflections on this important subject, which I had the impression was going to have a lot of discussion, namely in the next legislative proposal. In any case, I am pleased that there is such broad support for this legislation, because it is simply necessary. Where there are still questions or a lack of experience, in terms of error rates, and there are things that could be better, there is, of course, immediate change. That's what I'm saying to the Chamber. As far as the legal procedures currently under way are concerned, it is true that if they were to result in cases having an impact on European legislation, they should, of course, first be discussed at European level. This may have ultimate consequences for the legislation we are about to adopt, but in that order. The question is, what exactly is the situation? Mr Van Hattem asked for that. I don't know right now. I can say that, of course, there will be an act when there will be judgments, in any area, by any court, which will have an impact on this legislation. Mr Van Hattem also referred to the Council of State. He said something about this in 2016. That was because the Council of State based itself on the regulation on passports. At that time the Dutch government wanted to store the fingerprints centrally. The Council of State was extremely critical of this. In the end, that's out of the question. So that's different now. That is also the reason why the Council of State did not call the bell on this point in the same terms as it did at the time. Mr Dittrich said about the flag: small but fine. That appeals to me very much, at least the latter; I leave the flag in the middle for a moment, because once again, it is so small that it does not stand out. I do not know if that was the intention, but perhaps it should also be included in an evaluation. Let us be clear about ethnic profiling: this cannot and must not be the case. I would therefore like to say to you that those who are going to work with it are still being stressed, in the form of information, that this is not their purpose. That is not the purpose either, because it has only one purpose and that is to determine whether the identity is correct. That is quite different from how the investigation services could apply it; Mr Schalk made that comparison. That could play a role there. When you made that interruption, I was still thinking that, frankly, I wouldn't know what you could profile ethnically about this either, because all you have to do is determine if someone is who he says he is. I agree that this is included in the instruction for the staff who will work with it. Mr Van Hattem asked: what about if that chip doesn't work anymore? Do you get a replacement document from the city? Yes, that's the case. If there are errors in that chip, it may be that the person concerned thinks that it is not working, that there is an error, for example, with the security authority, or that there is something wrong in the system. But there may also be a production error. Anyway, that citizen won't notice. He's getting a new document. It has been agreed upon by the Municipality of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A new document is therefore being prepared. You also know that all kinds of emergency documents are possible, should we really have to do so acutely. I could feel him coming. But that's just the standard procedure; that's independent of this bill. Then there is the motion by Mr Schalk and Mr Van Dijk with letter C. Again, I thought it was a nice debate in which I saw a lot of connection in the Chamber and also concern: let us make sure that this document does not have anything exclusive or stigmatizing. No one should be touched by this boring document, you might say. At least that is not the objective. You mentioned that "Schalk motion" with a nice pun. That is actually a very nuanced motion, in which it is said: next time let's see if we can take that with us. I'm sure that's something we can all look at. You will have to come to my office in a moment to see if you still want to do so, but I can leave the ruling on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u51	Thanks for the "judge chamber." I shall return to one thing I forgot to say during the debate. This is now confirmed by the statement by the Secretary of State that the whole discussion we have just been discussing is not at all on the agenda. This means that my group can take a positive view of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u52	Secretary of State, that puts you at the end of your second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u53	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill after dinner break. I also propose that we vote on the motion tabled. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the cooperation, with you, with your ministry, with the National Real Estate Company and with all the excellent staff present here. Thank you on behalf of the Chamber for the hospitality and the opportunity offered to make use of this beautiful room in this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-22.u54	I'm suspending the meeting until 7:45 p.m. before dinner break.
