ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u1	The next item is the debate on the announced extension of curfew. I would like to welcome the Members of Parliament. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week in the debate, I said that we would support an extension of curfew if it is necessary to combat the corona pandemic. An extension of the curfew is needed, so we will support that. I understand that people find it annoying. I also wish I didn't have to, but if I didn't fly it in principle and practically look at this week's weather, I would say: go hiking in the sun during the day and enjoy the snow, maybe go skating if you can, walk to the bookstore, collect a book that you have clicked at least four hours before and go to the sofa in the evening, if the curfew applies, sit nice and warm and safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u3	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. Mr Wilders is next in line. I call Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u4	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the cabinet extended the curfew until 3 March, while there is no, zero, factual evidence that the curfew has worked. There is at most some theoretical modelling that the curfew together with the visitor scheme has had some effect, but there is nothing factual. The OMT literally says that the curfew and the custom visitor scheme were introduced too recently to make a statement about the effect from the calculation of the reproduction number. They just don't know it yet. There's actually zero evidence that the curfew is working. The curfew cannot even be assessed separately from the stricter visitor regime. It is really disproportionate to decide now, without factual proof of effectiveness, to extend a far-reaching and severe restriction of freedom as the curfew, no less on the basis of the Act extraordinary powers of civil authority. The Minister of Justice, Mr Grapperhaus............................................................................................................................................................................................ He said at the press conference: "At least there is no evidence that the curfew would not work." Yeah, I remember a couple of them. It is too embarrassing for words how laconically this Minister of Justice and this cabinet deal with our freedoms. All in all, I ask the Cabinet not to extend the curfew and to reverse the decision to extend the curfew until 3 March. Finally, Mr President. In order to prevent and shorten measures such as curfew and lockdowns, it is important that we finally begin to vaccinate the group of 60- to 64-year-olds voluntarily. Fortunately, that happens now, but with a vaccine that doesn't work very well. When's the rest coming? I'm talking about people over 65, chronically ill, people who are now the most frequently on the ic's with underlying complaints and overlying kilos. When do they get their turn and that's done? Finally, Mr President, my question to the Prime Minister: have you contacted Moscow and Tel Aviv to order the Russian Sputnik V vaccine and the Israeli medicines EXO-CD24 and Allocetra or produce here in the Netherlands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u6	Mr. Chairman. In last week's debate on behalf of the CDA Group, I indicated that, in view of the risks posed by the British variant of the virus, we could support the importance of opening up primary schools and the importance for the economy and the middle class that is being made possible by click-and-collecting an extension of curfew. On the basis of the OMT opinion, the cabinet decided to do so. My group can still support this. We hope that the figures for the virus will fall in the coming weeks in such a way that there will be room for enlargement from the beginning of March. If you look at the figures, you can see that the visitor scheme of one person at home seems to encounter even more resistance than the curfew. For my group, however, it is also very important for secondary schools to be reopened. This is important for the development of young people and for their well-being. This is important for preventing further delays. We hope that space will be created for that and we think that extending the curfew can help that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u7	Thank you. Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u8	This really is a huge restriction of freedom. Whatever you think of the curfew, it's a huge restriction of freedom. I think we agree with each other, even though we think differently about extending. Now there are theoretical, modelly views of the OMT that say: maybe it has an effect, and then together with that limitation of the visitor scheme. Then they come at 10%. Then they can't tell what comes from limiting the number of visitor moments and visitors and what comes from the curfew. But there's no actual evidence. The OMT doesn't know yet. Your own Minister of Justice, who is now looking at the ceiling, said yesterday at the press conference: yes, but there is no proof that it does not work either. Surely you must agree with me that such a collusion by your own Minister of Justice, who says 'there is no proof that it does not work', can never be a reason to restrict our freedom for a few more weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u9	In this corona crisis, we all have enormous limitations, sometimes for a year. They are limitations that we could not imagine. When was the last time we gave people a hand? And take the physical distance you need to keep. There are many measures that have huge effects where we do not know exactly what their effect is. But in a pandemic like this, sometimes you can't afford those risks. That is why I indicated last week in the debate that we do not want to run the risk of finding in two or three weeks' time that we would have been better able to extend the curfew. We do not want to run the risk that the primary schools may have to close down again or the click-and-collect will have to be reversed. That is why I indicated last week that we can support a possible extension. That's how we're still in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u10	That is, of course, the right of every group, including the CDA group. But unlike last week, there is now a piece of the OMT. You didn't know that last week when you were standing here. And the OMT just says they don't know it yet. They come up with a theoretical, modelary reasoning, but they say: we just don't know it yet. Your own Minister of Justice says: yes, we have to do it, because we do not know that it does not work. And this is about fundamental freedom. You can't keep people at home for three weeks after 9:00 in the evening, as a government, when you just don't know if what you've done so far has worked? That's disproportionate, isn't it? That goes too far, even for you, someone who has freedom high up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u11	When the curfew was introduced, it was indicated at the time that international research showed that the effect as far as is known is because there is a lot in this pandemic which we are not sure could be 8-13%. On the basis of the figures, it now seems to be contributing 10% to the reduction of the virus, in combination with that visitor scheme, which is even more resistant. What appears to be the long-term effect and what additional knowledge will be available in the next few weeks will become clear around 23 February, no doubt in a debate. For now, the numbers seem to be in line with the numbers we had before the curfew was set. So I think it can make a contribution. The further clarification is even more so in this crisis, but the ending of curfew now has the real risk that we will have to say later that we should not have done it, with possible effects on primary schools and the inability to open secondary schools. I indicated last week that I don't want to take that risk. And it still is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u12	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u13	Yeah, finally. What the OMT is now saying in his documents, and also in the cabinet, is that it cannot be separated from the limitation of visitor arrangements anyway. It may be that it is mainly because of that even less popular........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is evident, among other things, from the investigations that the cabinet has already drawn the wrong conclusions. We debated this last time. That was the case in other countries too. Let's say it's all about that in a moment and not about something we don't know at all, namely that curfew. Why don't we just lock people up at home for nothing? Then we'll be restricting freedom when we don't even know if that's necessary. If you're right about that in a few weeks' time and the Cabinet can prove it, then I'm the first to admit it. If so, but it is not and it does not seem that this is going to happen, apart from the visitor scheme. So finally, one last question to the colleague at the CDA: if you don't know if it works, if it doesn't look like you have any actual evidence that it works, why are we locking people up at home for another three weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u14	Well, based on the OMT advice and the letter we got. It is not a fact, but is the assumption that there was less support for the visitor scheme and that it is also less well respected, while the support for the curfew is greater and so are many more people who respect it. I can't look into the future, but that suggests that the proportion of curfew in there might be bigger. We're gonna see that in a couple of weeks. We supported the setting of curfew at the time because of the effects that it has on the basis of international investigations. The first results are that it seems to have that effect, but above all we do not want to take the risk that we will have to close elementary schools again and turn back click-and-collect. That is why I indicated last week that the extension of curfew could be supported by my group, and I am doing so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u15	You did say that a few times. Then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u16	Yeah, but it doesn't add up. Because then the government's reasoning was that there would be an expected fall from 8% to 13%. Yesterday, the OMT indicated: well, we don't know that yet and we're going to put that in a model. I did not really fall off my chair until Mr Heerma used the argument: if we lift that curfew now, those figures will skyrocket and I do not want to take that risk. Then I wonder where the CDA was two weeks ago, when we had a wide-ranging debate here on the introduction of curfew. Then the argument came along countless times: we don't really know what it's going to do and whether it's not disproportionate. Where was the CDA back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u17	I also indicated in the previous debate that I do not want to run the risk that the arrival of the British virus would result in an enormous increase in the levels of infection. I hardly dare to say it, because the President says I have said it a few times. Last week I brought that into the debate very explicitly, and I still think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u18	Yet I find it very much tending and very much smelling at using an argument while the fact is already fulfilled. We had a debate here about the introduction of curfew two weeks ago. It is fear talking into a group of people at the moment, while we are going to extend a far-reaching measure, and then indicate 'the figures are going to rise', while we are actually seeing that in Britain and Ireland the figures are actually falling. So that British variant is being used too often as some sort of ghost image that these numbers are going to rise tremendously. That's just not the case, so just stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u19	In England and Ireland, the numbers fall considerably after a very heavy lockdown has been set there. It is true that the exact extra infectiousness of the British variant is not yet entirely certain. Two weeks ago, the estimate was slightly lower than last week and now it is slightly lower than last week. The estimate was at first about 1.35, so 35% more contagious. Last week the estimate was 50% more contagious and I read yesterday in the OMT opinion that they now assume 40% more contagious. This is based on the knowledge of today's quite an extra contagious situation. It can still be adjusted up or down. That's a truth. Are we willing to take the risk of sitting on some kind of edge and hoping that it will be okay? I also indicated in the debate last week that, although it is always a reproach to the cabinet that it is too little and too late, when the point is made, the Chamber prefers to relax and does not want to take action, rather than to talk about really stricter and really more difficult. So we must also have the courage to look over the fence instead of just looking at it. And then my group says: rather extend the curfew now, as I indicated last week, than take the risk that we will be sorry in a few weeks' time and that the figures will increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u20	You have repeated this a few times. And Mr. Kuzu, it's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u21	No, I'm not. When Mr Heerma starts talking about the long-term measures, I would like to remind him that he has often supported the long-term perspective in various debates. We see that people are getting tired of it and that young people are having a very hard time mentally. And then it's: we don't have any convincing evidence, but we're gonna lock people up in their own house for three weeks longer. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u22	I believe that this perspective is indeed very important and so is the position of young people. In my opinion, the cabinet indicated in the letter that there would be more commitment to this. But especially for that perspective of young people, especially for a meaningful day's spending, opening up these secondary schools is extremely important. Several parties in this house have already indicated that. Perhaps by extending the curfew in three weeks, we can actually decide in two weeks, when we talk about this on February 23rd, that there is room for that. That's very important, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was to be expected that it would be too early to determine the effect of curfew on the reduction of the virus, but the fear of the variants is still real and the OMT states that there is a cautious impression that the number of contacts is decreasing. My group therefore supports the proposed extension of curfew. Although I do not understand correctly that the cabinet already writes that "the permanent economic and social damage of the curfew is relatively limited'. What does the Prime Minister base this assessment on? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. When we had the debate on curfew two weeks ago, we stressed that corona measures come on horseback and leave on foot. Now I hear the cabinet promise that, if necessary, the curfew will cease immediately. On 23 February there is therefore a weighing moment. My group believes that this is sensible, given the depth of the measure. However, the question is: when is this reason to scale down? What criteria is the cabinet going to test that? I'd like an explanation from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions on the legal anchoring of curfew and its extension. This autumn, the Temporary Law measures covid-19 came into force; a special law to combat this crisis. The cabinet did not amend that law for curfew, but used Article 8 of the Wbbbg; a law to maintain public order, not to protect public health. Why was the law chosen, I ask the Minister of Justice. Why hasn't the Corona Act just been amended? Mr. Chairman. The curfew eventually came about on a rather complicated route: first a royal decree, then a ministerial arrangement and then an extension law which had to go to the Chamber without delay. We finally had to wait ten days for that. I was thinking at some point: an emergency law might have been quicker. I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice whether he will find ten more days without delay in terms of submission. What took you so long, anyway? Finally, Mr President. Now that the government wants to extend the curfew, the question arises as to how it will find its way. The cabinet letter states that the temporary arrangement national curfew covid-19 is modified. The question is whether a law is needed to ratify that extension. That is not clear to me from the letter, nor from the opinion of the Council of State. I would like an explanation from the Minister of Justice on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u26	Mr. Chairman. After a year of corona crisis, it sometimes seems as if the worst period of the pandemic is ahead of us. We have had very strict measures since October. Although vaccinations should be the light at the end of the tunnel, there seems to be no end to that tunnel for many people. Uncertainty, hopelessness and the lack of perspective make many of us down and vulnerable, especially young people. That's what we see in the numbers. The Child's Phone is red-hot, child abuse is increasing and emergency workers are ringing the bell. During this difficult phase, in which we are in, we must also arm ourselves against the third wave, because it is coming. The prospects with the English, South African and Brazilian variants are worrying. My group therefore understands that the OMT recommends extending the curfew and that the cabinet takes this advice. I do not think anyone would see this measure in this Chamber, but unfortunately that is true of a great deal in this crisis. My question is whether the government has an insight into the impact of this measure on people. What signals are coming from the ggz, from the relief service? How much pressure does this measure have on vulnerable groups? In the previous debate, GroenLinks asked for additional support for the ggz in the form of extra crisis beds. What's going on with that? The curfew and the closure of schools are firm measures, a restriction of fundamental rights, which you must deal with carefully. Then you have to be sure that everything else has been tried as well. What about taking care of extra homework? In a casual way, the OMT writes that there are many introductions of the South African variant via Dubai, which our vaccines may not work very well against. Why are there still two flights a day to Dubai? Finally, Mr President. This time demands solidarity with the vulnerable as a society. I am referring, of course, to the risk groups, but now, after a year of corona, also to the children who cannot go to school. When is there an opinion on how to open secondary education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u27	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The curfew is, of course, a measure no one in this Chamber is waiting for, and I suspect that is equally true for many other measures. It has just been mentioned as the measure restricting home contact to one. That hits a lot of people very hard: young people and elderly people, all those millions of Dutch people who are used to visiting someone in the evenings, family or friends. It is hard for a lot of people that such an invasion of their lives is being made in this way. But the alternative isn't much better, and I think we know that as well. The alternative is to high risk that we get a high third wave of corona infections, a wave of disease and many deaths, in the elderly but also in the 40s and 50s. That's what we're trying to prevent. We want to prevent a new wave of infections and that hospitals are once again affected by such an overload that we need to scale down regular care again and even further. There's something else going on for the SP. We have said before that it is very important for young people to be able to open up schools again. It's settled for primary schools now, as long as they're not snowed in. I would like to ask the cabinet what can still be done for the other group of young people to give them more perspective, even while secondary schools are still closed. Mr. Chairman. The better we as adults provide less contamination, the more freedom we can give our children and the sooner the country will be able to open up again. But then we need to know where we stand and that is starting to become problematic, especially when we look at the past few days. Today's figures and yesterday's figures are not clear at all, for very good reasons, and so we do not know where we stand. I would like to ask the Cabinet what is the time when we can properly assess whether the curfew should be abolished or whether it should still be maintained. Based on what criteria are we going to do that? Is that the number of infections, even if we don't know exactly how many there are? Or is there another way of looking at it? And how can we prevent us from remaining with this measure for months to come, even if no one can actually do so? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u29	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u30	Mr. Chairman. Everyone wants an Elfstedentocht, but it's not going to happen. No one wants a curfew, and yet there's a curfew. Everyone wants to open the schools, but still most high school students are still at home. This shows how miserable the measures are, but also how erratic covid is, how long this virus has been with us and how long it is likely to stay with us. That means that for the time being you will be stuck in this kind of measure, especially if changes still create an uncertain factor and if we want to give priority to other priorities, such as opening up primary schools. But the despondency is increasing rather than decreasing. Everyone's lockdown moo. Any measure that is extended for longer increases that feeling, especially if there is still a lack of perspective. The vaccination strategy is long overdue, vaccines are thrown away and there are reports that reinforce that feeling of despondency. Only Facebook conversations with young people will not change that much. I believe that there is a particular need for clarity in the strategy and for clear support. I believe that this justifies the question on the basis of which it is now determined whether or not relaxation is justified. 10% is, of course, a good reason to say that we are maintaining this measure. At the same time, very little is known, so I think it would be good if both Minister Grapperhaus and the Prime Minister were to address this very strongly. All in all, however, we will support the extension. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u32	Thank you, Madam President. This year the government is forced to intervene deeply in our lives, with quite drastic measures. No one's happy about that. As a Christian Union, we must honestly state that if we look at how the coronavirus spreads, measures are justified. But we will always have to argue that we ask the cabinet to state that support properly. Today, the cabinet sent a letter indicating that the first estimates around the curfew indicate an effect, but that more time is actually needed to get better evidence. That's why the cabinet is requesting the extension. It can support the Christian Union in principle. However, we do have the question for the cabinet why the choice is now made to extend the curfew until 2 March if a new weighing moment is built in on 23 February. Would it not have been reasonable to allow the measure to last until 23 February in principle? I'd like a response from the cabinet. What exactly does it take for the cabinet to assess whether the curfew is needed any longer? Under what criteria will the cabinet assess that? How does the Cabinet intend to weigh that? I'd like that reaction and the support of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Why hasn't the legal basis been chosen to regulate it through the Corona Act? The Cabinet has chosen to our crisis legislation, the Act extraordinary special... The Act extraordinary powers civil authority I must say; it is a complicated name. The cabinet has chosen to use that law, with a ministerial arrangement. But that law also regulates that the cabinet is obliged to send a bill to the Lower House without delay in order to really settle it properly. The cabinet didn't do that; there were ten days in between. I ask the cabinet if this has been such an obvious choice. Can the cabinet go into that? I would like to draw attention to two groups of people. These are, first and foremost, the people with ggz problems. They are particularly affected. It is very good that Secretary of State Blokhuis comes up with an exception for this group, which gives these people an exemption from curfew, but I would also like to know what signals the cabinet has received in recent weeks. Will it be checked with interest groups if that works? How exactly are mental consequences for people taken into account? The last question I would like to ask is the following. As a Christian Union, we have previously received a motion on an exception for practical education. This motion has not been carried out by the Cabinet, but now that the extension of curfew has been announced, it is very obvious that this motion should be carried out in order to also provide for an exemption for practical education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u33	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When entering the curfew, the Party for the Animals pointed out the importance of a broad social consideration. There is no question of "if not, then it does not harm," but of "if not, then it does harm." In particular, I am talking about the group of vulnerable people, who are incredibly hard hit by the corona measures. They were already struggling before the corona crisis and these measures only make it worse. The longer these corona measures last, the more the damage increases. Lonely people get into depression or even think of suicide. A lack of social contact increases the fear and uncertainty among young people. Vulnerable children face more domestic violence. The cabinet recognises the social crisis in which we find ourselves, but at the same time does not show that this insight is really relevant to the decision on the extension of the curfew. Everything, everything is focused on limiting the damage afterwards. The OMT advised that the curfew be extended. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau was allowed yesterday to explain the consequences for society, according to the cabinet letter and the Catshuispieces. This was a conversation in which the outcome, extending the curfew, was already established in advance. Mr. Chairman. Tough measures to get the virus underneath may be necessary, but we need to make that assessment on the basis of scenarios and on the basis of the expected mental and physical health damage in the short term and in the long term. This is particularly true for vulnerable groups. This must also be done on the basis of whether all other possibilities have already been exhausted. I would mention firm measures towards employers, aviation, slaughterhouses and the food industry. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals does not support the extension of curfew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u36	Madam President. The curfew is a measure which is very general in character and which affects social life and the freedom of movement of citizens. It is very difficult to prove that this particular measure has a significant effect, the OMT states. The SGP found, and considers, that the curfew is not a proportionate measure in the current circumstances. So we stand by the view that we reject the extension. I say here that we set the bar higher than other measures taken by the cabinet, because it is an exceptional legal framework that is being called upon. That is why we are in fact being extra strict about this measure. We've discussed the Corona Act in detail here. This measure does not fall within the scope of that law and therefore does not fall within the scope of all the safeguards provided for by that law. In fact, I find it very uncomfortable to talk about an extension here in Parliament, when the next debate on curfew should have been about the law. Because this particular emergency law clearly states that a legislative proposal must be sent to Parliament without delay, so that the Second and the First Chambers will be able to give their opinion on the introduction. Now we are actually talking about an extension, without having ratified the introduction of Parliament. That is very uncomfortable and we are therefore, from a legal point of view, particularly critical of this course of action. My core question is therefore why it took so long for the ratification law to go to the Chamber. Why, as in the emergency law on the test obligation, has everything not been pulled out of the closet to get it done as quickly as possible? Finally, Mr President. I read that the cabinet will continue to assess the curfew very closely in the coming weeks and this measure will cease immediately if this is the case earlier. Can the Minister indicate on the basis of what information does the Cabinet decide whether or not to end the curfew by March 3rd? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u37	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Almost every day I get reports that people in the country are really sick of this cabinet's corona policy. It is therefore incomprehensible and scandalous that these gentlemen should continue to plunge people into misery by extending the curfew until 2 March. Nota bene government's own RIVM cannot prove the curfew. The decrease in contagion rates had already started and cannot be attributed to curfew. It is bizarre that this government is torturing its own people with a measure that no one can prove convincingly. Why does this government make Dutch curfew? The same question also applies to the political parties who previously all voted in favour of a motion not to introduce curfew. We already knew about the CDA and the VVD, but D66 has sold the soul for half an hour and agreed to lock up young people after 9 p.m., together with PvdA, GroenLinks and SP. This curfew coalition is pouring Dutch people into misery. Mr. Chairman. As far as DENK is concerned, that wretched curfew goes into the trash as soon as possible. This measure, which goes far too far, causes too much damage in the Netherlands. Instead, the government must take measures that make sense, for example even more effort at home work, because 17% of cases are caused by people travelling to work. The government needs to focus even more on communication and on enforcing basic regulations. It must make even more effort to comply with the rules in supermarkets and in public transport. The curfew is unnecessary, unwise and disproportionate. Today I saw in the news that in Germany, the ministry engaged scientists to stir up corona fear. I wouldn't be surprised if that happens in the Netherlands. In any case, I would ask both gentlemen to respond. I want to rule out this happening in the Netherlands. We must not cause unnecessary fear to people in this country, but unfortunately that is happening. That's gotta stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think anyone here is a curfew lover and no one would have made it up, but so would the pandemic. As long as there are no other signs that it could be done, we would not be in favour of abolishing curfew now. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are, of course, all kinds of other measures which it is worth stepping up, whether they are working at home or improving vaccination. What we are very concerned about is why we are doing this. We do this because the hospitals are full and we fear a third wave. And what does the Cabinet do? For the fifth time, they ignore the advice of the Health Council and the vaccination is not applied to the most vulnerable and the elderly, but is divided into several groups. This only increases the risk of the third wave. I have daily contact with the United Kingdom and I can assure you that the measures there are a lot heavier than they are here. There is formally no curfew, but seeing other people is almost impossible. As far as we are concerned, this limitation to one visitor is a much heavier instrument. People have much more difficulty with the urgent advice to receive only one person and not receive a bubble. This leads to a lot more problems than the fact that you can't receive anyone after 9:00 in the evening. Mr President, I shall conclude. If the vaccination strategy remains as it is today, we fear that we will be stuck with these measures for far too long. We would rather have lost them today than tomorrow, but that is not possible if you see that the average life expectancy of Dutch men has decreased by nine months, and not due to an innocent flu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the FVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u42	Mr. Chairman. This debate is pointless. The outcome is already established: the curfew is extended until 3 March. With the support of the VVD, D66 and all other left-wing parties for a measure that limits our freedom in an extremely paternalistic way. That support was also in favour of the one-and-a-half meter rule, the ban on visits and the obligation to cover the mouth. This support was also for closing the schools and for the bizarre obligation to have children wearing masks at school. And no doubt soon for mandatory tests, mandatory quarantine and mandatory vaccination for our children. This support was also for the strictest and most damaging lockdown in Europe. That support is now there for the extension of curfew, a freedom-limiting measure that is unprecedented. A measure which mainly affects young people who have been in social isolation for more than a year now. In a few years, our kids will be asking, "But Daddy, or Mommy, what did you do during the corona crisis?" And then we have to answer: nothing; we all put on a mouth cover as a virtue symbol and we supported all these measures because we were terrified. Afraid of a virus that turned out to be a little more dangerous than a common flu, but mostly for people over 65 years of age overweight. And then there will be a question: but all those people with cancer and all those people who became unemployed? And you guys are gonna be full of teeth. No, Daddy or Mommy just got €10,000 salary per month and it was very annoying that we couldn't go to winter sports, but for the rest we didn't notice very much. But wasn't there ever a time when you could have stopped that disaster? I thought you were a member of the House of Representatives. I thought it was all yours. Mr. Chairman. This is one of those moments. Now it's time. Today we can stop this nonsense. Today, we can opt for a strategy that protects the elderly and the vulnerable, which scales up the care but frees the rest of society. Students back to school and students back to college! Hairdressers cutting again and the festivals full of dancing people again! Pubs and restaurants open again, so we can eat and drink together again. Shops open again, so we can see what we buy back to normal. Mr. Chairman. It's up to us today. That is why the Forum for Democracy will shortly again table a motion against curfew and for our freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u43	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Krol. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. The curfew is a huge restriction of freedom. I was against it and I'll stay against it. It has already been mentioned: reports about German colleagues are now circulating on the Internet. The German government has asked the German RIVM to present the situation as alarmingly as possible, so that far-reaching measures can count on more support. I therefore have an urgent question: what does the Prime Minister think of what is happening in Germany? It is in WELT AM SONNTAG; that is not a boulevard magazine. It is now being taken over by NOS and other Dutch media. How does he feel about that? Can he assure us that this will not be the case in the Netherlands? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u45	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this period. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. Shall we make it 15 minutes? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u46	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two comments in advance. Then I will answer the questions about curfew and a few other questions. The Minister of Justice will address these questions about curfew, which include the legal framework. First of all, the article in that WELT. I saw that. There is no such thing in the Netherlands, if such a thing already occurs in Germany. I do not know, but at least this is not the case in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. While we're talking, there's one thing I'd like to say in advance. Because of the bad weather, not everyone will be able to go to the test street. I hope most people do and they can. But if you can't do it, stay home if you have any complaints. I'd like to say that again. I'm saying that because I said last week in a press conference that I've never been tested. That's right. I did a little checking. That's how I followed all the rules. But it is good to mention them very briefly here. Namely: you get tested for complaints. You're staying at home with complaints, too. You'll get tested at the G.D.D. I have not had these complaints, nor have I received any reports through, for example, a source and contact investigation. But of course it is true that people can also be tested, even have to be tested, if, for example, they come from a high-risk country since December or are part of a large-scale test, as they are currently taking place or have taken place in a number of municipalities and neighbourhoods. Everyone is being tested. Testing without complaints is also useful in specific situations, for example in people who have been at risk of being infected by a close contact, or because someone has emerged from that source and contact research or from a CoronaMelder app notification. As you know, we are also currently testing an entire population of a community or district. The cabinet is also investigating the possibility of access tests. That is what I want to say here, because it is bad weather, so some people may not be able to go to the test street. If it doesn't work, it's awfully annoying, but don't go out on the street. Then stay home and get tested at the G.D.D. Then I have one final introductory remark, but it also gets to the point of curfew. The cabinet is very aware of the various social crises that are going on. Of course, the health crisis. This includes all measures. In addition, the socio-economic crisis. That includes all the support packages. But there is also a social-psychological crisis. That's what we're working on along a number of lines. We are looking at the situation of vulnerable young people, of young people in general, but certainly also of vulnerable young people, and of older people and adults. Think of the approach of loneliness, outpatient guidance and a healthy lifestyle. Tomorrow night at 7 p.m., I will talk to young people live through Instagram myself, but there will be many other initiatives in the near future. Next Friday, the cabinet will discuss the broad approach. Next Tuesday we will not be discussing it in a first round, I think, but we will do so as soon as possible about the impact of the crisis on education. In addition to the health crisis and the socio-economic crisis, we are working along all these lines to have a good impact on society and to formulate an answer to it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the questions about curfew. It runs formally, in parallel with the current lockdown, until March 3rd, 4:30 a.m. But it is a special measure, deployed on the basis of state emergency law, the Act extraordinary powers of civil authority. That is why we will follow that curfew very closely in the coming weeks. If there is reason to do so, we will stop this measure. This can be done as soon as possible, for example if new analyses by the OMT show that the contribution of curfew is limited and/or because the figures have developed favourably, also in relation to the different mutations we are seeing at the moment, such as the South African virus and other viruses, and of course the British virus. So if you can do that within the epidemiological picture... Given the status separate from this measure, we will at least review it separately on 23 February. The whole package will then be reconsidered, aimed at 3 March, but we will look into this in particular, alongside all other measures. Once again, in the worst case scenario, it continues until 3 March. Then, of course, comes the question of Mr Wilders and others: but why, because there is no actual proof of how it works? A few things about that. The Outbreak Management Team advises to continue the current measure, including curfew and visit restriction. They say, on the basis of their scientific opinion, that the epidemiological situation is still very vulnerable. This has to do with a accumulation of uncertain factors, such as the exact infectiousness of the British variant, the effect of the measures, but also the effect of the vaccination programme on the transmission of the virus. As a result, the estimates also have large margins of uncertainty and therefore large risks. An initial analysis of the effects supports the importance of all measures including curfew in the package. Furthermore, the need to achieve and maintain that reproductive factor, i.e. as low as possible, is still supported. The Outbreak Management Team has investigated in several ways whether there is already an effect on curfew and visit control in the context of the whole package of measures based on the calculation of the reproduction number, on the basis of research into the quantity and types of contacts and on the current evolution of recordings in the intensive care departments of the hospitals compared to the projections from the modelling. The impact measurements have, of course, limitations and uncertainties. It always is. The curfew and the visitor limit have only been introduced recently and that means that at least at the moment you cannot view the curfew separately from that visitor limit. Based on the modelling, the effect of the curfew and the visitor limitation has been calculated together on a 10% reduction, which is also consistent with the 8% to 13% reported in the literature. Now I can say a lot more about it, but you will also find that in the letter sent by the cabinet. For example, we have looked at the whole range of contacts that people have and that has been reduced. I can also go further into the recordings in the ICU departments if you like, or even wider about the results of modelling. All this adds up to an expected effect as I just mentioned, which is not exactly what we know now because it is still too short, but it already gives so much information that we say, in line with the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, that it is very wise to continue with these two measures. With regard to curfew, I can say a few last things, with which I have answered all the questions about curfew. I have already said something about the two to three week extension period. Mr Groothuizen has asked on which the cabinet bases it that the damage caused by the curfew is limited. It is true that we expect the additional damage to be limited. This has to do with the fact that there is less economic activity when it comes to economic activity in the evening and late evening and night. There's a lot of things that aren't possible. We can't go to the hospitality or the movies. Many economic activities that are now taking place, such as shiftwork, can still continue. This does not, of course, alter the fact that the sum total of all measures also affects contacts between people, social contacts. Of course it has an impact on that. It is also limited in the sense that it is after 9:00 p.m. We think with others here in the Chamber in the first term that the limitation of contacts at home, the visitor contacts, so one visitor at home and one visitor, has significant effects on the extent to which people experience the consequences of this crisis. But all things considered, we believe that this is proportionate to the need at present, given the epidemiological picture, to take this measure. This is in response to questions about curfew, unless the questions that Mr Grapperhaus will answer regarding the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u48	First Mr Wilders, then Mr Kuzu, Mr Hijink and Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u49	Many words from the Prime Minister, but in fact he confirms me on all three points, namely 1. that there is actually zero evidence that the curfew works, 2. that it is only theoretical modelling that says that it could produce something and 3. that it is always in conjunction with the visitation scheme. So the Prime Minister can't say what the effect of curfew is now. This could only be done together with the visitation scheme, but that does not really mean that he can do it. He just can't. He has a theoretical model, but he has to agree with me that he actually doesn't have any proof. The OMT also says that there is an effect of that curfew. Of course, I am not crazy; I see that you already have the coalition parties and some of the opposition parties behind you, but I still assume that we are not here in front of Piet Snot and that we can still have some influence on your policy. If you are a liberal, if you think that freedom is the greatest thing anyone has and that it can only be turned in if it is absolutely necessary and demonstrated that the measure has an effect on combating corona, then you will find me on your side, but that is not the case here. We don't know what the effect is here. It's a blow in the air. I would therefore ask you not to introduce the disproportionate measure of extending curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u50	Mr Wilders is quite right. Indeed, it is not yet possible to calculate exactly what the effect of the curfew is based on a calculated reproduction number. That's the number that indicates how many people infect other people once they're infected themselves. It is true that there is information. That information shows that curfew is starting to work. The Outbreak Management Team also believes that the effect can eventually be calculated back to a reduction of about 10%. That is very significant when you look at how important it is to control the epidemic. That has to do with the average number of contacts people had. This has visibly decreased compared to the period before the curfew and the visitation schedule. But even if you look at the number of ic recordings in the hospitals, you can see that exactly the line is followed of the prognosis in which the curfew and visitor limitation have an effect. You can see that even better than in the prognosis where this is not the case. On the basis of the results of those modellings, but also of the other modellings made by the OMT, the RIVM behavior unit and also the RIVM modelling department is the reduction achieved by the curfew and the visit scheme calculated and found to be at that 10%. So that's significant. The second is that the OMT is also showing what an extremely exciting phase of the crisis we are in, because there are great uncertainties about the British virus. Yes, the infection was assumed a little less than a week ago: not 50% more contagious but between 35 and 40%, but still significantly more contagious. The reproductive number of the British virus is also well above 1. That means we're at risk of moving up again. At such a stage, knowing that these measures are now showing the first effects, it would be extremely unwise, and even wrong, policy and also contrary to our joint task of protecting public health, if we let go of this measure now. We really shouldn't. The situation is far too fragile for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u51	What the Prime Minister says is just not right. Because that 10% is purely theoretical. He's talking about research, modelling. It's purely theoretical and it's a common percentage for curfew and visitor control. You're telling me that 10% is due to curfew. That's not true. In your letter you even say a. it's theoretical, it's a model and b. we can't separate that from, we have to assess that together with that visitor scheme. So maybe it's mainly the visitor's arrangement and not the curfew. You can't prove that. So you're kidding the Chamber and the Netherlands here. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the infection. That infection is still too high. I agree with the Prime Minister. But the infection has dropped. If we look at the infectious effects of the normal corona virus, then the R has dropped from 0.85 to 0.8. But the R of the UK virus, which is R of the British variant, has dropped more than 10% in a week. On 14 January it was 1.27 and on 22 January it was 1.13. That's a big drop. That R fell by over 10% in a week. Indeed, Mr. Rutte, that R is still above 1%, but this is all precurfew. The 1.13, which is 10% less, is from January 22, while the curfew started on January 23. So you have seen that even without the curfew the infectiousness, the R of that British variant, has fallen by more than 10% in a week. So it's not going the wrong way. It's still too high, but it's dropped substantially. Madam President. So the Prime Minister has no actual evidence that that curfew worked. That 10% is bullshit. That goes with the visitor scheme. And before the curfew was introduced, it was still too high R, that infectiousness of the UK variant, substantially and spectacularly decreased by 10%. And then he says, as a liberal: people, I extend it; I stay at home; maybe I'll change it in a few weeks and I'll fix it. You should, if you have something about freedom, not with these facts that just don't speak to your advantage, lock up the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u52	Mr Wilders is wrong on three points. First of all, it's not like there's no evidence. I just pointed that out. There is no direct effect of curfew, but what we can see now is this. Those are not figures in the future, those are proven figures. In the first place, they show that the number of contacts that people had has decreased compared to the period before the curfew and the visitation scheme. This shows the impact of these measures. The second is that you also see it in hospital admissions. They started to decrease significantly in the last few weeks. At the moment they show exactly the effect that would also fit with a successfully introduced curfew. So it is not true what Mr Wilders says; that it is all calculations to the future. That's point one. There are indeed figures that show that it is starting to work. The second point relates to the fact that it is a summing up of two measures. That's right. But what Mr Wilders could also read in the OMT's letter is that the self-reported follow-up of the curfew is very high: 95%, almost 100%. At the same time, he was able to read that the conduct studies carried out by the RIVM and the GGDs show that the support for and compliance with the enhanced visit control is much lower. So we are absolutely entitled to assume that in the mix of these two measures the curfew is dominant. So it does have effect. The last point concerns the infectiousness of the British virus. It is really irresponsible what Mr Wilders is doing here. He says, "Ah, he's falling a little, isn't that beautiful? And the R-number is 1,13; what are you worried about?" Mr President, 1.13 means that in eight days the number of people who are contagious doubles. That's not what the Netherlands can handle right now. We now have 540 people in intensive care. We currently have 100,000 people in the Netherlands who are contagious. We have such a large number of infectious people in the Netherlands and a reproduction factor of the English virus, which we now assume will account for two thirds of all infections, which are so high. In the figures from two weeks ago, it was a lot lower, about half. Now it is expected that two thirds of the number of people infected will become infected with the British virus. You're not sure yet, but that's what the RIVM and OMT expect. Then it is completely irresponsible to think that you can continue with a reproduction factor of 1.13. No, you can't. Because then you run the risk that this epidemic as a whole will rise again and that after a short decline we will get things up again, and even up sharply. So let's not take any chances now. We all want to get rid of that curfew, if it doesn't work and if we see epidemiologically things are better. But it is really very unwise what Mr Wilders is proposing here. Don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u53	Mr. Chairman. That we want to get rid of curfew has the Prime Minister and at least my group in common. But when we then look at the expressions that are being made about this, we really do differ. I also see that there are many questions in the VWS' request for advice regarding curfew. I mean, for example, on January 29th, the effect of curfew could not be involved, so can you, RIVM, please reflect the effects of curfew so that we can take that into account in this debate? But then we see that nothing is actually going to happen. I will not go into that again. The point is that we have seen that in one scientific research that percentage is raised from 8% to 13%. But in different reports and investigations we see that this is not happening. Why do the Prime Minister and the Cabinet actually stare blindly at one investigation, while several scientific studies indicate that it does not work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u54	RIVM's modelling unit is world-leading. The models developed by Jacco Wallinga and his team are used worldwide to track epidemiology in the field of COVID-19 and to see what's happening. We're really dealing with the very best people here. Besides, we don't only work with RIVM. We work in the Outbreak Management Team with a broad team of people from science. Obviously from virology, but also in adjacent areas, such as paediatrics and so on, to ensure that we build together an image of what is wise to do. Of course, there must be a political weighting afterwards, of course. They have told us, based on all the information they have, what they expect the effect of curfew will be. It takes a few weeks for you to actually see effects. Someone's getting infected. It'll take a few days for you to complain. Then it'll take you a few days to get the test results. You'll be home for a while and you'll have to wait for the test results. You'll get sick. Maybe seriously, and then you go to the hospital. Worst case scenario, you end up in intensive care. So it really takes some time for you to see the actual impact of an infection. There's a delay in that. You always look late in the past at that contamination. That is why they say: we cannot say exactly after two weeks, but two effects are now very clear. These effects are convincing, both in terms of people's contacts and in terms of hospital admissions. Against the background of the fact that the reproduction factor of the English variant is so high and that it is our joint task to keep the country safe and healthy and to lead through the health crisis, I would certainly find it unwise to go against an advice that is so clear from this organisation: from the Outbreak Management Team of virologists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u55	We can talk about the package of measures. There are also many other measures to be proposed, which can have much more effect. The point is that this is a radical measure, which the Prime Minister himself states he does not really want to do, but which he feels the need to do. At the same time, we see a lot of scientific research that says: it doesn't actually work. The Netherlands is not an island. We see that the curfew has also been introduced in other countries. Scientific literature and research is also available on this subject. I call Barbara Yaffe, associate medical officer of health at the University of Ontario, I call it Johns Hopkins Centre for Health Security. There's no good evidence that a curfew works. I don't think there's any kind of strong evidence that a curfew works. I haven't...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u56	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u57	I haven't seen any evidence yet that curfews are effective in limiting the spread of the virus. Many international studies indicate that it simply has no effect or that the effect cannot be determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u58	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u59	Why is the Prime Minister really staring blindly at one little investigation and at models that could possibly have an effect in Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u60	Because we are currently seeing in the COMIX study that the number of contacts that people have has decreased after the curfew setting. That's one. Two. We see that the number of ICU admissions and hospital patients follows exactly the line of the prognosis in which the curfew and visitation control have an effect. Those are not models from abroad, those are just the facts in the Netherlands. That's what I find important information the OMT comes up with. It tells us: Cabinet, be wise, given the great seriousness of the English virus and the great concern about it, it is not justified at the moment, simply not responsible, to stop this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u61	One final comment on this, because this is real magic with numbers. We can see that this falling trend has been in place since January. We are now in the middle of February, but that falling trend is really not due to the curfew. It is due to all kinds of other measures and the worldwide development of the virus. Now turning figures out and assigning that to the curfew, is not in line with what the OMT also states in the letter we received. I don't understand the Prime Minister. Why is he so persistent when it comes to curfew?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u62	This isn't right. The OMT is very clear about it, both about the COMIX study and about the effects at the moment in hospitals. The latter follows exactly the prognosis in which the curfew and the visitor limitation have effect. What Mr Kuzu is saying is really not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u63	I shall now give the floor to the Hijink, then to Mr Grothuizen and then to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u64	I hear the Prime Minister say and it is also stated in the letter that the curfew should preferably be stopped as soon as possible. I understand that, and the SP very much agrees with that. What I find difficult is that all measures apply until 3 March. The Prime Minister himself has just indicated that neither the OMT nor the Cabinet can judge whether the decline is determined by the curfew or by limiting the visit to home. If we can't do that now, Van Dissel has said it before: you can't take one measure out of it and there the effect of calculating it How does the cabinet plan to do it around the 23rd, if we can expect a new decision specifically on this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u65	That's gonna be tough. Mr Hijink is right about that. At the same time, you can see that compliance with curfew is almost 100% and compliance with the visitation scheme is unfortunately much lower. So you know in the mix that this measure is being respected a lot less. In the coming days, based on the advice we get from the modellers and the Outbreak Management Team, we will see what their latest insights are. Those analyses of the OMT and the advice that comes from them will determine whether or not you can stop curfew earlier. We find him so unique, it's such a special measure, it's such an exceptional situation, state emergency law, the Extraordinary Powers Act applies civil authority that we've really put him apart in the measures we're taking. In the worst case scenario, the measure will continue until 2, 3 March, until the end of the other measures, but it will really be placed on the screen separately on 23 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u66	I understand that, but I think it's important that the cabinet is honest about exactly what we're going to do. If we don't have a good view now or the effect that is now being achieved comes from a curfew or from limiting the visit to home, then the cabinet must see with the RIVM whether additional research can be done. Is that what's happening? Is research being done to see if it is possible to calculate the effect of curfew alone? Otherwise, I fear that we will be back here in two weeks' time and that the cabinet, the Prime Minister, will say: yes, we are seeing a certain trend, but we still cannot pull it apart and so we are forced to simply extend it again. If that's the idea right now, then maybe we should just be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u67	No, that's not the idea right now. In the coming days and weeks, we want to see if we are able to make more distinctions. We do not know for sure, I must agree with Mr Hijink. We are not sure, but unfortunately we are not sure much in this crisis. We'll check it out. What you know for sure is that the degree of compliance, of compliance, is different. I just said it. And we will, of course, try to inform the Chamber as well as possible on the basis of which we then take decisions. But to the question that was asked, what was leading it? I say: these are of course also the advice of the OMT by that time, both on what that curfew does and/or what epidemiology does, i.e. the degree of spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u68	On that very last point, I would like to ask a question. The cabinet wrote very clearly in the letter: when there is reason to stop that curfew, we do so immediately. Now I have asked, and so have several colleagues, what are the criteria that you are laying down. In fact, the Prime Minister says: if that curfew doesn't really do a lot or when the epidemic allows it. I understand, because of course those are a bit of the two flavors. But the question is how exactly the cabinet is going to weigh that. When is there such a favourable development or such an impact of that curfew that you must say: we are putting an end to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u69	I'm afraid you can't cut that exactly with a pair of scissors. That will also be something that we will put to the experts for consideration, and then we will also have to have an administrative and political judgement in the Cabinet and here in the Chamber. But we do want to know from the experts what their opinion is on how the virus is working and how it is spreading. For example, what are the latest insights, in the coming weeks, about the effects of the English variant? Of course, we all hope that this variant may not be too bad, but at the moment there is no reason to do so, because it has now fallen from 50% more contagious to 35% to 40% more contagious, but that is still a very high percentage more contagious than the classic variant. But who knows what the future days and weeks will be about that. That is what we want to know, of course. So you have to look at two things. Can you take a more isolated look at the effect of that curfew, and two, what is the state of the virus's spread at that time? Of course, that is also what we are presenting to the experts. That is not exactly in advance to cut with scissors, but the will is there in the cabinet to stop that curfew if it can. If it is not possible, it is not possible, but if it is possible, then we really want to judge it separately and then we will not wait until 2 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u70	I understand. Can I at least conclude from the Prime Minister's words that he does not say: I want to continue to extend this measure, even if there is only a small or even a very small effect? Is it a real consideration of the proportionality and the effect that curfew has on the virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u71	Yes. In any case, the curfew is of course a little heavier because it is such a violent intervention in people's personal freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u72	It is a good thing that the Prime Minister stresses that this proportionality test is particularly important here, because it affects a lot of people. A lot of people, I'd like to admit, don't have so much trouble with that at all. That is what we hear, but there are also people, sometimes young people, who really suffer from it. My concern is that it is very easy to put forward a reasoning on the basis of which you say "it is better to continue the curfew," while it is quite complicated to say very convincingly "now you can really stop." Don't you end up in the situation where you also say from all the calculations: it's always risky to let go of the curfew, so you better continue it? How does the Prime Minister weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u73	We will have to have that debate with each other, and that is what we need to keep ourselves on. Maybe I'll start with today's figures in Germany. They're doing five times better than the Netherlands. Germany is currently at a number of infections per day from 3,500 to 4,000, with a five-fold population. The Netherlands is also on such a number, apart from the cold days now, which reduces the number, but that's because fewer people are tested. But the number of infections was around 4,000 a day before the cold increased. So that's about what Germany's been reporting in the last few days. So we really don't have a situation in the Netherlands where we... And Germany is still not ready! There too, the German Chancellor said: I actually want to continue the whole package until early March. In other words, we still have a very complicated situation to deal with in the Netherlands, but once again with Mr Van der Staaij: if you have such a measure in your package as that curfew, then you really should avoid pushing it out of some kind of ease, in the vein of: well, let's continue with it. No, then you really need to be able to argue with him. I think we can do that today; based on what you can determine after two weeks, because you haven't got all the information yet. But the first information shows that the curfew works on the number of contacts and hospitalizations. We will, of course, follow that very closely in the coming weeks. But at the moment I am concerned about the large number of infections in the Netherlands every day, the fact that there are 100,000 people infected and that we now have an English variant that is in the mix for two thirds. That's really bad news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u74	We share the concern that I absolutely do not want to use laconically about that, that the number of infections is still too high. However, my concern remains that, with the continuation of measures, the social effects are sometimes stronger again. You can always continue to reason: leaving out the risks of action may be that a rapid increase is the result. How long can you do that and is that proportional? I would still like to put that question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u75	Yes. Just as simple and then complicated. Simply driven, you should say: why are we so busy looking at the socio-economic crisis and also at the socio-psychological crisis? That is precisely why Mr Van der Staaij refers to the enormous impact of the measures. The quickest way to resolve these two crises is, of course, to alleviate the measures. Of course, this can only happen if it does not lead to a further postponement of all kinds of other interventions in hospitals and a very high mortality rate among people with vulnerable health and elderly people in the Netherlands. That, of course, always remains the balance. So we need to keep a very close eye on how these things are going in the coming period. Let me give you one example of what we discussed yesterday in the cabinet. Until a while ago, it was very strong that if we looked at it from the economic point of view, "what could you do in enlargement when there is space again?', From the point of view of the health crisis, it was said 'of course we have to be careful with that; only if we can'. Last time I said that one of the variants we are looking at is: if there are extensions, can you not just give whole sectors room again, but can you take smaller steps over a wider front? That is also why we have now asked the Minister of Economic Affairs, together with the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, instead of each delivering their product separately and bringing it together, to look together: what will that look like when there is some space again? At the moment there is no room for this, other than for primary education and for click-and-collect, but we hope that it will come back at some point. We hope that perspective can be given and that perhaps you can say on a broader front than just the hairdressers or only the restaurants: what smaller steps can you take to gradually bring society back to normality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u76	Mr Krol and then Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u77	I asked two questions, which may be difficult to answer, in response to the coverage of WELT AM SONNTAG last weekend. It stated that the German cabinet has put pressure on the German RIVM to propose the situation more seriously than it is, in order to be able to take far-reaching measures. Now I understand that a judgment on the German colleagues may be difficult, but my second question was 'I hope it is not even more difficult' or you can rule out the fact that something similar has been the case in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u78	We have not done such a thing in the Netherlands. I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u79	Then I hope that history will be right for you in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u80	I hope so permanently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u81	Let me come back to the previous point, which colleagues have also mentioned, because the questions are quite right. The Prime Minister has been the one who has given the impression that curfew is, as soon as possible, the first measure to be removed. Today, as a Chamber, we are asking you to indicate which weighting factors are being taken into account. I do not think that is sufficiently clear. I really understand the situation, but I would like to ask: what more can the cabinet ask the experts so that we can have a little more insight into it in two weeks' time and so that we can make a distinction in what exactly is and is not the effect of that curfew? My second question is this: I have asked for attention for people for whom curfew has mental consequences. If the Prime Minister is talking about the socio-psychological crisis in which we find ourselves, to what extent is that a factor that weighs very heavily on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u82	The latter is of course also a reason why we give the curfew such a special position in the measures we are taking. You actually have the package of measures and separately the curfew, and that we weigh the curfew separately, both legally and in terms of content and impact on our freedom. You will notice remarkably that there is a lot of social support for curfew at the moment. Anyway, it's more common that polls show different than you'd suspect. It may be so, but that does not alter the fact that those factors still weigh heavily on me. Right now, we can't live without it. I find Mrs Van der Graaf's first point complicated. I cannot give the impression here that we can precisely send the OMT to some sort of distinction between the two measures and effectiveness with very clever questions. I would like to say here that we are looking at the two main questions, namely 'can we find out more about what curfew is doing?' And "what are the further insights about the risks we run?" Last week, before the Chamber debate, we saw the presentation by Jaap van Dissel, head of the RIVM Centre on Infection Disease Control; you all saw that presentation. This showed the degree of uncertainty in the estimates at the moment. If anything changes, you'll see huge differences. Then you can see the median being lifted tremendously. Even with the opening of primary education and childcare and maintaining the curfew, it could rise to 1,500 ic-beds. That is much lower this week, because it turns out that the English variant is less contagious. That kind of information is extremely essential to what you're going to do. The curfew is at the top of the pile of.... there you want the first from... and then you go look at the rest of the measures. But I can't go into more detail right now. Unfortunately, we don't have that information. It will have to come from the experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u83	Then I go to Mr Van Haga and then to Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u84	We do not really need to talk about curfew or the principle of curfew anymore, because you have already agreed your majority before this debate. I have already said that that is why it is a little pointless. There's no evidence to support it. There is a lot to be said about the English version, because even in the English hospitals there is no increase. But I actually want to talk about something else. Last week I asked you about the exception concerning sick visits. You said you'd think about it. There are people with cancer in the hospital and they cannot now receive visitors after 9:00 p.m. It's even worse, because people should, for example, be visiting the AVL...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u85	Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u86	This is just a little introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u87	No, I don't want to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u88	Okay. But you'd think about it, Prime Minister. Have you thought about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u89	I am going to raise a point, because we discussed it extensively last time. Today is really just about curfew. We also voted on a motion on this today. I do not want us to have a repeat of moves now. You may ask, but I would add that it's really just about curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u90	I ask precisely because we agreed last time that the Prime Minister would think about it. My question is, have you thought about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u91	Well, have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u92	I answered this last week. The situation that Mr Van Haga is presenting is, of course, poignant. It's very bad as someone... I've been through that myself with friends who are very, very sick. Then it's really nice if you can go to them late at night if you can't do your job during visiting hours or otherwise. I get that for the full one hundred, two hundred, three hundred percent. We've made an exception for someone close to death. Then it is possible to get out of visiting times. But we do not want to deviate from the existing list of exceptions, however painful that may be. I get it, but there are a lot more painful situations. This is certainly one of them; Mr Van Haga is right about that. But if you continue to expand that list, the maintenance of curfew is becoming more and more difficult. Then the police and the security regions say: we really shouldn't do that. But I understand the situation and I also agree with Mr Van Haga that these are really poignant circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u93	That's what you said. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u94	I'm happy with the concept, but I don't understand why an exception is made for people who are allowed to sit on live talk show; I think that can all be done online. However, I would like to ask for an additional exception to be made in this particular case, which is really not about a lot of people. Maybe we'll delete the exception for the live talk shows. Maybe that'll get rid of each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u95	Those live talk shows have their own story. In such a crisis, it is very important that the Netherlands remains well informed about what is going on around this crisis. Television plays a very important role in this. You can still see a huge return of people to the classic live broadcast TV shows, like the big news stories think of RTL Nieuws and NOS same as the big talk shows. They just have their own meaning in that. We have said many times: if we can do something, we try to do it at once, but we cannot do it at 100%. In hospitals it is true that patients are very close to death, unfortunately, it is absolutely true that also outside visiting times and also outside the nine-hour rule can be visited. But it can't be wider. I understand this is painful. There are more painful situations, but this one is definitely one. But we have really had to decide, also because of the persistence, to stick to these exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u96	That's what you said. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u97	Finally. We are now entering a new period of three weeks. Last time it was in a week and now it's in three weeks. Last time you said, "I'm gonna think about it." I'm not going to file another motion, because I already did. It's been voted off. That's incomprehensible, but true. So I'd like to ask you to reconsider. And if there's any possibility, do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u98	The whole package is horrible. This measure is also terrible. But we also have a very serious public health crisis that affects the whole country. This calls for extremely difficult considerations, decisions and conclusions. I can't walk away from that. But here making exceptions to the list is not going to work in enforcement. I am terribly sorry, but I understand that Mr Van Haga here appoints a group for whom that can really be very difficult. Very painful, too. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u99	The weighting of proportionality and interests is a political choice. The prime minister can't outsource that to the OMT, can he? Of course, this weighting of proportionality and interests is ahead of us again on 23 February. This is about the social-emotional impact of this measure. It's about the infections. The question is what other measures could have been taken, such as more work at home and less air traffic. My question to the Prime Minister is how we are going to better shape this weighting of proportionality and interests on 23 February than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u100	Mr Grapperhaus will be able to say a few words about proportionality in the distribution of tasks. But that is, of course, a matter that we have to answer. I get that question. By the way, I'm gonna be working at home in a few minutes, and I'm gonna be flying in closer. I believe that we have put a lot of restrictions on flying, as rightly advocated by GroenLinks, D66 and others here in debates. But that's also a job we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u101	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u102	But at the moment we are just dealing with a situation in which the public health crisis is so serious and so serious that we cannot do without this measure. Of course, that's the tragedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u103	We have indicated that we understand that at the moment. Only, in response to questions from colleagues, it is said that we ask the OMT for advice and if the OMT's advice is there, then we will act accordingly. But there is still the weighting of proportionality and interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u104	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u105	How do we secure it on 23 February in a perhaps better way than we do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u106	Apart from that, whether that is not going well or not, in Mrs Kröger's question I hear a critical undertone which I respect first of all the misunderstanding. It's not like the OMT's gonna decide this. The OMT advises. And you are absolutely right; then it is administrative and political to the cabinet and then also to the cabinet and Chamber to make choices. In doing so, the cross-cutting test is always being carried out, as it is called: what are these measures doing in all kinds of other areas? You may need them to fight the epidemic, but what are they doing on the other side? Are there any alternatives? We have to do that all the time. In addition, the curfew is, of course, a major intervention in our personal freedom that requires a special foundation. So I agree. However, I would like to touch briefly on a few questions from Mrs Kröger and others about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u107	Yes, but very briefly, because I know exactly which questions they are. Again, we have agreed that today we will only talk about curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u108	That's good, but then I'm going to ask you, Mr President, if it's okay that I don't answer the question about working at home. Yeah, I'm just gonna say it, or I'm gonna have a fight with the room. I respect that, of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u109	Well, if you answer it very briefly. I'm sure this subject will come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u110	The shortest thing I can do is this. A letter was sent on 3 February by Wouter Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs. Actually, I wrote it out here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u111	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u112	Then don't let me do that. Perhaps I may refer, under your guidance, to the subject, but the question has been asked by Mrs Kröger, among others. But I refer briefly to that letter. We're working on it. The second question asked by Mr Hijink was what is happening to give young people more perspective while schools are still closed. I have already said something about what we are now working on as a cabinet, broad for all kinds of groups and specifically for young people, both school and wider social impact. We'll come back to that. So maybe that's how I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u113	Exactly. A motion for a resolution was adopted on this subject today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u114	There was a question from Mrs Kröger about the number of beds in the youth ggz crisis. Maybe I can answer that very briefly. The Secretary of State has discussed these signals with the VNG. In order to gain a better understanding of capacity and bottlenecks, it has been agreed to present this further as soon as possible. There is currently a question about this in the 42 youth aid regions and the relevant providers. The Secretary of State will inform you about this in the near future. Then there was a question from Mrs Kröger who is a little outside the playing field why we fly to Dubai twice a day. I can't answer that or with one sentence. The cabinet has asked the experts whether additional measures should be taken for countries such as Portugal or Dubai. It has now been reported that this is not necessary, given the double test obligation and quarantine upon arrival in the Netherlands. Of course, this is something we constantly monitor, also on the advice of the OMT. There was a question from Mr Wilders about the vaccination of 60- to 65-year-olds. I think it is outside the scope of this debate, so I am leaving it unanswered for the moment. It seems to me that it will certainly come back to the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u115	I'm sure you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u116	I think the same applies to the interest in the Israeli medicine and the Sputnik vaccine, so I leave it unanswered. Finally, when is there an opinion for the opening of secondary education? That was a question from Mrs Kröger. We want to see what can be done with secondary education on 23 February as of 2 March, so that comes on 23 February. That would be all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u117	In that week we will also have a debate on the measures announced or not announced. Thank you. We will wait for the change for a moment and then I will give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security. Let's clean up first. We are also going to vote today, I say for those who may have forgotten. I now turn to the Minister for Justice and Security, who, as always, is very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll live up to my reputation. I have a few answers and they are mostly legal in nature. I will also say something, as the Prime Minister pointed out, about this point of proportionality: what exactly is the weighting? First of all, of course, a number of members asked why this Wbbbg and not the Temporary Law measures covid-19? The abbreviation Wbbbg stands for Act extraordinary powers of civil authority. That's a law that was created a long time ago. It is an extraordinary instrument with special powers and also with all kinds of special guarantees. I will come to the question in a moment about the urgency of the so-called 'Extension Act'. Those guarantees have actually been increased by the government in response to pressure from your Chamber by the intention to first notify your Chamber of the first curfew a few weeks ago, so that we have at least been able to discuss this with each other. The effect of this is that on Friday 22 January, two days after we had had the debate here, the royal decree for implementation was signed by the majesty and the Prime Minister. On that basis, the same day I signed the ministerial arrangement which contained the details of the curfew arrangement. Immediately after its adoption, work on drawing up the legislative proposal and the explanatory memorandum was carried out. That can only be done at that time, because then you know what the details are and what the underlying argumentation, justification, of the OMT is. This will allow you to take the proportionality test as a whole. On 26 January the draft law was sent to the Advisory Section of the Council of State for its opinion. The King's formal offer wasn't until the 29th, but we've already deposited it with the Council of State on the 26th. He worked on it with great urgency and delivered his opinion on Monday 1 February. The further report was sent to the King on Tuesday 2 February. That same day it entered your room, I understand. We have done everything we can to ensure that this concept is 'unfortunately'. Mr President, I know that you want to be brief, so I would like to say that in the written reply to your Chamber I will go into that much more detail. I don't want to remember one thing, if that's okay with you. The concept of "undue" is generally seen in legislation as synonymous with "without unnecessary delay," "without avoidable delay" and "without unnecessary delay." Then I'll skip over a whole piece of what I'm sending you in writing. But then this quote: "In the note sent to the House of Representatives on 3 July 2018 on the modernisation of state emergency law, I indicated that the legal procedure means that a continuous legislative proposal that we are discussing here will only be submitted to the House of Representatives for at least a few days." We also have this process that you need to be able to sort it out exactly and have the right explanation, because it is such an essential tool. And then, of course, it has to be passed by the Council of State for advice and signed by the King and the mp. That's my... I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u119	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u120	No, I've got two more dots and then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u121	Why don't we do it first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u122	Shall we do it first? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u123	Then you will have the opportunity, Mr. Groothuizen, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u124	Mr. Chairman. Then I have something that is in the extension of this. That is the question: is a new law needed for renewal? No. There is no need for a new law to extend the scheme. The KB, on the basis of which the law was made, is still valid. It goes without saying that your Chamber can immediately call the cabinet here and say: we ourselves want this to stop. That was an answer to Mrs Van der Graaf's question. Let me now turn to the question of proportionality. At least I have weighed it and discussed it on both sides of the scale, calling it four main categories of weighing. On the one hand there is the seriousness of the pandemic, there is the state of play on the pandemic. In doing so, you could point out the developments resulting from that British variant. Then there are the points of the expected effectiveness of the medicine, in this case curfew, and the extent to which you are going to monitor and its duration. Yesterday, in the letter to the Chamber, I made a very clear reference to this paragraph which emphasizes that we will do so very carefully. On the other hand, there are the points of social, socio-economic impact. I'll just say the side effects that there may be: leaking effects and the like. Then there is the question: were there any alternatives? The term "empty toolbox" has already been mentioned several times in this context. Finally, there is the point of enforcement, because if you enter such a thing, you must also be able to say that it is going to be something that is enforceable and that we will get on with. The final point, Mr President, is the question of new exceptions. Mrs Van der Graaf drew attention to the motion on practical education. There will be no new exceptions. The Outbreak Management Team clearly advises in its letter to continue the current package of measures first one says "without prejudice" and later again "unchanged" on page 6. The starting point is to keep the scheme as simple as possible. In practice, the current regime has proved to be feasible and enforceable. I did that two weeks ago, I think I just lost count on 20 January. That was two and a half weeks ago. That is when I said that there are exceptions. That is also handled very well by the police, as we now notice. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u125	Mr Grothuizen, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u126	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are not simply asking this question when it is 'unfortunate' that something is being submitted, not even Mr Van der Staaij, whom I now see walking to the microphone. That is, of course, ultimately because that is the instrument of the Chamber to say at some point: we did not agree with this measure. The Minister is now exhausting himself by saying: I have worked really hard; I have done my best. But in the first Corona debate, he promised to be ready to go: it's really a matter of a few days before I come to the Chamber with it. That took 12 days, and that is just too long, as far as I am concerned. I don't understand it so well. When I look at the law, it is three articles, including a citation and an entry into force clause. What took you so long? Why did the Minister wait so long before this bill was submitted to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u127	I want to confirm immediately that I thought we could deal with it more quickly without delay. But to do it really well and carefully it took longer. Moreover, I would like to stress that this suggestion has been made that together, the States-General and the Cabinet, we have broken the world record with the law relating to the entry ban. They also had the same preparation and treatment period. Again, we have made every effort to get it to the Council of State in time for advice and to bring it to your Chamber on 2 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u128	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u129	There is a cautious excuse for that, but I would also like the Minister to acknowledge that, if it takes so long and you are still talking about confirming the first curfew when you are already talking about the extension, it gets a little sensual. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u130	No, I really don't agree with you. Sorry. Now I apologize for disagreeing with Mr Groothuizen. That has become a bit of our relationship in recent years. We have just said at the front: we come to your Chamber with the intention. So we already discussed this in detail, with all the points that people did not agree on. The second is that of my officials and the Council of State, and not of mine, which has worked very hard on this. It was in your room on February 2nd. I understand that it will not be on the agenda until next Thursday at your Chamber. That's how it's going to be over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u131	No, the Chamber has also been incredibly busy dealing with all these emergency laws...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u132	That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u133	...with less support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u134	I understand that everyone is doing their utmost, but that comes from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u135	The Minister says that the Chamber has already given its approval. Yes, the House of Commons. The First Chamber has not yet been able to rule on the justification of this curfew measure, while there is already an extension. Does the Minister find that also democratically uncomfortable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u136	It's complicated. It has the function of chambre de réflexion, but we want to get through this situation as quickly as possible. We want to keep up this speed at this time. But once again, we have already placed it in front of your House of Representatives and that of course also gives an idea of how politics is thought about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u137	Mr Van der Staaij. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u138	Yes, Chairman, finally. This certainly shows how politically we think about it, but it remains uncomfortable for my group that we are now using a special construction of state emergency law, while the Minister has shown that he could very quickly pass a law through the Second and First Chambers on other parts, such as entry and testing. Why do you follow such a special state emergency procedure as you yourself have shown that you can do it very quickly with ordinary legislation and the adaptation of the corona rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u139	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'll tell you soon. There is a very different legal and technical beginning to this. The Wbbbg requires a certain procedure for cases like curfew. You cannot define the measures provided for in Temporary Law covid-19, whichever way you turn or turn it is an ordinary law. This has been dealt with separately in our legislation for a very long time. You have to follow that procedure. I and the cabinet felt that we should go to your Chamber right at the start, so that at least we had a debate at the beginning. Because your room is busy and needs to look at a lot of things as a matter of urgency. Everyone is doing their best, but this is obviously the quickest way to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u140	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I'm looking around who needs a second deadline for filing a motion. Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u141	Madam President. It's unbelievable how easy it is to set aside our freedom in this country, our greatest asset. There is zero, but also zero factual evidence that the curfew has worked. There's zero evidence. And it is pure impotence of this cabinet to take away our freedom. I find it unacceptable. Hence the next motion, to try to avoid that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to extend the curfew and to withdraw the decision to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet, Mr Krol and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-980]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u143	Thank you. I'll see who needs a second term. Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is, in fact, a great low point that we stand here and restrict our freedom in this way and that nobody, but nobody, does anything and that the majority for this dystopian measure was already arranged for the debate. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has decided to extend the curfew, which was due to end at 4.30 a.m. on Wednesday 10 February 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain this end date and not to extend the curfew,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-981]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u145	Mr. Chairman. I realise, of course, that this is a firm measure. That is what the debate was about, also last time. I would like to refer to the discussion that we have just had and the seriousness of the situation. 980 and 981, which are about the same, want to discourage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u146	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-tweedekamer-35.u147	I'm suspending the meeting until the voting list arrives. I'll suspend for five minutes.
