ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u1	That was a lot of call, but I'll reopen the meeting right away. Some of them are the same speakers. I call Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This time three motions from my side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that legal developments in several European Member States give rise to doubts about the independence of the judiciary in those Member States;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Court of Justice of the EU in its judgment of 17 December 2020 that European arrest warrants issued by Poland should not be categorically refused;]] [[Whereas the burden of proof to show that a suspect is in real danger of one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is very high;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Framework Decision is implemented by judicial authorities in other European Member States and how case law is interpreted, so that it becomes clear whether wider powers for judges to refuse surrenders where there are serious doubts about the independence of the case-law or a fair trial are necessary and desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-696]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u3	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Framework Decision does not provide a basis for obtaining guarantees on a fair trial or a maximum duration of detention in the event of the surrender of a suspect;]] [[noting that it is possible to enter into consultations with the issuing Member State on medical conditions in the case of European arrest warrants as an executing Member State;]] [[noting that several times in the past there have been doubts about detention conditions in several Member States;]] [[Considers that guarantees regarding fundamental rights, in this case a fair trial, the maximum duration of detention, medical conditions, as well as detention conditions, should be possible in case of surrender of suspects to other Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to reach, in a European or bilateral context, the possibility of requesting guarantees from the issuing Member State in respect of a fair trial, the maximum duration of detention, medical conditions and detention conditions in case of surrender of suspects and the possibility of considering compliance with such guarantees in the past in the event of further requests for surrender,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-697]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u4	And then very soon the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years parking fines have been increasingly imposed on foreign registration holders, except for drivers from Belgium, Germany and Switzerland, because additional agreements have been concluded with those countries in order to promote the payment of parking fines;]] [[considers that it is unfair that error parkers with a Dutch registration number are fined, but are hardly fined for fault parkers with a foreign registration number;]] [[Whereas, for example, the wheel clamp is an appropriate means of enforcing the payment of a fine, but the use of wheel clamps varies from municipality to municipality;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to reach agreements within the EU to impose the payment of parking fines for foreign registration holders;]] [[calls on the government to engage in talks with local authorities to inform them that car offenders of foreign registration cars should not be allowed to get away with their offence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-698]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you briefly that Mr Dekker and I, in essence, have formed a certain form of common household in the department during the corona period. And that's only good for unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u6	Please spare me the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u7	Oh, I understand you're always so interested in that in committee debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u8	Yeah, right there. But here I want to keep it a bit housebroken. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u9	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions from the Member Van Nispen. I really have to say that Mr Van Nispen and I are going to achieve a joint personal record today in terms of the number of motions that I have already been able to give Chamber and in terms of what is added. The first motion concerns an investigation into the way in which the Framework Decision is implemented by judicial authorities in other European Member States. How is that also interpreted in the caselaw? For example, we can really see whether wider powers for judges to refuse surrenders when serious doubts exist, are necessary and desirable. I leave that motion to the House's judgment, because I understand that very well. I understand very well that your room is asking for such an investigation. The judge may, as we have seen in recent years, refuse surrender where there are systematic defects in the legal order of a country and where there are serious reasons in a specific individual case to believe that the right to a fair trial will be violated after surrender. For example, the international chamber in Amsterdam did so earlier this year with the refusal of a surrender to Poland. Therefore, refusal in individual cases is possible. Categorically refusing, so without individual review, the court of justice considers inadmissible. This would require an amendment to the Framework Decision, but I do not see any reason to do so. In any case, we should just ask other Member States how their judicial authorities apply it in practice. Judge Room, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u10	The motion in part No. 696 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u11	The second motion, the motion in part No. 697 Therefore, I thought a little bit more about the first request for the possibility, at European or bilateral level, as an implementing Member State, to ask for guarantees from an issuing Member State in respect of the trial, the duration of the detention, medical detention, the circumstances and that sort of thing more. But guarantees under the Framework Decision are only possible in the case of life imprisonment and the surrender of nationals. However, the Framework Decision provides for the possibility of asking questions and making commitments by the judicial authorities concerned. In this context, commitments on detention conditions and medical treatment during detention can in any case already be made. The maximum duration of detention in another State is, of course, dependent on the law in force there and what the judge has decided on it. Taking into account that right, the issuing judicial authority may assess the expected duration of the pre-trial detention. As far as the right to a fair trial is concerned, I would like to mention the following. Depending on the response of the issuing judicial authority, the executing judicial authority itself should assess the guarantee of that right in the issuing Member State. As has just been pointed out with regard to the previous motion, this may, in the current circumstances, give rise to a refusal of surrender. I have also mentioned an example of a statement. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the more fundamental objection in asking for guarantees on fundamental rights that should already apply to everyone. If we are going to make bilateral agreements on this, we will essentially weaken the European agreements. You should change that framework decision, by the way. Only the Commission can take the initiative. Mr. Chairman. All in all, I think you must have thought that I would have the motion in part No. 697, which asks for opportunities for guarantees on all these points, should be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u12	The motion in part No. 697 has been dissuaded. Mr Van Nispen has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u13	I understand what the Minister is saying, but I will explain it anyway. This motion, of course, stems from the concern that the judiciary in certain European Member States is no longer independent and that the fair trial is under serious pressure. Both ministers have often rightly drawn attention to this at European level. When a judge does not have the opportunity to refuse a surrender and someone has to be handed over to a country like Poland, for example, which has actually recently also given rise to parliamentary questions on our part, there is a risk that a judge will not be able to refuse the surrender. However, experience has shown that someone in that other country is in detention for years, which means that there are serious doubts about the right to a fair trial. Why should we, as far as I am concerned, also have to change the word 'guarantees' into 'commitments' if we cannot agree on them and you cannot ask for guarantees from other countries, so that we can change the word 'guarantees' into 'commitments' and then hand them over to a Dutch national, where there is a risk that they will not get a fair trial and may go into detention in bad circumstances for years? The motion comes from that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u14	Let me explain it simply to the people who are watching here and elsewhere. Of course, we have this system of agreements in principle, allowing one Member State in the European Union to request another Member State for surrender. One is the issuing and the other is the executing of the two. Then there is the possibility that I indicated at the previous motion that the judge refused to surrender. He could then say that there are in the system of the country that asks me to deliver Mrs X such defects that I think there is a chance that this Mrs X's right to a fair trial will be violated after that surrender. So the judge says, "I don't do that." I would also like to mention the example of Poland. The Amsterdam Court has actually done so in that case. I, as Minister for Justice and Security, believe that this is also how it should be based on the principles of the Union. The court which is required to rule on this matter in the country where the request for surrender arrives. If the judge says in certain situations that the legal order is not good and that this lady will not get a fair trial, he can refuse. I think that should be the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u15	The agreement on mutual trust in Europe dates back to a time when concerns about certain Member States were even smaller. I know what the Minister's saying. Ideally, a tradition should then be rejected, but we are not yet at that point. We're gonna take the investigation from the motion to piece number one. 696 to look at how other Member States look at it. But this motion is actually about the maximum duration of the detention or concerns about a fair trial. Let me limit it to that maximum period of detention. That in itself is not a reason for a judge to refuse a tradition. There can be no agreement or commitment on this at the moment either. That's actually exactly what this motion says. If a surrender cannot be refused on the basis of current law and a Dutch citizen must be handed over to, for example, Poland, then the agreement cannot now be made that the detention may be a maximum of a certain period. I think that's an omission. This motion is actually asking for it to be restored.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u16	That is not an omission in the current system. I'm really trying to explain it as simple as possible. If a request for the surrender of someone comes from another European country, the judge in the Netherlands can say: I do not do so with the motivation that I find that the system is so structured that they do not get a fair trial. That's quite a decision. That should be very good, systematic foundation and argument for the judge. That's how it's supposed to work. If you were going to go to a situation where you are going to make all kinds of weighting about how certain differences between the systems might turn out, then you want to have guarantees that they are all exactly the same deadlines and other things as in the Netherlands. In such a case, as a legislator, you are going to look at it in far too much substance, whereas it is precisely the case that an independent judge says: no, I am not going to surrender these arguments. For that reason, or at least with this explanation, I advise against the motion in part No. 697.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u17	I'm following the Minister's explanation very well. I think he has also explained to the viewer quite understandably how this system works. It is, of course, difficult for a person whose surrender is requested to prove circumstances and make them substantial in court, which makes it clear that, in his or her case, the right to a fair trial is being violated. Of course, that's a lot of trouble. You say that it is about the general assessment of the judge of the system in another country. But it's a little more complicated than that. I'm going to find a solution. You said that the words in the motion 'the maximum duration of the detention', 'a fair trial' and 'guarantees' are contrary to the system we now have. I do not want to interfere with Mr Van Nispen's text, but would the motion become a little more acceptable to you if he took out those elements and replaced 'guarantees' with 'commitments'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u18	No. I know that Mr Ellian has very sincere intentions, and this also applies if he does not have them, but I would also like to explain this very simply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u19	And very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u20	Yes, very briefly. I think it is very important for our independent judge to make an assessment of the question: should Mrs X be handed over to that country? That court has a reasoned opinion and concerns the case, but of course also the system of that legal order. If we are going to say from the legislative and executive power that we are going to frame that much more ourselves and that we are going to ask for guarantees in advance that it meets certain standards that we have, then we are going to fill in things much more than we should. We just need to leave that weighting with the judge. That is why the word "guarantees" or "commitments" does not matter so much. And that is why I have given a ruling to the House on Mr Van Nispen's motion, which asks: investigate how this is happening in other European countries. We can learn from this with each other: how do these independent authorities in the different countries view it? Mr President, I see that you liked my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u21	Yes, thank you very much. Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 698.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u22	At the motion in part No. 698 on parking tickets is the good news that I can leave that judgment room. I agree with Mr Van Nispen that we still need to improve this. We have greatly improved it, but we need to improve even more on these parking violations within Europe. Together with a number of other Member States, we have asked for the Cross Border Enforcement Directive to be extended to include parking violations. I'll keep your room informed of that. The colleague of the Interior regularly talks with municipalities and will highlight the concerns about enforcement and collection. So I'll leave the motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u23	The motion in part No. 698 gets judgment Chamber. Thank you very much. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-44.u24	I shall suspend for a few moments to give the Chamber the opportunity to change its composition for the next debate. That will be the two-minute Youth Policy/House violence and child abuse debate.
