ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35517. Amendment of the Housing Act 2014, the Housing Act, Book 7 of the Civil Code and the Transition Act new Civil Code following the review of the revised Housing Act and to extend the possibilities for temporary leases. We have arrived at the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have two debates here today, so I hope I can keep the two well apart. If I suddenly start talking about municipal reclassifications, you will know that something is not going well, because we are indeed talking about the Housing Act now. I'm glad we're dealing with them today, not long before the summer recess. The House Act is an important law. Reference has already been made to the history of the Housing Act and to how important that law has been, even in the past. I think we do have a special construction in the Netherlands, in which we have housing corporations that really make an indispensable contribution to housing in the Netherlands. And yes, in the recent past, there has also been some error in the housing corporations. That was also reason to tackle that and to really attract the reins. But if you look all over history and keep an eye on the goal, that is of course making sure that there are affordable rentals of good quality for people who need it, who otherwise could not find a good home with them. As I said, there was reason to change the law in 2015. At that time, the activities of corporations were highly regulated. This has led the corporations to focus more on what they actually exist for, namely: housing those people who really need it. That is the most important task they have. At that time, we had seen that housing corporations had actually strayed from their core task. They had sometimes strayed so far that it was also at the expense of that core task. That's not good. It is therefore perfectly understandable that this happened at the time. There was every reason to tighten up and amend that law. At the same time, we have found that the law leaves too little room for local customisation and that it has also led to relatively high administrative burdens. What do we want to achieve with this change of law? With this change of law, we want to enable corporations to play their role better. It's just about the core of the job they have in the housing market. I am really glad to hear in the Chamber today that this is supported here too, especially when it comes to the functioning, feasibility and future stability of the law. This is seen in cases such as local customization, less administrative burden, more risk-oriented supervision by removing detailed rules............................................................................................................................................................................................. In doing so, I believe that the strength of the corporations improves, so that they are even better able to provide those affordable, sustainable and high-quality homes for those who need them, people with lower incomes. The corporations are there to build houses and manage houses, we all know that, but of course they also have a very important role to play in making homes more sustainable. They also have a very important role when it comes to the viability of the neighbourhoods in the Netherlands. You will also have noticed that the changes were not just conceived in the Ministry, but that we are really working closely together with Aedes, but also with the Housing Union, the VNG and the Authority for Housing Corporations, for example. We do that in good cooperation. Mr President, I now turn to the specific questions. First of all, a few questions about sustainability. Mrs De Boer asked whether the housing vision and performance agreements could include an obligation to set sustainability requirements for new construction. So the bill also makes it easier for housing corporations to make it more sustainable. The corporations are obliged, on the basis of popular housing priorities, set by the responsible minister every four years, to make known their intentions for sustainability in their municipal housing vision. Municipalities and also the tenants just need to know what their plans are. Next, local performance agreements are made, as we always do, so that I can ensure that the discussion about sustainability is conducted locally, and that parties include this in their performance agreements. So you can see through that route that in by far the majority of performance agreements sustainability measures are agreed between local parties. Mr Van Hattem asked whether corporations could introduce land positions in energy cooperatives. He quoted from the explanatory memorandum the possibilities for cooperation with energy cooperatives. The bill offers corporations more opportunities to invest in energy generation, but it has to be about energy generation on or on their own buildings and the underlying land, just like other property owners can do. Energy generation at unbuilt land positions of housing corporations is not included. Windmill parks, solar fields, large-scale energy generation, that is not the domain of popular housing but is the domain of energy suppliers. That is not the job of the housing corporations either. The social capacity they have is therefore not intended for this purpose either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u4	In itself a very clear explanation from the Minister, but if I look closely at the law and the explanatory statement, there is only talk about real estate. Land itself can also be regarded as a piece of real estate. So on what legal basis can the Minister rule out the possibility that housing corporations will not start working with wind farms and solar fields in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u5	It doesn't fit the law. It is good to exchange that here, which is also part of the legal history. It must be on or on the buildings or on the underlying land and therefore not on unbuilt land positions of housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u6	Thank you. It is indeed a good thing that this is now part of the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. One more question about sustainability. That's the question of the CDA if the tenants notice anything. The bill offers corporations the opportunity to make their own property more sustainable and to take care of other homeowners in the case of speckled property or mixed complexes and to include that in their projects. For example, housing corporations can deliver energy directly back to the grid and settle with tenants. That's good for tenants. Aedes and the Woonbond have also included in their social rental agreement a table on which rent increases are reasonable if they are preserved. So in that sense, the effects for the tenants were indeed included. Then a single question about the buy-back protection. Many comments have been made, but I thought that only Mr Crone has asked a question about this. He had understood that obstacles were still seen by aldermen in introducing buy-back protection. I am in contact with several municipalities that would like to introduce that buy-back protection, actually rather today than tomorrow. They're very pleased with the opportunity they're getting. In a few parts, they ask themselves how to interpret that exactly.The amendment is now simply part of the legislative proposal and whether it is technically organised in the most efficient way. My ministry is now in talks with these municipalities to help them implement it. For the time being, we think we can get out of that in good consultation. We do not now see any crucial bottlenecks in its introduction. If they do come up, they must be taken away, because I too would very much like these municipalities to be able to get to work on this instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u8	I understand you can buy a property for immediate family, for your kids or whatever. There is no buy-back protection for that. But when it comes to what exactly falls within the scope of family, close relations and so on and the question of whether you should be registered in the population register or what it is called today, I would like to say: let us agree here that it is not the intention to evade the law. The mind is of course: the closer to the buyer, the easier it is. You may come across it if it is a problem, but I hope that together we do not think it should be a trick to get out of this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u9	No, not at all. Mr Crone's question is prompted by the fact that these kinds of talks are taking place and that these kinds of questions live with municipalities. From the Ministry, in consultation with the municipalities, we give the answers and see how it works out in the implementation. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions and comments about the temporary leases. First a little more factual and then the more fundamental issue, which has also been raised today. Mrs De Boer and others asked about the evaluation of the temporary contracts. It's here by now, but it's only just now. It was sent to the Rooms yesterday and, I presume, exploded here on the doormat. I have the impression that not everyone has actually received it, but the evaluation is there and that is what both Chambers have at their disposal. Then there is the comment by Mr Crone and others on temporary contracts. They asked: was it not intended that temporary contracts should not become the main rule; how does the Minister view this? I do believe that the standard is the regular rent and not the temporary contract. That is what I have always said, both in this Chamber and in the House of Representatives. That is not to say that temporary contracts and forms of temporary contracts were mentioned by Mr Crone, although I do not think he can work properly. Large families, PhD students, expats: we know all the examples of this. Mr Crone also asked me again, first of all I would like to answer all the specific questions: whether a minimum period is allowed under the law. As a result, he still had a number of questions. The imposition of a minimum period of time for temporary contracts is not now allowed. This amendment makes this possible because of the introduction of the amendment. In the evaluation stands out... No, I have to put it another way: the evaluation can be drawn from it. Because it is not particularly noticeable; it is one of the points that comes from that evaluation. The evaluation therefore shows that landlords sometimes illegally include a minimum period. Tenants can of course get a different rental price between two temporary contracts. Those were the specific questions put by Mr Crone. Mr Pijlman asked whether the amendment introduced by the amendment meant a deterioration in the position of the tenant. The amendment envisages an extension of that temporary lease from two to three years. There are different forms: you can also go from one to three or from two to three, but in total it is three years. This gives the landlords the opportunity to include a minimum term in the contract. The evaluation is not entirely conclusive, but shows that there are negative effects, as well as an increase in the use of temporary contracts as they currently exist. The evaluation does give reason to check whether the right balance has been found between the interests of tenants, the interests of landlords and the premise that rental contracts are the norm for an indefinite period of time. We'd like to keep it that way. Mr. Chairman. Those were the specific questions. Then a little more comprehensive, in response to all the comments made on the temporary contracts. Temporary contracts were introduced at a time when the housing market looked a bit different than it is now. That was right after a deep economic crisis. The idea behind introducing that form of contract was: to achieve more flow and more availability of suitable homes. The situation on the housing market then also gave room for new instruments, because then emergency seekers, such as people who emigrated from social care or people who needed a bridge for whatever reason, could be better served. The introduction of temporary leases was based on short-term contracts with which tenants do not benefit from rent protection. That rent protection does have tenants on those temporary leases. In the corona crisis, in the spring of last year, we temporarily extended the possibilities for temporary rental, because of corona, to protect the tenants during the corona crisis and to give them more time to look for further accommodation. Partly as a result, it became apparent that temporary extension does meet a need. It provides the possibility for the landlords who are in those temporary contracts to provide customised services in specific situations. It then fits, our opinion, into a broader package of measures to increase the manoeuvrability and affordability of the housing market. That was part of the package back then. Times are different now than they were then. We have the review of the Wet flow rent market and with those insights we have to do something. It's really important to weigh those insights. Then there's the bill there right now. What was called the Koerhuis amendment in the Lower House is now part of the legislative proposal. Members have not yet been able to learn enough about the evaluation, but I hope they will take a good look at it. That evaluation is not conclusive, especially because it proved to be very complex in terms of numbers to identify what is going on. That has been very difficult. Nevertheless, you can say that there are positive effects, such as the target group contracts. These are generally assessed positively by both the landlord and the tenant. The evaluation recommends that we take a close look at this and perhaps also increase the number of target groups. There are undesirable side effects on this: faster rent increases, the problem of livingability, the inclusion of minimum duration in the contract, which is not necessarily an improvement for the tenant. So there is something to be said about this evaluation that needs to be discussed. What makes it complicated is that the bill is now before us with the amendment in it. The amendment was adopted by the House of Representatives and is therefore part of the legislative proposal. Perhaps it is right to say here that it is true that I did not recommend the amendment. Mr Kox and others have reminded us of this. I didn't recommend it because I didn't think it was the royal way to amend it in another law, because that way it didn't go through the usual route with an opinion from the Council of State. My second argument was that it made more sense for me to wait for the evaluation during the Second Chamber, because it would give more ground for answering the question whether or not this would be in line with the recommendations you could draw from that evaluation. Nevertheless, the amendment was adopted and thus a fact. It's part of the bill. Now, in this Chamber, I see widely-lived objections to this part of the bill, while at the same time I also see that the bill as such is widely in the Chamber, let us say: the remaining part of the bill is being treated very positively. I'd also like to take a look at it with you under state law and discuss it with you. Legally, there are only two options. From a constitutional point of view, you could say that the Chamber on one part is so dissatisfied that the entire bill is rejected. That's not the attitude I've tasted in this room. Another route accepted by the state is to amend the bill by means of a novelle. However, this route first of all a novelle and then the legislative proposal is delayed, because then the remaining parts would only enter into force later. I find that very undesirable. We were just talking about the buy-back protection. There are other parts that the housing market and housing corporations are waiting for. So I really want to stick to that entry into force on 1 January next. That actually raises the question that has been asked. Is there a goat path to think of? It's very difficult for me. You know, I don't like being stuck between the First and Second Chambers. A goat path is indeed the only route to do so. Well, I guess you're gonna have to say that openly and honestly. I want to do this neatly in the eyes of the First Chamber. I hope that the bill will simply be passed here so that we can achieve the objective that it can enter into force on 1 January. I am prepared, given the evaluation and the changed circumstances, to go back to the House of Representatives with a repair law in which I propose not to do this particular part now. We are, of course, also going to give effect to this evaluation. Then the House of Representatives can rule on this with the repair law. In that sense, I could walk that goat path on my own. The House of Representatives is then again called upon to have a substantive opinion on this matter. That's what I wanted to say about the temporary contracts. I have a limited number of other questions. Mrs De Boer had a question about the evaluation of the Rotterdam Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u10	Thank you to the Minister for resolving it this neatly. Of course, the support of the House of Representatives is also needed for this. It would be strange if the First Chamber could correct the work of the Second Chamber without the agreement on the other side, but it doesn't seem to be such a difficult point there anymore. We still have time until January 1st. That is not long, but this is not too complicated, especially given the growing political consensus in both houses. On the basis of the evaluation, the Minister could come forward with a repair proposal, which might also include a misunderstanding in particular situations where there seems to be a misunderstanding that temporary rental is a good solution. The problem now is that the amendment is so broad that it touches everything and thereby interferes with the policy pursued. I said in another debate that sometimes decision-making can go fast. That could be done here too, and then it could all be resolved by 1 January 2022. Does the Minister see that possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u11	Let me say two things. We widely believe that this bill offers improvements. From my point of view, it is best if the First Chamber decides to accept the bill, so that we are sure that all those other parts will come into force on 1 January and that everyone can prepare for it. This means that the whole law will enter into force on 1 January. I will then admit that I am indeed going back to the House of Representatives to propose repair legislation, which initially sees what the amendment has changed in the law. Now Mr. Kox says something sensible in my eyes. He says to me: look for a repair legislation which is an improvement in the eyes of the First Chamber, in other words: not that general extension of temporary contracts, but which might do something in there which is an improvement over the law as it is. In addition, you already look at the evaluation with a slanted eye. The only thing I would like to say is that we, as a cabinet, are decommissioned. A small repair law is a different matter than a major change of law. I believe that the evaluation calls for more, and we should not have the illusion that I should or would want to include all of that in the legislative amendment. That's really something for the next cabinet. But if it could have more support in the House of Representatives and if it was more than just taking out the amendment, I would be prepared to do so. I think it would be wise for me to enter into consultation with the House of Representatives in this way. Finally, a few questions remain. The evaluation of the Rotterdam Act will be sent to the Chambers at the end of the summer. In this respect, it is also necessary to consider the possible legislative amendment that this should lead to. I assume, also given the timing, that it is up to the next cabinet to decide and put that into effect. That's what Mrs. De Boer said. Finally, a single question about housing corporations and the landlord's tax. In short, it was suggested that GroenLinks and SP were simply abolishing that landlord's tax. In any case, I have made it clear from my responsibility that the corporations have too little structural resources to make the investments they will have to make in the future. In recent years I have been able to ensure that investment capacity has maintained, at least for short-term investments in new homes and in sustainability. For this we have used the landlord's tax as an instrument, namely the discount on the landlord's tax for new construction and sustainability. That has been used very eagerly by the corporations, for almost 3 billion. As a result, we have been able to make agreements with Aedes and VNG on 150,000 affordable rentals. That does not alter the fact that a structural solution is possible. Everything I need input is available. Both Chambers and the formation parties have this at their disposal. I think it's up to the forming parties to make a choice in the way they're going to do it. As Mr Kox knows, you can do anything. You can delete the tax, but you can also link it to appointments, or halve it. There were different ideas for this in the election programmes. In any case, I wanted to bring it to the attention of everyone who is looking into it. I think I've answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u12	Maybe we'll get back to that. I appreciate the Minister's commitment to the needs of the corporations for the next cabinet period. But, of course, it is still the present government that is talking about the forthcoming budget and the forthcoming Tax Plan. My question focused in particular on this. Is there room for that, given the changed views of different parties about this over time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u13	I understand Mrs De Boer's question. She's right. We can't predict how long the formation will last. It may well be that the outgoing cabinet will submit the budget for next year, but at the same time Mrs De Boer also knows that I cannot anticipate what will or will not be in it. I have heard her very well and, of course, from my portfolio, I have always paid attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u14	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u15	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna move on to the next place. I can be very short. I thank the Minister for the answers. I would also like to thank the Minister for the goat path he has offered. I think it's a good solution. It is true that we want the elements of this law, which we can support, to enter into force as soon as possible. I note, however, from the point of view of Mr Kox's remarks, that we too see it as an opportunity to reflect on what you might be able to do with the temporary rental in a repair law, but with the call to do so only if this does not result in a waste of time. If it means that you have to discuss this much more extensively, then our approach would be to make sure that the regulation is not put into effect first, and then think about how you're going to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u16	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I shall now give the floor to Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the crystal clear answers. I will confine myself to the Koerhuis amendment which allows for a minimum period of time. As you said, this is apparently already happening on a non-legislative basis. So people could appeal and claim damages if they do leave and do not want to continue paying. That's a question. I think it is. Also asking for that other rental price is improper use of the market power of the landlord. It is just as good to say that the word 'goat boy' suggests that we are doing something crazy. It wasn't your word, it was our class elder's. The Prime Minister may want goat paths, but for the sake of care, I would like to point out that we are doing something very normal under state law. It may happen that the Upper House has a different opinion on parts or as a whole than the Lower House. If that can't be the case, then you're gonna have to shut us down. There's been a way out. On our Chairman's site and our Registrar's site, which is the site of the First Chamber, it is very short and powerful what is a novelle. A novelle is an improvement of or supplement to a law. And then the First Chamber can choose to suspend the treatment of the main law on that part until there is a new novelle. That's the whole law. We don't. But it also says: "The First Chamber may also accept the bill to be amended, with the promise that adaptation (later) will take place by means of a novelle." That's the route we're choosing now. I think it's the most actual route we can find here. It even says: "Novelles were originally meant to repair technical defects in a bill after treatment in the Lower House. In recent years, political objections from the First Chamber have sometimes been overcome by a novelle." I therefore believe that we are fully within the existing rules of the game. That's good to emphasize. I would also like to stress that there is no unanimity in the House of Representatives in relation to a Parliament, whether unanimous or not, because this amendment did not have unanimity. There were important groups against it, for the same reasons as here about money, but it has not been discussed in detail. I also appreciate that the Minister did not recommend the amendment at the time, because it was not appropriate to the draft law and because it was not substantiated, as she said. We don't have to blame ourselves for that. If they do something that is unsubstantiated, we do not have to say that we have to accept it because it is in it. So this is more in support of our own argument. But this is also because the House of Representatives may then say: yes, that is true, we may have done that too quickly. Maybe they're not gonna say that, but they're gonna read their own election programs. And then I'd say, "Christian Union, CDA, D66." I said that on 16 March. That was a day before the election, but it has not been able to influence the outcome. I was thinking of opening the news on March 16th at night, but it didn't work out. All madness on a stick: it was clear that at that time there were hesitations in the House of Representatives. But sometimes you make a coalition deal, I don't know; I've never been there, and apparently something has happened that we regret now, including the House of Representatives. So I think we should not be too modest, but just say openly and honestly: this has happened and we are now going to do things differently and better together. I would like to thank the Minister very much for noticing that at the time. She has the full support of at least my group to deal with this properly. And then we will see if it is still technically possible to make exceptions to target groups, as she herself says, and how we can then possibly do so. Let's not think about it for two years, but let's get this done on 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Crone. I call Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. When I just said my contribution, I hadn't read the evaluation. But the statement of this Chamber was, of course, very clear and clear. Everyone who participated in the debate found the intervention that took place at the end in the House of Representatives unhappy. The VVD did not participate, but in the meantime we discussed. On that side, too, there was "understanding," if I may quote Mr. Keunen, for what is happening here. Also at the VVD they said: we would like to keep those target groups up. That is also what we would like to see. After all, at that time it was also filled out for that reason. Moreover, I think that perhaps the VVD applicant too quickly extended a corona measure and that the Court of Justice agreed to it. Anyway, there's an evaluation now. This amendment, this part of the law, I have to say to the Minister that it could have undesirable side effects. We really shouldn't want those faster rent increases. I also find the minimum period in which a tenant cannot cancel to be very unhappy. It has become unbalanced. But I also keep saying compliments for the whole law. Entry into force on 1 January is also our wish. We are grateful that the Minister has announced a repair law. I also understand the dilemmas she's faced with. This is also the subject of consultation with the House of Representatives. But with this we can help this law again and provide the housing of the people with a good, new law, with which the corporations in particular can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer by the Minister to the question I asked in the first term. I had also made a point about the ever-increasing development of flex houses, temporary homes. Perhaps the Minister could comment on whether this is a desirable development in the context of developments in housing and housing law. Finally, Mr President. There has just been talk about the goat path around the Koerhuis amendment, where the Upper House is now trying to sort of reverse an amendment adopted in the Lower House by allowing certain parts to enter into force as soon as possible and not this part. This is what GroenLinks just said. According to the PvdA, this is a very normal thing under state law. Those groups are in favour of an adjustment to take account of a commitment. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this goat path is purely state law? So far, Chairman, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u22	I was mentioned as if I would have said that it was our question and our intention to bring parts of the law into force and not to share. It was asked whether that would be the right thing to do under state law. It might be good to explain this. I ask Mr Van Hattem if he has understood otherwise. We suggest that we just pass the whole law. We understand that is what the Minister is proposing. The whole law also enters into force, provided that a repair law will be adopted in the Lower House and Upper House. The Minister has promised that she will submit a legislative proposal to that effect. That's all that's happened. There's nothing in the law of the state that's going to shut anything down. Nor is it said that any part of the law does not enter into force. I agree with Mr Van Hattem that this would not be possible under state law, because it can only be done for implementing reasons and not for political reasons. That is why, in my opinion, it is being said that it must go through the royal and state law right way. That is that there is a new legislative process through the Lower House in order to arrange it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u23	Thank you for the explanation given by Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks. It is now said that the whole law will enter into force, provided that a repair law is passed in the House of Representatives. A clause is therefore included in the further processing of this bill concerning the entry into force on the basis of what the House of Representatives is going to do. I can also imagine that there is a legislative proposal that includes a referendum among citizens as a clause on the entry into force. Of these, some in this house say that this is a constitutionally impure thing. I do not see why this bill would be different from any other bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u24	I suggest that we do not mix two debates and keep it separate for a while. It is now about this bill and about the Minister's announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u25	What exactly does Mr Van Hattem mean by a clause?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u26	The clause is that the entire bill will enter into force, provided that a repair law is passed in the House of Representatives on a particular section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u27	I think Mr Van Hattem is wrong about this. The whole law is coming into force. Period. The Minister undertakes to submit a repair law to the House of Representatives. If he makes it, the law will be changed before it enters into force. If he doesn't make it, the whole law will just come into effect. I think it's that simple. So there is no clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u28	Then the clause that this Chamber actually imposes on the Minister is that the whole law will enter into force, provided that a repair law is filed in the Lower House. That's the message that's being given. It's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u29	It is as it is; sometimes it goes well, but usually it goes wrong. That's a nice song, but that's not what we're talking about here. Mr Van Hattem should also know that our parliamentary system is based on good cooperation between the two chambers and between the government and the Chambers. The government may, having heard this Chamber, and given the decision-making in the House of Representatives, say: "What you say seems reasonable to me. I'll tell you what, I'm gonna work on a repair law." The law will simply come into force. If the repair law does its job, it's all solved through the royal road. So that is not: we agree, if necessary. No, we agree on the basis of the confidence this Chamber gives the Minister that the agreement we make here will be kept. That's actually a very sophisticated way of democracy. Mr. Van Hattem, surely you should appeal to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u30	I fully agree with Mr Kox on this. This is true. It is indeed pure. But then it is equally pure if this Chamber also makes an appointment with the Minister, whether or not by means of a motion, that a referendum is held at local level, for example, and that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u31	No, Mr. Van Hattem, we're not going to have two debates. It'll come back later in the evening. By the way, I have the impression that you're getting very close. Probably so close, we can finish this now. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u32	Yes, we can conclude with the conclusion that the last point I mentioned is equally pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u33	It would be very nice if Mr Van Hattem, having said this, with the rest of the Chamber, felt that the Minister's commitment on this point was correct and that the royal road was being followed. We can all vote in favour of this bill. Mr. Van Hattem, there's no shame in us agreeing once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u34	Apart from the content of the proposal, it is indeed the royal road. The vote is next week. We will see how we are going to discuss this with our group and how we are going to assess it. Indeed, it is neatly arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I now give the floor to Mr Talsma on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the first-term response. As far as my group is concerned, that reaction should certainly be given the status of "beautiful', particularly as regards the commitment of that repair law. That makes it possible, quite frankly, to support my group's legislative proposal. Then we can say a lot about paths and routes, but if even colleague Van Hattem is willing to consider this as the royal road, then I keep the alternative of a neat Hague route in my pocket. Mr Kox made a justified remark about broadening demand and looking at the evaluation. The Minister has been reacting to that for a while. I sum up the Minister's response as follows: if we are all going to take this into account, which in itself is justified, it may take more time. That leads my group to say: it is our preference to go now for what I believe the Minister referred to as 'the bare repair'. At least that's how I'd like to see it. That would be my preference, because then we can move on quickly. I hope that after that we can talk again about all the other effects that the evaluation gives us. I look forward to that debate already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u38	Mr. Chairman. I am so glad that we can have this debate in this way. A year ago, we spoke in a different way. All in all, I think it helped. It's good to finish this up like this. I also think that the First Chamber in this way shows the respect that we have to show in relation to the Second Chamber. The decisions of the House of Representatives are leading for us. That can not fire us, neither the Minister nor the House of Representatives, to see what possibilities there are if something else can be arranged better. Repair legislation is indeed the normal way forward, I repeat, Mr Crone. I used the word "goat pad," because this is described as a simple and effective way to get from A to B. This is in contrast to the elephant path, which has long and wide entered. But, yes, every word, every concept touched by our Prime Minister becomes a little risky in use. So I agree with Mr Crone. This is the normal way this Chamber can walk. I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment. I have one final comment. Yes, Madam Minister, the budget is compiled by a outgoing cabinet, but it doesn't say that a outgoing cabinet shouldn't take account of the changed circumstances. If there is almost no more support for continuing the landlord's tax in this way, then this Chamber, or the other Chamber, will not do you any good if you put a somewhat daring proposal in your budget, in case you were allowed to refer it to this Chamber. My group will certainly have no problem with it if you say: you know what, delete the landlord's tax, at least in this way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Mr Rietkerk would like to speak. Mr. Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given. The CDA Group remains, considering everything, before the bill. In the first period, I asked for a state-law solution to extend temporary contracts. We agree that it is undesirable to do so through a novelle. It is desirable, however, to do so by means of a repair law. Then we'll do it in a royal way. We see the repair law as a commitment. Indeed, it is neat when it goes through the Lower House. As I said in my first term, this also means that it is happening within the constitutional position of the House of Representatives. He can vote for it, but he can't vote against it. So, in response to Mr Van Hattem, I say that we think differently. Finally, the positive effects of the repair law, the target group contracts, may also be taken into account. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for their second term. Most of the comments made in the second period were about the temporary contracts and the solution we seem to have found. I agree with Mr Crone that we are not doing something that cannot stand the light of day. On the contrary, it is just possible for state law to do so. I would like to summarize it as follows. I think we're actually on the same page. This debate, in this House, raised concerns about the extension of temporary leases. Those objections have been expressed and we can count, so that is clear. On the other hand, it is clear that the Lower House has adopted an amendment as co-legislator. I have said that myself, but I have heard it very clearly from the spokesmen. In other words, the House of Representatives has made it clear that that amendment is now part of the legislative proposal. For that we sought a solution together, where I noticed that the First Chamber found rejecting the bill a somewhat undesirable route. From a novelle I also said that it was actually an undesirable route, because the rest of it will remain and we cannot be sure of the date of introduction. So we have been looking for a decent way of doing it. I think Mr Kox called it a goat path, on which we are sure that the now new House of Representatives, and then this Chamber, too, will have the opportunity to speak on it. I call that "repair legislation." Mr Crone said that, according to a certain explanation, this is also a form of a novelle. I'll take that from him right away. However, I feel most comfortable with the word'repair legislation', which I will, for my part, ensure will happen as soon as possible. There is a great deal for me to do before 1 January. That would be by far the best, because then everything can come into effect at once. I also agree with Mrs De Boer's explanation. No one has talked about differentiated entry into force. We're just talking about adopting the law, putting the whole law into effect on 1 January, which hopefully has been adapted to that part before that time with the repair law. Then there are the questions and comments from Mr Rietkerk, among others: 'If you come up with this repair legislation, could you perhaps do a little better than just amend the Koerhuis amendment out of it? Maybe you can still do something with those target groups, for example. We now have that evaluation." I have just said that I do not have the illusion that I can translate everything contained in that evaluation into a legislative amendment in a sensible way, because perhaps that will require a lot more. But if that could be done on parts, I can imagine that I can meet wishes that have been expressed here, but that also live in the House of Representatives. This also helps the House of Representatives to have the debate on the repair law in a pleasant way. That's how I'd like to look at it. I hope that those in this Chamber who have asked for it will recognize themselves. By the way, Mr Pijlman also mentioned that point. I think I have been able to include all the comments that have been made on this point. Then I have two other points. Firstly, Mr Van Hattem's question on flex houses. Indeed, he had already set that in the first term, so I apologize for that. That really has to do with housing. So it has nothing to do with the contracts. The idea behind more temporary housing, more flex homes is that you can also use spaces that otherwise cannot be used for housing, for example because of a zoning change that is still somewhere in the future. Then for a period of five, ten, fifteen years, you can say: we can set up houses here. That's one side: use space that you can't otherwise use in a time of tightness. If we continue to build enough every year, it will be over at some point. Then you can say: that's good, because that was just what we had in mind with that particular piece of land; we're going to do something different with that now. Second of all, you can build faster. Nowadays, it's really high quality. It's really very impressive. In temporary homes, we may have those old containers we once housed students in, but they haven't been for a long time. Those temporary homes are really beautiful, high quality and often also sustainable homes, to be reused et cetera. That's the thought behind this. Finally, the missionary nature, as Mr Kox pointed out. Yeah, what's a missionary anyway? From a constitutional point of view, the cabinet is simply supposed to do what is necessary. I would like to say this back to Mr Kox. However, it is intended that there will be a new cabinet, and that there will also be considerations to be made there. That way we will look at it and try to come up with sensible proposals. If we're still there, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u43	It is not directly related to temporary contracts, but it is the same factor of temporary security. People who want a future home may only have five years of security. This type of project often includes 15 years of construction. Isn't it much better and more efficient to go directly for quick zoning changes, so that there can be permanent homes right away and people have long-term security, not only in terms of contracts, but also in terms of housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u44	It's not instead. It's over. It's extra. It is a way to help faster people who otherwise do not have a suitable home, who, for example, still live at home with their parents or are in a different situation. You give people the opportunity to find a suitable home much faster. Often that's a flow-through site. Nor is it meant to keep people there for a very long time. If it is for 10 or 15 years, then that does not mean that those people have to live there for 10 or 15 years. Often they are people who from that situation can look further at an even better accommodation with them. Again, it's extra and it's a way to realize more homes faster in times of tightness. That's why I find it really attractive. There are many municipalities that are now working on this and there are also many providers, but of course it is far from the size of ordinary housing. As far as I'm concerned, I'd even like to add a tooth to those temporary homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u45	I think that's kind of the problem. The Minister talks about suitable housing. But, yeah, they're temporary homes. These are ultimately emergency solutions, so it's a question of whether this is appropriate. In addition, there are often objections from local residents, who do have a normal, permanent home and still get a residential complex in their front yard for fifteen years. So it's not better, given the very tight space we have in terms of residential location, just to bet on quick zoning changes. Surely that should also be an objective, given the Environmental Law, and the environmental visions that need to be drawn up today? Can we not do this better, rather than achieve everything on such a temporary basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u46	I look forward to a debate in this Chamber on spatial planning, construction and so on. This has nothing to do with this House Act. But I really do not agree with Mr Van Hattem. I think that municipalities really handle that very carefully. On the contrary, they are looking for ways to achieve more housing more quickly in their municipality, even in places that are not ultimately intended for housing, on land where they want to do other things in the long run. And of course it all has to be neatly discussed, and the neighborhood should be able to think along and talk along. But it really provides for a need of many people, of all kinds of groups in our society, who otherwise cannot find a home. They can be helped in this way. I really don't know why I should get in the way of that. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u47	Besides, I think this is out of order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-11.u48	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That is not the case.
