ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35555, Amendment of the Pension Act, the Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme Act, the Financial Supervision Act, the Income Tax Act 2001 and the Wage Tax Act 1964, in connection with the introduction of the possibility of the purchase of part of the value of the claims on old age pensions or on periodic benefits from old age benefits in the third pillar at the date of their entry into force, the temporary relaxation of the pseudo-final levy in early retirement schemes and the extension of the tax area for the saving of upper statutory leave, short of the Law amount of lump sum, RVU and leave savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A year and a half ago, the government concluded an agreement with the social partners on a fundamental reform of the pension system. This must then be developed in all kinds of legislation and regulations over the years. The legislative proposal before us today concerns the elaboration of one of the components, albeit one of the smaller parts, which form part of this massive reform of the system. You said it in the credits: that bill brings together three things. Two of the points of the law that we are discussing here today have a connection. They are about how you can stop working a bit sooner if you need it or if you have a hard job etc. This is what the early retirement scheme has been for and the possibility of saving leave has also been extended. Those two things make it possible for people who, towards the end of their working lives, also touch a little bit at the end of their powers, to quit a little earlier. You will not be surprised that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is particularly pleased with this. I have two more questions about that. That early retirement scheme is a temporary scheme for four years, if I say it right. That is good, but in the meantime, of course, we need to make meters in order to arrive at a more definitive arrangement. Are those meters made, too? How's that going? At what point do you think you can tell us more about that? I'm not asking those questions because I think it's fantastic that sooner than 67 or 66 and ten months or 67,5 or whatever it is you're gonna be, you're gonna stop working. Of course, it would be much better if our labour market were to be so that everyone could whistling towards retirement. That is a review that we would also like to talk to you or possibly your successors, but I also realise that it is far from being done for the time being. As long as it is not there, it is very good that there are good, sound arrangements to prevent people from burning down. That's the bottom line. That's not luxury, it's necessity. So my first question is: what is the situation with regard to the structural regulation? A second question I have concerns the implementation of this early retirement scheme. There's a lot of fuss about that. Pension funds say 'let's do that; that's the easiest thing to do', but you say that we can't do that, because it's a side business and it's not pension-related. Then you get a little bit of that lawyer stuff, I'm just saying simple. The very strict lawyer says: this really cannot be done, and if we say yes now, we will have to say yes to all kinds of things later. And the other lawyer says don't be stupid, because it's much more practical to do so. I would like to hear some reflection from you on this in the first place, because we feel that it would be a lot easier to implement if pension funds were allowed to do so. Okay, the two parts. As has been said, there is also a third part of that law, the so-called sum at once, a possibility to raise 10% of your pension per pension date and have it paid in one go. That proposal does not really have an intrinsic link with the other two. It's all about pensions, of course, and it's all about customization. But I didn't get any further, either, frankly, in the answer given by the Minister. This is relevant, because it links two parts in one law that have nothing to do with each other. Two parts of it are not controversial, and the third raises all kinds of questions. That's a complicated situation. That is what we are witnessing in small quantities, and that is what we are witnessing in other laws, of course. The First Chamber has adopted one motion and again, recently at the discussion of the Tax Plan, which urges the government to change us from it. Don't do that. Bring matters that are causally linked together into one law and don't put matters that are not causally linked together into one law, so that the Chamber can properly perform its controlling task and its task as co-legislator. The Minister has not done so, and it may well be that not so much the First Chamber, but he himself is now reaping the acidic fruits of it. Let me zoom in on that amount all of a sudden. There's a lot to say about that. I've already outlined what it's about. When you retire, you can say, "Oh, man, turn out 10% of the cash in one go, 'cause then I can do something nice about that." The example that is always given is: buying a caravan. Well, that's nice: freedom, happiness. It's a bit of that happy liberal thinking that's nothing against as long as there's nothing against it. But let there be something against it; there is even a lot against it. Then it gets harder. Because if it's all nice and beautiful for everyone, then you don't hear us whining, but taking an amount at once can have all kinds of consequences, especially for the people at the bottom of the income building, for people who have bonuses. Well, we've talked more than enough about the word "extra charge" over the past few months. The supplement can be cancelled without being very good at it, because the income is getting too high or because the capacity is getting too high. They may be entitled to it again the next year, and then they have to pay it back. All of this requires at least a lot of communication and it also causes a lot of hassle. And you just see through your eye hairs that there, too, if you don't look out, you're gonna fall apart. And where do they fall? They fall on the side of the people who have the least to choose and to miss. Our question is why the Minister thinks it is so necessary to introduce this sum suddenly, if he knows that these effects are included. In short, I am asking for the balance in the law. How did the Minister measure the importance of "freedom, happiness".I say to him, "the importance of freedom of choice in relation to the importance of the position of people with lower incomes, who could be inadvertently harmed by this?" That's one point about that amount all of a sudden. With a second point of criticism, we are already at the core business of the Upper House. That point concerns the feasibility of that law. At the very last moment in the parliamentary debate in the House of Representatives, a letter of amendment was made to meet a well-meant wish of a number of parties in the Chamber. In particular, the CDA, the VVD and D66 have been committed to this. They said: "Joh, if you can only withdraw that amount suddenly on your retirement date, you might find it a bit difficult with your AOW. That has to do with the AOW and the AOW premiums." They have therefore said: "Make it possible for people to record this in a year or a while, for example, so that they do not unintentionally suffer." That sounds nice, so the minister thought: we're going to do that. The Chamber was happy; the House of Representatives voted unanimously. The House of Representatives was unanimously happy, and the pension executives were unanimously "not amused." In fact, the pension practitioners said, "We really can't do this." So you have a situation where the House of Representatives says "we want to" and that the performers say "we can't." Then you'll join the First Chamber. And you can argue for a long time about what that First Chamber is for, but if it's for something, then it's for judgment on the feasibility of laws. I think there is a lot to say for a two-chamber system and I think we all agree that judging on the feasibility of laws is an important task for the Chamber. We cannot simply say 'yes' to a law about which all the people who have to implement it say: we cannot do so. And then you're stuck with the fried pears of those three parts in one. Two things we want to have implemented retroactively, preferably today, by next week at the latest. But there are a number of things that we're not really going to say yes to. That's the stalemate we're in. So the best thing would have been if those proposals had been cut. You could've come up with a novelle. But none of that happened. Something must be done if the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is to be able to say yes. At least what we think should happen is that the entry into force of the amount component is suddenly postponed. That would be 1 January 2022, but only postpone it for at least a year until 1 January 2023. There must be a new consultation with the implementation partners, after which you will come forward with a proposal that will be supported by the implementation partners, and you will take a very close look at the balanced side effects that are in it, after which you will come to us with a new proposal. That's, I'm just saying, how we look at it. I have the impression, also from previous consultations, that other parties will also pay attention to this. Depending on the input of other parties and your response in the first period, we will continue to do so in the second period. This whole debate will determine our final position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour. Mrs Moonen for a question to Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mr Van Gurp. You were very clear about coherence. The three measures that are in place today are all around the retirement date. That's a connection. Another coherence is that they are all three on a voluntary basis: you do not have to use them, you add three options at the same time. These are, after all, forms of cohesion. That is how our group sees it. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u6	That there is coherence in the sense that it all has to do with retirement, you are right. That's crystal clear. Otherwise, of course, it would have been very furious. Furthermore, you say that it is a cohesion that it is not mandatory. You are right to do so, but I do think that this is an extremely thin justification for putting subjects which are not related to substance into one law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr Van Gurp is not responding to what I just said: the real coherence is, of course, that they all play around the retirement date. That's different from when they're all about retirement. That's a time when people often think about how they want to decorate their lives and where they're going to spend their money. That also falls at the same time in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u8	I suppose thinking about the retirement date, especially if you want to start saving leave, happens a lot earlier. So I'm going to keep finding that we can disagree on that, there's nothing wrong with it that those two parts that really have to do with the question of how people can get out sooner are related. But the question of whether a piece is equally recorded or distributed over the years is really of a different order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u9	Thank you. I call Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to have another retirement debate. I will not say how long I have prepared myself this time, but enough to go a little deeper than I have seen in the Minister's documents on a number of aspects that I do not see in the documents, namely the important point, also mentioned by GroenLinks, of this one-off benefit. It is an important part of the pension agreement, relatively small, but certainly the RVU is an important aspect, because certainly the trade unions, the Labour Party, GroenLinks, the SP, but also others have been pushing for years to speed up the exit of people who are in a heavy occupation. I'll come back to that later. Spare leave, that's really a little thing. You may take your leave before you retire 50 weeks to 100 weeks fiscally facilitated, but I would ask the Minister: how many more people can actually save 100 weeks? That's a lot of vacation days. You have to keep it compared to the mandatory recording you have every year, or you have to buy them out, but then you are already in the higher income category. So you can't be against it, but on the other hand this is something that will be used mainly by higher incomes. I would ask the Minister to endorse that. Maybe it's a good redundancy scheme for the people in the top of an enterprise who have to get out, but I'm making that up in front of me. Then you buy some extra leave days and then they can get out. Then maybe it's some kind of private RVU. The scheme's early retirement. Of course, it has never been possible to find uniform national definitions for "heavy professions" and so on. Therefore, a sectoral approach has been adopted. This is supported by a further package of 1 billion ECU, which I also think is important to try to keep people working longer with elements. The best thing, of course, is that people work long, healthy and safe, instead of being unable to work because of wear or otherwise and have to leave early. The scheme is also temporary, because we are still looking for a better structural arrangement. So I would like to ask the Minister: what about the 45-year investigation? And how does this scheme work in practice so far? It's a sector approach, and there's nothing wrong with that. The VAR and other arrangements were, too. A number of sectors have started. Last week, to my great joy on the radio, I also heard the trade union movement arguing that everything was going well and that fortunately it could be introduced smoothly with retroactive effect. That was a fine statement from the trade union movement. He totally supports it. I'm just looking back at the SP. Of course, these pre-retirement schemes are fine, but I am curious: what is the Minister still doing to promote them in other sectors and how are things going there? There are, of course, many more sectors where this kind of thing is needed than the ones I have heard so far, namely the police, care and construction. Mr. Chairman. There is still a problem with implementation. 'Cause who's gonna do this now? We will then find ourselves back in that grey area between the market and questions about market organization. The minister says that the pension administrators should simply do that, but not the pension funds themselves. That makes sense. The ABP will never do it by itself, but that's what APG does. But, of course, there are also funds that do not have that in their grasp. Do they have to throw it on the market? Do they have to sign it? Are there any parties, private or otherwise, saying, "Oh, we do want to do that?" 'Cause it doesn't seem like something you make a lot of money off. Is that really necessary? And can it not also be seen as a kind of core task, or at least an allowed secondary activity of pension funds? This is also the case with the VRS and pre-pension schemes. People will often refer to this as a pre-retirement: "I am entitled to pre-retirement, because I have a heavy occupation." In substance, therefore, it is very close to things that pension funds were always allowed to do. So I would really like to ask the Minister: do not be flexible in this, but simply apply the law in the sense that it is meant to be a kind of early retirement. As far as I'm concerned, it's a related side function. I wouldn't know why that has to be banned. In this way, we might force the sectors that should do so themselves to set up foundations, which also entail costs. How stable is a foundation? Who is going to guarantee financial continuity for that? Of course, a pension fund is not allowed to do that. I'm not gonna ask too many questions, but it's the easiest thing to do where it's almost no problem? Most pension funds, of course, already have an implementation organisation. Where that can't be done, you can just say, "Do it the way you want it best. You can put it on the market, but you can do it yourself." I would like to ask for some flexibility from the Minister on this point. This is the celebration of freedom of choice, a liberal principle. I see the Minister laughing nicely. I almost see that as a commitment. I'll see what he answers in the first term. He always likes to laugh. So if you provoke a laugh, you get a promise right away. But now I'm going to get a little more serious about the right of choice, because that right of choice, that one-off benefit, is more than a bone in the throat for us. In line with what I have heard from my colleague Van Gurp, I would also like to comment on that. It seems like such a nice proposal: you can bring 10% of your pension fund forward. Then your pension gets a little lower for life, but you can pay off your mortgage, take a holiday trip or buy a caravan. I am not making that up; these are the words that the spokesmen of D66 and the VVD were the first to bring into the House of Representatives. They said that it should actually be 20%. So we'll open a new door here. We always know that your doors that open don't always close. I would therefore like to ask whether this feeling of swiss life is going to be the tone of responsible information for everyone, including those who have much lower incomes. Do they actually get some kind of information in the sense of: take it up nicely; then you can do nice things and the rest doesn't matter? I assume the Minister will contradict this; at least I hope so, because there is, of course, much more going on. The median for supplementary pensions is around €9,000. For some funds, this is even much lower and for some funds a little higher. Then you get a net benefit of only €10,000. That's not a big deal. I've never bought a caravan in my life, but I think even a second-hand Kipcaravan is more expensive. But your pension's going down. So you can no longer pay the fee on the campsite. Of course it is. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to make it too funny, because I think this is a rather serious situation, because there are risks, just within this pension exchange, but also within the system as a whole. We don't have a pension scheme of our own. We have a system of collective insurance. It's not a savings system. So it's true that you're saving up with all of them, but you're not getting anything if you happen to die soon. Of course, the others will get more, because that affects the level of cover, which will therefore become manageable in the premiums. One day after the fall in your pension, you can die and then you can't get anything, but you already have it in this system. So you're undermining the insurance character, but you're also running out of the pot. I would therefore urge the Minister to reflect more on this matter in principle, because the liberal 'freedom, happiness' principle is too much here. This is, of course, something that is then paid in the pension by the others, who remain seated. The Minister replied in the documents that this is also the case with the high-low pension, but that is much less in the measure. Then you get a little more at the beginning and a little less later. If you die, you get nothing, and you didn't get it in advance. That's another principle, a slightly different tradeoff. Of course, principles are always negotiable, when it comes to pennies, but I suddenly find that benefit a very different type than high-low. The minister shakes no, but in the pieces the comparison is really made that high-low is the same principle as the pension pot of 10%. This brings me to the sustainability of the system. If everyone did this, the retirement pots would be emptying fast. Then everyone takes up 10% at the beginning and you can't make a return on that. The Minister estimates that this is only 10% of the people involved. But I read that high-low health and well-being is already done by 35% of people. Where does he get that it's only 10%? That is a crazy argument, because 10% is also a lot, when it comes to the volume of the pot, and when it becomes more, it becomes even more. What is the Minister's answer to my question as to whether the collective pot does not drain very quickly if, for example, 35% or 60% of the people join? A second risk is that there is risk selection in it. Anyone who knows that he will not live for long will, and unfortunately, a number of people who know will definitely receive a benefit. I've asked the Minister about the turning point that's in it. You get a higher benefit all of a sudden, but from day one, your pension amount goes down. You can calculate exactly what I had done well, because he confirms that you have emptied the pot after seventeen years. If you live longer, you shouldn't have done it, because then your lifelong pension is lower. Those sums confirm that turning point of 17 years. A lot of people will think: how many chances do I have? I hear people saying: yes, my father turned 90, so I shouldn't, because maybe I will. There is therefore a risk selection of people who know that they are sick and also in a different way. And what is even more fundamental, precisely in our system, is that some people will say: 20-25 years, who lives then, who cares, is inside, I fasten it. There's a psychological effect in that. We all know, as the Nobel Prize winner Kahneman has shown, that people do not have a long-term horizon but a short one. Psychologically, people always think, "If I have it now, it's okay." The system is also set up, with a lot of fatalist protection, to prevent this, and we are running out of it here. It can also be very rational and financially wise, if you estimate that you no longer get an index, to raise the money now instead of waiting for a pension without indexing. Anyway, let me be a little sunshine too: women get more. Is that true, Minister? Women have a higher life expectancy, so for them there is more actuarially in the pot and 10% of more is more. A 67-year-old woman gets more than her husband, if she's the same age, on the same pension. Then we finally have something that benefits women. I think this is right, actuarially, but it's a question. As you know, the Minister and I like to make a few notes to see what's going on. Mr. Chairman. I have raised two very serious concerns. This concerns the risk selection that undermines the solidarity and insurance character, but also the unconscious or perhaps consciously incompetent assessment of your future. The Minister is always used to saying: there is no free money. If one gets it, where does it come from? I would like to have a serious answer to that, because this is annoying. In the distribution of those who are going to do it, it seems clear to me that people with lower incomes should not do it. There is already reverse solidarity in our pension system. We all know that people on low incomes live less long lives than those on high incomes, which are therefore relatively more useful from pensions. The supplementary pension system is thus already a form of reverse solidarity. This is partly corrected by the AOW, because it is the other way around. But this strengthens the reverse solidarity of pension funds. Surely the Minister wouldn't like that? The turning point will be more difficult for many people, especially with lower incomes, to reach, so they won't have to do it. However, the Minister's intuitions have so convinced him that this is a good proposal that he says very little about these kinds of questions in the documents. I'm sorry to hear that. I've asked for part of it. There's not much talk about it in the Lower House either. Let's see it as the liberal dogma of D66 and VVD: freedom of choice is fine. I think it's gonna be a lot of choice stress here, but it's not nice either. Then the Minister says: yes, but people want it so badly, because in the CPB studies people say so. I quote literally what the Minister says: 'The majority wants a one-off retirement allowance'. So that's a lot more than 10%. It's in the answer we got last week. More than 10%... More than half says: I want a one-time benefit. I'd like to know under what conditions people were asked to do that. Then he says: but this study did not investigate the expected choices of people in different positions. But this is about people in different positions. So what kind of truth is the Minister building his estimate that it's 10%? In his own pieces, that is not clear. I would ask you to clarify this. This is also a reason for me to say: let us suspend this issue. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another important uncertainty that we have about entering the new system. So it's part of the new system; then you only know if your pension fund will be used, with a discount, with any indexation. So if you have to choose a year earlier or next year, then your pension fund can only say: yes, we think that now, but of course we don't know how you entered it yet. So that gives us long-term uncertainty, because it is precisely when determining the pension fund, of your personal pot, that you must of course know on what term and expected return your pension fund will be going into in the near future. And that could really lead to a discount. But I see the minister, and he's gonna explain it to me. But that means that, if you have to make a choice before the new pension system arrives, you will make a choice with inadequate knowledge and insufficient knowledge about the value of your own pension. And then you'll have the benefit, but then your pension will be even lower than expected. And if the pension fund has said so, is the pension fund ultimately liable if it turns out that you have been promised too much? 'Cause you're gonna lose that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u11	Mr Crone, the water has arrived. To your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u12	Great, very good, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let us zoom in a little bit on individual citizens, because these are still a bit of the macro-reasons and system reasonings. Individual citizens have to make choices; and that is once in a lifetime, because that is only allowed once. That is why Mr Sent and I are constantly talking about this power test. We have also adopted a motion for a resolution on this. The minister embraced it in one piece. But I'm curious, because with all these uncertainties, I think you're gonna get some choice stress. When can people just trust that this is gonna work? And here too, of course, the pension fund cannot do it. That may give advice on its part, but rightly so; of course it is also about the care allowance and other supplements, so we really need an independent advice. The AFM has to test it, so I'm reading it somewhere in the pieces "Can be an advice of €1,000." I think that makes sense, because maybe there's a liability on it, and the AFM will check it out. Anyway, let it be $500. If you get €3,000 net at the bottom, and that's already a lot, then you've lost a lot of advice costs. Does it not make sense here that the pension fund can play a greater role? And how are you going to solve this, because that will become prohibitive for the lower pensions. And, as I said, most people have low pensions, because they do not exceed €8,000 in pensions. Well, it's hard to ask for income-dependent care costs or advice costs to be charged, but I think this is a problem. So: how is the minister going to take up this advisory role, how is that going to work? Another aspect of implementation is, of course, what the funds themselves have to do, and the whole insurance world. This has just been explained in detail by Mr Van Gurp. We too are surprised by the intense, but understandable, tone in which they say: we really cannot achieve this in a year. And the Minister says: yes, but I'm sure you're just getting ahead of the new system, because then you have to do it again. But some say: no, that may look very different, so now you have implementation costs and again with the new system. By the way, this novelle has made things even worse in terms of complexity. Isn't it more convenient to devote more time to the execution, at least? It's our core business, as Van Gurp said just now, but I do think that making models is going to take more than a year. Mr. Chairman. Let's zoom in on a micro-level. I told you, most people have a pension of less than €10,000. For some funds, the median is even €6,000 to €7,000, or even lower, but let's say €10,000 for convenience. And what do the sums I've asked the Minister to say? Well, then you're structurally falling back into your pension from day 1 but €300. But that's not true; you're going to decline €700, but because you have a low income, you'll get a higher care allowance and rent allowance. So the pension shift is expensive, which costs you €700 but you must then remain dependent on the care and rent allowances. But let's just decide, even in your own election program, that those fees will go away. We probably can't tell the citizens what's left of it in two or three years. Everyone will say "it's gonna be okay," but would you say that if you had to give someone advice next year? So I would also like clarification from the Minister on this. Would he dare to advise someone: do it and you will still be on the care and rent allowance because it will be okay? Or would he not build in a big disclaimer and say: that care allowance can change, because there are elections and there will be a new system? I see now that I'm being kindly laughed at by the Minister again, so that's going well. I will not say this too often, Mr President, because then the Acts will get a different role and we will do videos. But in all seriousness now: if you have to give advice to someone in a year's time, you don't know a lot of things by definition, the boarding, the surcharges, the tax situation and so on. We'll go back to some kind of premium bureaucracy. That will of course be a drama for the first year because if you get too much, you will get less fees and then you have to pay it back. I think it's a rather complicated arrangement. Is it not better, at least, to review this part of the linked aspects of the law, the three elements, on the implementation technique, which in itself is a reason to postpone it now and to use that time to take a closer look at what we are doing here, both at the individual micro level and at the question of the macro-impacts on the system and the surcharges? We're talking about fees right now, but they're going up. The tax administration needs to pay more fees, because people can't get it out of the pension system anymore. It's all very well calculated in part that the macro doesn't cost anything, but I'm not entirely convinced and certainly not if much more than 10% of the people are going to participate. I would therefore prefer to suspend this part of the royal decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u13	You're almost done, Mr. Crone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u15	If you'll just finish, I'll give Mrs Moonen the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u16	That was my conclusion, too. Communication and advice practice is not yet available. There are many uncertainties around the whole. There can never be good communication and good advice to the citizen if the underlying facts are not clear. So that's gonna be an advice with 27 disclaimers, and I don't think that's gonna help the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u17	That was your conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u19	I listened with great interest to Mr Crone's speech. My question to him is whether he himself is not making things unnecessarily complicated. As far as entry is concerned, the Ministry of SZW makes it very clear that even with a sum, a very pure calculation can be made that is completely separate from the problem of collision. So I think that we are now adding something which makes it unnecessarily complicated in Mr Crone's words, which the Minister does not think is playing at all. Could Mr Crone respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u20	I hope the Minister can reassure me, but we all know that when it comes to boarding a number of pension funds may have to say to a part of their population: we have to cut or we predict that we will not index you for five years. You won't know that for sure until you get in. By the way, we are going to deal with these laws, so I do not have that certainty now, but I do want to have an answer to them now, otherwise it will create new uncertainty. You choose not for the next three years, but especially for the period after 2026.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u21	We await the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u22	Thank you, Mr Crone. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. While the speaker chair is being cleaned, I ask the Members not to touch the microphones at the speaker chair, because they are completely set up. That is true of the two speakers who have just spoken, but of course it is true of all the following speakers and even of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. The bill is part of the pension agreement. Before going into this legislative proposal, I would like to refer to the letter from the Minister of 16 December to the House of Representatives on the exemption regime, the transition to 2026 and the transition to the new system. In particular, the transition financial review framework already casts its shadow because it has an impact on 2022. The Minister mentions the three elements I just mentioned as a "coherent part" of that pension agreement. Two days earlier, on 14 December, the Minister replied to a number of questions from the 50PLUS Group, which were taken over by the CDA Group. Minister Koolmees has indicated that he wants to use the rules of the new pension contract for the bridging period, the so-called growth path, to the moment of transition, which must be gradual. I quote the Minister: 'Easily the funds do not succeed in realising the promised pensions in the current system with a high degree of security'. Here the Minister uses the term "high degree of security." In the past it has always been "guarantees," "unconditional commitments," "a result obligation," as the President of De Nederlandsche Bank says. I see a nuance in the term 'high degree of certainty', not insignificant. The whole financial review framework has been built on the false assumption that there would be a guarantee. I call that the myth of the guarantee. Therefore, risk-free interest rates were used as discount rates and therefore large buffers were needed. If that guarantee is no longer available, why should these strict standards be maintained, while IORP I and II consider a prudent expected rate of return or discount sufficient for the greatest possible certainty? I'd like an answer. In the same letter, the Minister maintains the principles of the financial review framework when it comes to the distribution of assets. Many do not agree, because then the occasional interest rate of the moment will determine that distribution. 80-plussers have their pension assets I am almost ready to build up in years with high returns and in the new system those returns should be available for them to build up that personal pension assets. The distribution of the assets that have been built up in the past, in 40 years, must suddenly be subject to different standards. For example, young people start with a relatively large pot, which they owe to the investment and return of the elderly. That cannot be the intention! Pensioners then have the bad luck of having to sail at a time when interest rates are dominated by the interventions of the ECB in particular. An exceptional time with exceptionally low interest rates, while the returns actually realised were and are much higher. That's unfair, and you can't explain that, can you? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. The letter of 16 December to the House of Representatives mentions three interrelated parts in the years until the transition to the new system was completed in 2026. The exemption scheme 2021, the transition ftk between 2022 and 2026 and the third transition to the new system. All elderly organisations were angry about this letter, because this letter was not the subject of the promised consultation. Is that right? And if so, why didn't that happen? As an argument for the exemption scheme, the outbreak of the coronavirus is mentioned. The special feature is that the rapid development of the vaccine against corona is the reason why the exemption scheme was not necessary for two large funds, the General Civil Pension Fund and the Pension Fund for Care and Welfare, which were in the danger zone in the autumn. They were saved by the gong of the vaccine and therefore from the stock exchanges. It's possible. For years, the 50PLUS Group in the Second and First Chambers have warned of this danger. That is why, at the time, the Van Rooijen initiative bill was tabled for the temporary 2% discount rate in order to avoid discounts. It was voted away in the Lower House. Now the 50PLUS Group in the Lower House has once again sent an initiative proposal for an opinion to the Council of State on 2% interest during the transition. The main note of the Pension Agreement of 22 June 2019 indicated that the jurisdiction of Article 142 of the Pension Act would be exercised. Trade unions demanded that no cuts should be made as part of the negotiations. The Minister refers to "large reductions in pensions which he does not consider desirable." These reductions are less the result of the corona epidemic than of the ever-increasing rate of calculation. The Minister knows that, doesn't he? At the end of last year, the fairs were at world record level. Discounts would not be necessary for an accounting rate of up to 1%. Coverage increases by an average of 15%. Does the Minister agree with me that a reduction in the minimum coverage rate of 104%, as has already been done twice, to 90% is equivalent to an increase in the calculation rate of 1%? Why is it that the Minister does not turn the button of the interest rate, but rather the button of the level of cover, which is mainly determined by the interest rate? I'd like an answer. This falling interest rate was also the reason why the agreement on the elaboration of the pension agreement in July 2020 had to abolish the interest rate at all costs. That interest rate was still part of the pension agreement of June 2019. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank was there as the chickens to make it clear that the buffers could disappear, but that the risk-free interest rate was the only correct calculation rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u24	Mr. Van Rooijen, will you join the bill yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u25	Sure, don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u26	Because if we ask the Minister to give a broad answer on pension policy, I think we should have a separate debate on this. I'd like to leave it to you and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u27	Yes, Mr President, but the whole speech and the letter of 16 December are about the reductions that are due to take place next year. That's what I'm talking about. After all, if you increase the rate of calculation now, the whole problem is gone. We are not only dealing with the problem of the future, but also with today's problems. Mr President, I am sorry that I cannot keep my own story. I have to go back now. That's always the downside of something like that. I hope it doesn't go away from my time. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank was there as the chickens to make it clear that the buffers could disappear, but that the risk-free interest rate was the only correct calculation rate. Therefore, the calculation rate proved unsustainable in order to live up to the agreed retirement ambition. Trade unions demanded a return instead of an interest rate, and they also did not demand discounts. That is what we are talking about now in the eyes of the new system. In addition, they knew that large discounts just before the elections would be political suicide for the coalition parties. My prophecy that those discounts won't be made came true. And again it was De Nederlandsche Bank that ordered that if there was to be no risk-free interest, this was only possible under a premium scheme. I thought the pension was a matter for the social partners, but apparently De Nederlandsche Bank decides what needs to be done. Does the Minister find it acceptable that De Nederlandsche Bank has this decisive influence? Mr. Chairman. I now come to the letter of 60 prominent people of 13 October 2019. It has not lost any relevance and topicality, not least because of the Van Rooijen c.s motion. which recorded the views of these prominent people at the end of last year. The motion was held at the Minister's request. The letter describes the actual financial developments in our pension funds and notes that they differ considerably from the current accounting rules. The letter seeks to counter false conclusions, based on a calculation system that sometimes seems to be almost defended in order to shorten. The letter calls for a system of calculation which is more in line with reality, as explicitly provided for in the European IORP II Directive. According to the letter writers, what would be a solution for 60 prominent people from the polder............................................................................................................................................................................ If we accept that pension benefits will always be subject to a certain risk, because the vast majority of pension benefits depend on uncertain investment returns, then it is also reasonable to partially price that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u28	With all due respect, this reminds me of my maiden speech. Then the AOW legislation had to be amended and the eight-month discussion started. Mr Van Rooijen already gave ample explanation of the rate of calculation. I haven't read or read that file right now. Like last time, I focused on the law. I think we should do the same today, instead of quoting a letter from 60 highly educated people. I'd like to read that one again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u29	I understand that Mr Van Ballekom does not want to include my entire speech in his own debate, but I would like to do so myself. I will explain in a moment why this letter remains so important, even in the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u30	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u31	What would the letter writers think would be a solution? If we accept that pension benefits will always be subject to a certain risk, because the vast majority of pension benefits depend on uncertain investment returns, then it is also reasonable to partially reduce that risk. I can tell I'm repeating myself now. After all, the current pension contract is already uncertain in itself and this uncertainty ensures that liabilities can be taken into account with returns higher than risk-free interest rates. From this point of view, according to the 60, the expected return could, for example, consist of two components: one based on risk-free interest rates and another based on realised returns. The letter ends as follows: "There must be room for the actual returns of the funds. And not just sticking the whole system to risk-free interest rates. In terms of content, the current pension contract offers that space and a new contract should preferably do so even more clearly. Otherwise, we're just gonna take ourselves further down the drain. Our pension system and its millions of participants deserve better," they conclude. My group believes that this letter should be given a high priority in the context of the consultation on the new contract. I'm not ruling out that that's gonna happen. The Minister notes that in finding the intergenerational balance, not only the plus effects of preventing discounts play a role, but also, for example, the effect of dampening the premium within the legal possibilities with expected yield on the intergenerational balance. In fact, the prevention of pension reductions leads to the situation that risks shift mainly from older to younger generations, says the Minister. Muffled premiums mean a reverse shift in financial risks. The Minister then says: "There are, in addition to the above mentioned effects, several other effects that will work against each other in the coming years." This plays a balanced role in the transition-ftk and the administrative balance framework. I note that the fall in the interest rate, including the decrease in the Ultimate Forward Rate, is a transfer of capital from old to young, and attenuation of premium as well. Mercer's current office explained in 2016 as follows: "The share in the reservation of liabilities for pensioners has fallen from 39% to 32% as a result of the reduction in the calculation rate from 4.3% to 1.4% since 2007.' I would add that this share has now fallen below 30% as a result of the further fall in interest rates to 0%. I would point out that at the time De Nederlandsche Bank was against the use of expected return for the premium calculation. DNB also wanted to use the risk-free interest rate here. Politics did not follow the position of De Nederlandsche Bank, and that is unique. I don't know if the Minister is actually listening, but that aside. At least this is settled. Politics wanted to keep premiums low and continued the use of this muffled non-cost-covering premium. The dampening of premiums has an annual effect on the coverage rate of around 0.5%. The overall impact has now risen to 6 percentage points. Can the Minister confirm this? There are many more shifts from old to young, as well as the strongly decreased UFR. Mr. Chairman. The contribution coverage rate of the General Civil Pension Fund is 63%, and therefore 6 billion too low. Instead of 16 billion contributions, the ABP pays employers and employees 10 billion. The State pays 4 billion euros a year too little premium, and that has been for years. That's not normal, is it? How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u32	I hesitate to call it a point of order, but I would like to support you. Others say that this is a debate on part of the pension agreement. This is a very interesting and useful debate, but that is not what we are here for. Isn't it normal with every association that you write out an agenda that contains a number of pieces, which you focus on? If we did all this, we'd still be here tomorrow. I would like to ask you: what do you think of the RVU, the holiday savings and the one-off benefit? You don't need this story for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u33	This is linked to the appeal to the Minister to at least focus on the legislative proposal in his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u34	I'd like to take over that suggestion. Sometimes it's better not to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u35	We had the situation in December that a reduction in pensions will be made for 1.5 million pensioners at the ABP and the Health and Welfare Pension Fund. That has not happened now - saved by the gong - but it may still be possible at the end of this year, if the calculation rate remains low. That's what I'm talking about. I would like to point out that we must make sure that we do not cut back already in the transition period. For this, changing the calculation rate method is the solution. That is why I have quoted in detail from the letter of the 60 prominent people who say: please stop, because that is not how things are going. And that can also be the solution in the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u36	You may ask for a debate on the ftk and on everything, but then you must do so properly as an individual Member through the committee, if necessary in plenary, and then you will have your debate. But it's not on the agenda right now. I'd like to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u37	I'm sure you are, but I'm talking about my own speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u38	We have an orderly agenda together, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u39	I'm going over my own agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u40	No, that's not true, Mr. Van Rooijen. I'm gonna go over the agenda. On the agenda is the bill 35555. That's about the Law amount all of a sudden, RVU and leave savings. You will have the floor on that. You will not be given the floor on other matters, so I would ask you to speak only on that point. I am speaking on the agenda at the request of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u41	Mr. President, what do you want? That I'm gonna stop the argument I was gonna pursue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u42	It is up to you to decide what you are doing, but the call from your colleagues, several, and also from me, is to keep you on the agenda. The Rules of Procedure also require me to call on you to do so. So the request is to keep you on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u43	I'm having a really hard time with this. We have 3.3 million pensioners in the Netherlands who have not been indexed for ten years, for whom discounts threaten. The Minister himself says that 15% should be cut in the current regime for the next five years. That's what the Minister called it. I have an argument to make in which I point out that there are very simple methods of removing uncertainty now. This year, too, the low interest rates and the uncertainty surrounding corona can lead to large discounts. And if it isn't this year, then in the year after that. At the latest, the entry into force of the new system will be severely reduced. That's what I'm talking about. I find it regrettable if I was asked to remain silent about this, because we have the opportunity in this House to raise the subject of discounts. And that can only be done by talking about the accounting rate. The Minister was not prepared to do so, despite the pension agreement and all agreements. The President of the Koepel Pensioners, my successor, told me again yesterday in the Algemeen Dagblad how worried the retirement domes and the elderly organisations feel about this. I think I should be able to speak on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u44	I suggest that you at least now focus on the law. Is that a reasonable request?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u45	Mr. President, I didn't hear. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u46	Your point is now made. I suggest you focus on the law now. Is that a reasonable request?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u47	No, Mr. Chairman, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u48	I must draw your attention to the Rules of Procedure. On the agenda is the bill 35555. No one forbids the Chamber to speak about pension policy in a broader sense. Only, the agenda shall be drawn up on a proposal from the committee and shall be determined by the chairman. The Rules of Procedure, adopted by the Chamber, state that I have a duty to call you to order if you go too far outside the agenda. Some of your colleagues have done so by now. I would therefore ask you kindly, Mr President, to make your point at least now, because we are all very interested in your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u49	Mr. Chairman. I understand that some of my colleagues from the parties I will not mention here do not like the fact that we are discussing the Achilles heel of our pension system, namely the interest rate, and that someone who stands up for 3 million pensioners and for 7 million still working, who are being cut and at least not indexed,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u50	Mr Van Rooijen, I would ask you once again to make your point about the bill. It is not a question of rubbing on your colleagues that they do not want to talk about important matters. The agenda is drawn up in an orderly manner, in a way which your group has also supported in drawing up the Rules of Procedure. You've made your point now. I kindly ask you to see if from now on you can confine yourself to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u51	Mr President, I will respond to your request in protest, but I predict that I will not leave it at that. I will take every opportunity to raise the issue. I am not going to point out to other groups, but I know groups that go into detail every time on their most appropriate point and raise this point in each debate. So I'm gonna skip a piece. I understand it's better not now. Mr. Chairman. I have studied this in detail, and this will surprise some of us in the draft law before us. In the written procedure, I asked for detailed attention in particular to be paid to small pensions. I have also asked for calculations of pensions other than those mentioned in the example. In the second round, I pointed out that it is very important for the Minister to clarify matters. So I only brought it with me. You see, I brought all the pieces. I always prepare myself well. In the case of small pensions, of €10,000, only 34% remain for disposable income. In other words, someone with a pension of €5,400 gross, who wants to withdraw €10,000, will have 34% net disposable income. That is so little, of course, that the question arises as to whether that is wise. I'm very fond of facts and figures. I had also asked how the average pension of Pension Fund Health and Wellness is €13,500, but that Borgdorff from Pension Fund Health and Welfare talked about €8,000. I indicated in the question that, of course, this will not be the average pension, but the median pension. This means that half of the participating pensioners of Pension Fund Zorg en Welzijn have a pension of less than €8,000 gross. That's $650 a month. This also means that the person who is now taking up a pension of €10,000 will have very little left of it. I should like to comment on this in detail in the speech I am about to make. The inclusion of a lump sum from people's pension funds is not such a good idea, because we believe that the basis of solidarity and compulsoryity is being undermined. The consequences of taxes and surcharges are not easy for people to see. It is people on low incomes who can make decisions which, on balance, are very bad for them. Basically, it is contrary to the objective of the pension system, namely to save for old age. It is a form of saving and it leads to a lower pension. 10% recording suddenly is relatively much more beneficial if you do not receive any surcharges. So it's not social. It's debilitating. This is the result of the complex system of taxes, falling tax rebates and surcharges. How does the Minister ensure that participants can properly assess the consequences of their choice? I'd like an explanation. This will also prevent the emergence of regrets or mistakes that are discovered later. One can think of the supplementing affair. I've already indicated that a sum suddenly doesn't work for low-income people. The combination of high rates, reduction of general and labour discounts and income-dependent schemes, such as surcharges, make it a financial maze: complicated, unclear, to an incomprehensible extent. The choice of pension all of a sudden has consequences in the year in which you receive the sum suddenly, but also in the following years. It's at the expense of the pension after that, which gets 10% lower. In the general measure of governance, extensive information obligations will be laid down for pension administrators. They must inform and warn about the potential consequences for surcharges and taxes, the Minister said. Mr. Chairman. I hold my heart and also think of the many lowly in this group. We will have to monitor carefully what the first experiences are and then ask ourselves again whether it is all worth what we have here, whether the complexity for the participant, the huge additional implementation problems and implementation costs for pension funds and insurers outweigh these proposals from the government agreement. For us, it is very important that only about 10% of the candidates will benefit from this scheme. What are we even getting into? Are we just gonna keep stacking up implementation problems? This is all the more incomprehensible in view of the enormous implementation problems and implementation costs for pension funds. For them, the implementation of this new system will take five years. The hearing of the Temporary Committee on Implementation Organisations and the report of the Van Dam Committee on the Surcharges affair should prompt us to think about the feasibility of regulations. At some point the border is reached and the traffic light must turn on. My group is not convinced by the replies to the letter of amendment. Due to the problems of implementation, the scheme would only start on 1 January 2022, but we still farther prefer it to be postponed for at least another year, until 1 January 2023. We refer to the serious criticism of the feasibility of the Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies. Inexecutable is, after all, impossible. Mr. Chairman. That little pension I was talking about. In his reply, the Minister confirmed in his request that the pension participant's pension of €5,400 is only a small 54%. We believe that, when a small pension is paid, a solution must be found to the consequences for the allowances. I would like an answer from the Minister as to whether he is prepared to do so. I would also like to point out that Mr Crone's comment on this point is that in the future the allowances may increase slightly if your pension falls, but if the allowances are no longer available or will be quite different, it is of course quite different. Mr. Chairman. Then save the leave. The proposal is at the request of the social partners, such as the ports and police sectors. These are measures that reduce the penalty for stopping earlier. Not really new money from the government, but money from yourself: a cigar from your own box. The employee saves himself for leave by taking less holidays and by buying hours. With a lot of leave savings, you can significantly influence your own retirement date. Mr. Chairman. Then the RVU ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u52	Mind the time, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u53	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost there. It got rather irregular because of all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u54	No, that's when I stopped time. This is the time you requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u55	A limitation of the RVU fine, however small, is in any case an improvement over the current situation. Earlier cessation of work is not significantly facilitated, as the Council of State pointed out, but in our country heavy punishment is punished a little less. Why is it a temporary measure and why is the amount of the exemption so low? Why not one or two modes? Many workers in construction and care already deserve much more. For them is a fine, while they have a very heavy occupation. Of course, we welcome the retroactive effect. Mr. Chairman. Every bit helps, so we support this proposal. We continue to have serious doubts about the proposal on pension all of a sudden. Shouldn't the minister still unplug that? We await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Prior to my substantive speech in this debate, I would like to point out that I am a member of the board of the pension fund for social services. I'm not a participant, I'm not a sleeper, and I'm not entitled to a pension there either. However, I was very happy when, in 2014, after the end of my European mandate, I was asked to sit on behalf of the beneficiaries on the board of the fund. You get a lecture, a conversation, approval by De Nederlandsche Bank and you have to take some courses. I was allowed to join. That felt like coming home to me, because the circle was round. That pension fund was created after we in the Lower House felt that a real pension had to be realized, which also happened. I did that with colleagues. Later, when I did not have a political mandate, I was able to sit in it again. Mr President, I also mentioned this on my list of secondary posts. I say this because, precisely because I am a member of the fund board, I can see from almost all the securities, positive but also negative. Often a small amendment has a very significant impact on feasibility. But not only that; there are often very large effects on the costs a fund incurs in order to comply with the law. Those experiences that I bring from practice, including in today's debate, are therefore useful in the assessment that we, as senators, have to make, namely on legality, feasibility and proportionality. Mr. Chairman. I will then come to the bill of law. May I say that I am very pleased that it is still possible to look at the law a little more calmly, and therefore to do so from which the First Chamber derives its right of existence, namely reflection on the content? I hope we have good understanding here. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is in favour of the pension agreement, which has been agreed by social partners after a long and long period of consultation. But we are also very happy to give the credits to Minister Koolmees, who has also worked very hard for this. That's what I'm gonna tell the Minister. That does not alter the fact that politics, and therefore the CDA group, will not sign by the cross for every implementation of the agreement. After all, it is an agreement on the broad lines, in which the opinion of the social partners, and then politics, on the implementation is very crucial. Furthermore, I would like to congratulate the Minister for having succeeded in launching the Internet consultation process, until 12 February. I am pleased that we can speak, but I have read the consultation and I would also like to give it to the Minister: please make sure that the second pillar pension, which is not owned by the government but by the social partners, is not frustrated in its implementation, through unnecessary interference or unnecessary regulatory drive. Mr. Chairman. On two parts of today's proposal for a law, the members of the CDA Group have some comments. And on some points, we may also disagree with the Minister. But in the core we wholeheartedly support both the RVU and the holiday savings. All of a sudden, I shall come back to that, has been dragged in and makes the whole proposal of law as it is now impossible. With the approval of two elements, which we love so much, you get the third free of charge. The only common thing is that all three subjects are retired. In 2015 we had the Hoekstra motion, and on 24 November last Mrs Sent's motion, on the undesirable linking of actually independent subjects. We take motions here, and then we don't do anything. I do not think it is worthy of the First Chamber to adopt legislation that we know in advance that some of it does not pass the test of criticism. That is why we need to adjust the debate today. Let's start with the RVU. It was not possible to complete the legislation within two weeks, necessary to enable early retirement for workers in the heavy-duty professions because of the unfortunate linking. However, I am pleased that the Minister reported to the social partners just before Christmas: even though we have not completed the law, you can count on it retroactively. I thought it was really putting pressure on me by the department. I didn't like that, because of course the department should have known that the minister had written something else. Then there is a persistent problem with regard to the RVU, which was also mentioned in the written exchange of views. We have done so, but also other groups. I still don't think we got a good answer. I think it should be a non-issue, but I can't figure out why the Minister has so sharpened the knives at that point. The request of the Chamber is very simple: leave employers and employees free to choose the most optimal and often the least costly option for the implementation of the RVU. It doesn't take a law change. I see some of you nodding yes that's how we're gonna do it. So don't prescribe anything, give social partners freedom of choice and therefore also make it possible, if one so wishes, for the RVU to be carried out by a pension fund. There is no need to create a separate entity that is not there, it saves money, the information is then rightly given by the pension fund to the prospective pensioners, the requests for information are deposited with the pension fund and answered there, the calculations of the effects of the RVU are made by the pension fund, at the time it enters and beyond. So I do not see why a pension fund should not be able to take up this implementation. If the minister moves into the employee who wants to retire early, couldn't it be that the employee sees the RVU as an early retirement? I noted that Mrs Moonen also called it "pension." Could it not therefore be that a pension fund is used for guidance and for calculations of the RVU and future consequences? Isn't there a duty of care at the pension fund to answer those questions? The minister says: yes, but in construction and at the ABP they do it differently. That can be done, but there are few funds that are self-administrative, like these two big ones. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore simply surprised that the government is only taking out legal, in my opinion, non-arguments which, in my group's opinion, do not make any sense. I have seen it well, and I think the Minister too, that the Pension Federation has joined that reasoning to ask the Minister to release the execution. By the way, about the RVU: I just got an e-mail from someone from disability care who asked if she could get it and whether collective bargaining partners could agree on it. I just saw that. I would therefore ask the Minister, in relation to the implementation, to reconsider these arguments and to simplify them. Mr. Chairman. I'll come and save some leave. As far as our group is concerned, saving leave is also a serious and supportive part of the legislation we are assessing today. Peter Essers and I received an article from Remko Hesse and Bas Verhengen, asking whether the desired leave savings, which we support, will work. Because people are wondering whether all the barriers have been removed in order to make the holiday savings work. I do not want to go into all the schemes that have been introduced in recent years and have also been abolished with regard to early retirement and whether these continuous changes contribute to what we would like so much, namely adequate pension planning of employees. But in any case, after the end of the life cycle, an employee can only save days off. But the extension that this law now provides for from 50 to 100 weeks would allow the employee to stop working two years earlier. That's nice. This means for an employee that the 456 days of leave must be saved. How do you do that, I wonder? 25 statutory leave days must be taken, but overtime can also be used and free days can be bought. But then I wonder, and I ask the Minister this question: how is labour law governed by the time-limits for legal leave and the limitation period after five years of over-statutory leave? I would like the Minister to explain to us again the tax obstacles, some of which have already been removed, and the obstacles to employment law. We must indeed make sure that this part of the law really gives people a choice. We can't make them happy with a dead sparrow. Mr. Chairman. I come to the most difficult point, namely the benefit at once. That's the strange duck in this law. It's too fast and not well thought out. Its implementation cannot be carried out at all. People who would like to take advantage of it will be burdened with enormous problems. Let me say again: the CDA Group accepts that in the agreements on the pension agreement in a process of giving and taking, there were parties who suddenly saw taking up the benefit as a very great victory. It means releasing people to choose and, fortunately but to some extent, to have the money deposited jointly by the employer and the employee that was intended for the old age. It's not a CDA choice, but we accept it in principle. But the elaboration of that regulation, of this part of the law, is a disaster. Not only have we in the Chamber asked a lot of questions about this, such as what it yields, but we are also confirmed in our questions and examples that, in particular, the people with a very small pension, although the majority of the pensioners, will be able to reap some fruit one year after the benefit. I note that around 40% of participants in large pension funds have a pension that is below €8,000/year. We have asked in the written preparation for calculations for bespoke people. There is an example that if you have an additional pension of €5,400 per year, you get an amount of €10,000, of which €4,300 remains. The causes of this are the tax charge, the charge care and the unable to get housing or rent allowance, because the income in the year you received the benefit was too high. Mr. Chairman. It is not about choosing; it should not be about choosing. But we have to give room for personal preferences and circumstances. I read that the study would show that 10% of pensioners make use of the right to choose. If they all make use of the right of choice, even if the fund is under cover, then it is possible because the effect on the level of coverage, the Minister says, is "so small." Then I'll just find that the individual is going for the collective. Mr. Chairman. I have great admiration for the way in which the government is trying, in the note on the final report, to undermine our concerns and concerns of other groups. People with the lowest incomes are left with a small amount when they make use of the surcharges, which is what you do when you have a low income, but a different kind of calculation suggests that this is a little different. That's not true. Mr. Chairman. Spendable income before and after your benefit is a real concern for us, because the supplements and in particular their reimbursement will lead to problems in the year following the one-off benefit. Then I wonder whether we have not had any experience in recent years of recovery, payment or reimbursement of surcharges. The only way to make the proposal work for people with a small pension is to exempt the 10% buy-back for the rent allowance. It's possible. I should just like to draw attention to the legislation on the disposal of small pensions that we adopted here not so long ago. I also mention the supplement for the care workers. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this? Mr. Chairman. Then the execution itself. I've rarely seen such a destructive reaction to implementing a law. The Pension Federation and also the Association of Insurance Companies, both executives, say that they cannot be held accountable for the expensive and complex design of the sum proposed at once. In addition, the cost of adjusting the amount comes at once. SZW calculates 7.8 million and structural 9.8 million. According to the second letter of amendment, 2.1 million would be added. The executives, the Pension Federation and the insurers, say that if 20,000 people make a choice, you need about 45 million. That means €420 per participant it applies for. You should know that its costs are part of the total cost of the fund. So they do not come per individual who applies for it, but are transferred to the fund. Then it is said: you are too expensive with your execution costs. So we shouldn't do that. In addition to the high costs, complexity also plays a role as a cause of higher costs. When a person is retired, he is presented with the choice of a high-low pension, which colleagues have also talked about. This is voluntary, with the first years a higher pension and then a lower pension. I do not understand why there is now a departure from that 10%, because 10-90 is absolutely much simpler. That's what we approved at the high-low pension. If someone dies in the meantime, a voluntary choice has been made. You could add that to that 10%. That's gonna save you a lot of money. The pensioner makes his own choice and has to be pointed out, and that is what the fund is doing on the effects of, for example, previous death. That has an effect on that choice. That can be exactly the same with the one-off benefit. That avoids extra complexity. When I look at the note following the final report, I say: how can you make it up to prelude to additional payments to heirs? That's literally what it says. The further report examines the second letter of amendment for the House of Representatives, which sought to address a problem related to taxation and contributions at the time of retirement. In short, in the proposal of the second letter of amendment, pensioners may opt for an amount paid in February the following year in order to avoid AOW contributions in the year they retire. That's the arrangement and then you can get an opt-out where you get 10% right away. How hard can you make it? The performers are right to request a review of the implementation of the one-off benefit. As a CDA group, we would like to point out here that we do not want to be held responsible for the predictable chaos that this arrangement is going to cause if we continue it as planned and came out of the House of Representatives. Not only delay the introduction, but also consider how a one-off benefit scheme might be effective. If we get that as a result of this debate, Mr President, we are satisfied. In short, we want to find a passable way with this minister, to allow both the RVU and the holiday savings to proceed, with adaptation of the execution RVU, and to consider how the benefit can be adjusted suddenly in terms of execution and starting date. I have the feeling that Mr Crone and Mr Van Gurp have also made a number of practical comments on this. I would ask the Minister to respond to that wish of the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u58	Thank you, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. Mrs Moonen has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u59	Mr. Chairman. All the measures mentioned today are part of the pension agreement concluded in June 2019 between the Cabinet and the social partners on the renewal of the labour-conditional pension system. The cabinet and the social partners, and in particular Minister Koolmees, deserve a compliment that they have succeeded in concluding a pension agreement. Today's measures concern choices that people make around their retirement date. There is therefore a certain coherence. What also has a connection is that there is room for customization, something D66 is in favour of. However, D66 has a number of critical questions. I want to start with that at the law amount all of a sudden. As others have also argued, pension administrators have indicated that this makes implementation more complex. And that is actually understandable; as you offer more possibilities, you also have a better chance of complexity in the execution. Now the pension practitioners are often very strong in this implementation; that may also be said. But the very fact that they are strong is above all something that D66 believes is important to keep it that way. Something you're good at, most of all you want to keep an eye out for you to stay good at. This is very valuable, for pensioners, but also for participants. And in that respect, it is a good thing that no second choice has been introduced. D66 has previously asked the Minister critical questions about this in order not to unnecessarily complicate implementation, and the D66 Group is therefore satisfied that the Minister has indicated that he is going to limit the choice to the retirement date, as originally envisaged. It is true that the participant can have this amount paid out at two times. Pensioners have stated that they still find a degree of complexity in this outcome, and so they are thinking along with alternatives. Actually, there's a common interest. There is a common interest that the implementation is going well, both with the government of the country, and I know that Minister Koolmees feels very much involved in this implementation, both with the implementing agencies themselves. And my question to the Minister is: can he indicate what guarantees are needed so that the implementation of the benefit scheme will suddenly go well at two different times? According to the Minister, what conditions are needed? Mr. Chairman. The calculation example of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment shows that if a single AOW beneficiary with a limited or an average supplementary pension of €1,800 per year loses both his health care allowance and the rent allowance in the year in which the amount is paid out suddenly. Wage and income taxation is also increasing, as is the income-dependent health insurance premium. Now this effect is understandable, because the sum is suddenly part of the review income for the granting of, for example, income-dependent schemes. So the effect is understandable in itself, but the point is that temporarily not receiving supplements is likely to occur with large percentages of participants, namely people with a low to average supplementary pension. And it is good to realise that, for example, average pensions in the metal and engineering sectors, but also in the construction sector, are well below €1,800 per month. The Council of State also writes that the risks are great that people make decisions that are actually wrong for them because they cannot see the consequences. Pensioners are now obliged to inform the participants correctly, clearly, balanced and timely. Mr Crone has already spoken about this. When a participant submits a request, he will eventually receive a second, more personal and specific information letter. In doing so, pension administrators are obliged to include a warning that the amount may suddenly affect their income-dependent schemes. The fact is that this now includes the need for pension practitioners to map the effects for the participants as well. Pensioners cannot do that, because they do not have a complete picture of the income position of that participant. But that is why the Council of State writes that such an overall overview of the consequences of the choice of an amount is, in fact, only to be properly portrayed by a financial planner, because there are quite a few effects. And now there is a risk that those on low incomes will have less easy access to those financial experts. Now the Minister indicates that it is estimated that around 10% of the number of people who retire will make use of the right of choice. That would be about 20,000 people a year. Now my questions are about these people. How can the negative effects for participants be minimised? How are participants informed in advance that as a result of the withdrawal of an amount at once, they will not receive or partially receive the supplements in that year? What guarantees does the Minister have that pension practitioners are really going to warn participants about such effects? Are there any recovery options for the participant at a later stage if it appears that the impact of the application is too detrimental? Mr. Chairman. I would like to continue my speech on the early retirement scheme. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the possibility of temporarily allowing a relaxation of the levy on early retirement schemes, the RVU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u60	I follow Mrs Moonen's speech. I also broadly follow what others have said about this, as Mr Van Gurp has said. So what's your conclusion? There are so many questions that need to be clarified. They are real questions and they are not so much about political differences. Are we gonna make it this year? Of course, the pension fund has a lot of information about pensions, but not about the family situation, the surcharges, fixed charges, rents, mortgages, rent supplements and so on, and so on. So there is, I would almost say, a very fundamental problem, while the aspect of high-layering remains within the pension fund and is not complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u61	Sure, Mr Crone, and that's why I'm making the point. We see a real risk here, especially for people with lower incomes and with lower pensions. That is why I ask the Minister what guarantees he can give that these people will actually be warned and what conditions are needed to manage this. It is precisely because we in the D66 Group are concerned about it that I am curious about the Minister's response to it in the first term and what he sees as possible solutions. I am not the first to ask questions about this today, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u62	Shouldn't we at least have to wait... there's still an AMvB coming about the duty of care. I assume the AFM will also be watching before we get it here and in the House of Representatives, which will also take some time. There are also fundamental aspects to the exchange of data between pension funds and other performers. Do you not think that we should not now expect this to be completed on 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u63	You mean January 1st, 2022, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u65	They have that year anyway. I know that the Minister is in good consultation with the implementation. That's what's on the agenda for him, too. I am not the first and the only one to address this problem today. Mrs Oomen and Mr Crone also spoke about it. I'm bringing it up because I'm really worried about this. I also believe that the Minister should really be given the opportunity to indicate in his first term how he intends to deal with this in the interests of those participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u66	Does Mrs Moonen agree with me that, as a pension fund under the GDPR, when it comes to informing the individual pensioner, there is little information to be provided?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u67	It is true that pension funds do not have the overall overview of the income positions of the members. You can't take on a task that you're not really equipped to do. That is why I am raising this issue. It means that people with a low income fall between shore and ship. They then need a financial advisor, as the Council of State indicated. Well, they can pay harder. Their entrance, that good financial advice, is more difficult than for people on higher incomes. That is why I am raising this very point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u68	Does Mrs Moonen agree with us that the best solution could be to exempt the benefit from the allowances at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u69	Mrs Oomen, I regard the Minister as high and I look forward to the Minister's reply. A number of parties mentioned this point in the debates and identified the risks. I would first like to await the Minister's answer and hear how he can reduce this problem from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment and what guarantees he can give for it. So I'd like to wait for the answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u70	Please continue your speech, Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u71	I was in the process of early retirement and we are in principle in favour of this. We do this because it allows people to stop working a number of years earlier than their AOW-age. One of the goals is that people can make it to the finish line in a healthy way. You could say that's nice for everyone: for those involved, for the family, for the friends. You can give it to someone after a healthy life to make it to the finish line. It is gratifying to see that agreements are now being made in collective agreements to allow the RVU to enter into force on 1 January 2021. We are talking about people who, for example, because of the gravity of their work, get the opportunity to stop working earlier, think of people who, for example, work as a health care provider or people in construction. As the government temporarily facilitates the RVU, social partners and employers can agree and implement these planning arrangements. The good thing is that they will also have the opportunity to take the opportunity to complete the scheme in such a way as to take account of their own situation, making the best possible use of tax facilitation. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the tailor-made approach adopted by the social partners to agree on a good arrangement at collective agreement level. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the Wet temporisation increase AOW-age, I drew attention to sustainable employability in my maiden speech, which was in July 2019. Also to ensure that employers are committed to ensuring that workers are able to reach the age of AOW in a healthy way. I know that is also very well that the Minister for Social Affairs attaches great importance to sustainable employability, so that people can make it to the end. The cabinet chooses to invest heavily in this, such as long-term learning, continuous development or transfer to a less demanding profession. The Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore attaches great importance to sustainable employability and to the efforts made by employers and workers in this regard. My question to the Minister is whether this relaxation of the RVU tax and the extension of the opportunities of leave savings cannot interfere with the policy of sustainable employability and longer healthy working. Finally. From the point of view of hard-working people, I have one more question for the Minister. Actually, I've got a practical case for the minister. What if you work your whole life as a truck driver? As a driver, you are covered by collective agreements for the carriage of goods. Suppose the employers in this profession are not so keen to use the RVU for their employees. As a result, there will be no collective agreement-level regulation for the carriage of goods by profession or a number of years due to differences of opinion. In my case, we have a 64-year-old truck driver, who's physically a little bit at the end of his Latin. So what are the possibilities, I ask the Minister, for this truck driver to be able to use an RVU as well as his or her collective agreement that is not regulated? You can also ask this question at a different level of aggregation. Then the question to the Minister is what your rights are as an employee if the social partners in your profession are unable to agree on the RVU at collective agreement level. Mr. Chairman. So I really want to end with this practical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u72	Finish your speech, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u73	This was also my last question. In conclusion, I would like to say that the group is looking forward with confidence and interest to the replies from the Minister of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u74	I welcome Mrs Moonen's last question. The example also appeals to me. I once negotiated the collective agreement for the carriage of goods by road. Then I worked at the Transport Association FNV and we shut down the country. I'll lead. Well, not quite the lead. It never happened again, because I left and went to work elsewhere. But it wasn't me. It is a serious sector with heavy professions. Everyone knows that. It is also a sector with a very difficult employers' side, I should like to say nicely. I also asked the Minister what would happen: experiments, pilots. I'd be happy to support your question. Should we not ask the Minister a little more butter on the fish and say himself: if this does not go well enough in a few months' time, then we should take a look here and with the House of Representatives first what we can put extra pressure on it? I have already said that there is no national definition of heavy-duty professions, but there are sectors where there is no doubt that something must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u75	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Crone supports this point. In my family someone is indeed a truck driver, so the example comes from actual practice. He is indeed concerned about the establishment of the employer, whether this collective agreement is being achieved. It's really a realistic practice case. It is good to hear that Mr Crone also recognizes it from his professional practice and previous work experience. Butter for the fish: I do not know very well what Mr Crone is proposing. I would like to mention the point because I would like to hear from the Minister what the rights of the workers involved are. They have a profession in which you can be physically at the end of your Latin and sometimes have to do with an employer who doesn't come out. So I want to hear what the Minister sees as opportunities for these workers. We can always look in second term with Mr Crone to see if anything extra is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u76	Let us do that in second term, but I am thinking of forms of leave for some categories. You're free to negotiate, and sometimes you need some outside pressure. So it's kind of a right, or... even better tax support for certain groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u77	Finally, I would like to keep it simple. I like simple solutions. I don't want us to come up with anything for a particular group, which we're going to introduce a lot of intricacies. I don't think we're doing very well then. But again, I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers. We look forward to it with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. Then we come to Mr Kox, who will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill, in its form, is a textbook example of how not to do it. These are three very relevant proposals which should be able to be assessed on their own merits, but are inextricably linked by the Minister. A simple question to the Minister: why do we do that? Is it an attempt to give the unpleasant parts a chance of success? Is it bureaucracy? I'd like a verdict, especially in the light of recent motions that we've adopted. Mrs. Oomen referred to it. And Mrs Oomen, motions for resolutions adopted must be carried out. We agree on that, don't we? That goes for the same thing here. Such a link would undermine the right of this Chamber to give a reasoned opinion on the desirability and feasibility of proposals. That's bad. It also leads to an imbalance in the legislative proposal itself. One part of the law is actually dealt with too late by the government and parliament. Another part is actually too early, premature. A third part has been put at a disadvantage. That's not the way it's supposed to be, but that's how it's gonna be. If this Chamber had had a right of return, something the Minister of the Interior is working on, even at the request of the State Committee, then I can easily imagine that we had sent this law back to the House of Representatives at the earliest possible stage. Then we would have said: chop this up in three and make only three proposals, so that we can judge them on their own merits. But we're not there yet. I am not even sure that we will succeed in getting the return right adopted in due course, namely in this parliamentary term of the House of Representatives. Let's hope so. Mr. Chairman. So, for the time being, we'll do it with the proposal as it stands. The three proposals have one thing in common: they are consequences of the desire of the majority of politicians to raise retirement age. That requires repair work. As is well known, my group, along with a significant part of the Dutch population, believes that raising the retirement age is not well thought out and is unfair to a lot of people who had put their trust in the government in terms of their pension rights. Also in the upcoming Lower House elections, about nine weeks from now, this issue is still high on the agenda of many participating parties, including ours. Where that leads, we'll see. What we have already seen is that raising the retirement age affects people with a heavy occupation in particular: construction workers, care workers, police officers and firefighters. For a significant part of them, it is impossible to continue to work up to that ever-increasing retirement age. The adjustment of the early retirement scheme makes it a little easier to deal with early retirement where social partners agree on it. Some collective agreements have already agreed on this and others have expressed their intention to do so. Since we are dealing with this part of the law too late in fact, the regulations that have already entered into force on 1 January now need to be legalised retroactively, particularly in the construction sector. That is very sloppy, and that would have been unnecessary if government and parliament had been a little more energetic. In any case, my group welcomes the fact that, after this new year, at least a few hundred construction workers were no longer required to be on the road to construction, but were able to benefit from their well-deserved early retirement. If we finally agree on this part, there will be many more people with early retirement. Can the Minister indicate how many people, according to him, will stop working early this year and in the coming years? What's the problem with that? That's what Mrs Moonen said. What are we gonna do about it? Can he explain again why the scheme is temporary? Finally, what about his research into the possibility of quitting after 45 years of work? That should have been there last year. At least that's how the Minister promised us. It's not there yet. Can he make us happy because we're gonna face that report one of these days? That is important, because it is about a structural solution to the problem. Mr. Chairman. Another way of meeting the wishes of people who are ready to work, but who still have to go through the higher retirement age, is provided for in another part of the legislative proposal: the possibility of saving not a maximum of 50, but 100 weeks' leave and thus building up space to stop working earlier. I know that this is a wish of people in particular who work in the government and often do heavy work, in the police or in the fire department. My group is prepared to support that part of the law, but we continue to find it very annoying and resentful that people working in the government in particular are almost systematically denied the right to take their leave normally. Leave is meant to catch your breath, and not to say at the end of your career: I'm out of asem, so now I'm going to take my leave. Here too, we need to find a much more structural solution. This part of the law is, in my group's view, a temporary solution. A sustainable solution still needs to be found. I would like to hear the Minister say something about this too. Mr. Chairman. A third part of the law is the most discussed here. This is enshrined in the pension agreement and is why this bill has been called into question. As far as I understand, this did not happen at the request of the social partners. They didn't have much to do with it. This was particularly done at the request of D66. That party, in my opinion, was the only one in its electoral programme that people who are retiring should be given the opportunity to take up part of their pension rights at once. I assume this fits in with the liberal D66 wish to get rid of retirement as a collective scheme and go on the road to retirement as an individual product. It's possible. As is well known, in the SP we prefer society to be a little more social rather than even more liberal. So as far as we're concerned, this part didn't have to be in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u80	Mr Kox sketches the picture that D66 would be at once for that amount, in order to get rid of the collectivity. I want to refute that very clearly; that is not the case. Also throughout the pension review, there remains ample scope for collectivity, compulsoryity and collective responsibilities. That is why the government has included very clear guarantees in the lump sum Act, for example the 10% ceiling. These are all guarantees that it will not be at the expense of collectivity. So I'd like to contradict this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u81	That's an interpretation. I respect Mrs Moonen's interpretation, but if you get more and more away from a collective arrangement, in my humble opinion, there will be less and less collectivity and you will get more and more an individual product. In my group's view, this is an expression of the individualisation of pensions. It's very nice to have a maximum. It would be awesome if we had said: take the whole thing up, invest it somewhere and see where you're going. However, Mrs Moonen will agree with me that this aspect has been included in the pension agreement because it was said by certain political parties: we also want something in the agreement. That wasn't from the employers, and it wasn't from the employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u82	I'd like to respond to that, too. It's just that it was a little broader in society. A little more space, a little more choice. That really didn't just play in D66. It was a broader issue, which was put on the table by several parties to the pension discussions, to give a little more individual freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u83	For the record, this is not a reproach. I like it when a party gets something she wants done. You were the only one in the election program and it's now in the pension agreement that's fucking in front of the bill today. Compliments for that. Only I see it as an expression of a further individualization of retirement. I'm not a fan of that. As I said, I am more of a socialist than a liberal. But that's a political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u84	A compliment. Mrs. Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u85	I would like to thank Mr Kox for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u86	I always like to give compliments. If it doesn't cost me too much, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u87	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u88	So it didn't have to be in the bill from me. Employers and employees didn't have to, but it's part of the pension agreement. Be happy, I'd say, with everything that comes from D66 house, but for me it wouldn't have been necessary. But there were more things I didn't have to do that would become law practice. The Minister has now put it well into this bill. This means that if you say yes to RVU and if you say yes to more leave savings, you automatically have to say yes to this part, because it belongs to one bill and we can only say yes or no to a bill. But even if that amount is suddenly the result of this form of legislation, in our opinion it remains too complex for both pensioners and practitioners. The complexity and obligation for practitioners to provide adequate information to beneficiaries is also likely to make the scheme very costly in terms of implementation. Pensioners have already indicated that they will not be able to properly implement the scheme if the Minister maintains the effective date of 1 January 2022. Many colleagues have already spoken about this. Although the scheme is part of the pension agreement, I do not have the idea that deferment of introduction will lead to riots on the part of the social partners. I'm asking the Minister if that's true. Our group seems to be realistic about the objections raised by the pension practitioners. That is why we are calling for the date of introduction to be postponed. And if I have followed the Minister's body language correctly, we are heading in the right direction on this point. The time that will be gained will hopefully be able to be spent on simplifying the scheme and reducing the cost of implementation. I would like a clear commitment from the Minister on this point. Should he have any difficulty with that clear commitment, the Chamber can always give it a little more body in the second term. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. My group is keen to vote in favour of this bill. But the more the minister offers in his first term, the happier we get about the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u89	I listened with admiration to Mr Kox. I share many of the critical points he is touching now. I also share his view on what social partners should and should not do. In substance, we agree. However, I ask myself the following question. If it had been up to Mr Kox, we would have accepted this legislation without hesitation on 15 December. How did Saul suddenly come to Paul?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u90	That's a question of biblical proportions, which I'm not going to answer in that way. But I will tell you a secret: Mrs Oomen and I work extremely well together on all fronts. On 15 December, Mrs Oomen had been perfectly able to keep exactly the same story as she did today, just like Mr Crone, Mr Van Gurp and I. We had our positions involved. After 15 December, nothing has changed, so we could have had that debate by now. My criticism then had to do with the form of this bill. Because we did not deal with the bill in time, we wronged the people who would retire early on 1 January. Thanks to the Minister's generous communication, it worked out. He said, "I'll make it all work." But we didn't make a good turn with that. We could have dealt with that bill back then. We didn't have to chase it through, but we could treat it completely. Then it would have been good. As I said, it worked out well, but I do not think that good legislation needs to be cursed with speedy legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u91	I think it is very nice of Mr Kox to welcome the fact that we can give greater consideration to this bill today. At the time of the reply, we already knew from the Minister that the RVU would be carried out retroactively after 1 January. So that wasn't the reason. The reason was that we now come up with a number of additional questions and comments to better legislation than we did then in the curse and the sigh that was left for us on that last Tuesday. How does Saul come to Paul?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u92	Mr President, Mrs Oomen obviously has an insight into your brain, because you decide how much time we spend on a legislative proposal. The minister could have said, "You know what? We are going to talk about this 15, 16 and 17 December." It would have been before the recess. We are all paid for that period. It would not have been a problem to deal with it before the recess, but that is a case that is already behind us. Let us not say now: there was nothing wrong; we are doing it retroactively. This Chamber, also through your group, has said on several occasions that we must do everything we can to ensure that we do not adopt legislation too late, so that retroactive action is required. We shouldn't do that. That should not be the lesson of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u93	I'm just a kid here, but when I hear someone often say how important the work of the First Chamber is, it's Mr. Kox. The First Chamber is independent. We set the pace. Now we're gonna do it right for once. We say: we want careful legal treatment. We didn't even get the answers. We didn't get it until last week. It was another thirteen or sixteen pages of answers. You said that Mr Crone could have kept this story in December. That's not true. You will allow me, like yourself, the room for a good debate, won't you? The minister was late, so focus on the minister, but not on your fellow members. Last week, Tuur Elzinga was on the radio. You know him from the FNV on the radio. He said, "Nothing's wrong." He's reassured people, too. The law itself states that it can be done with retroactive effect. This is in the law! So I'm sticking to the law and the procedures. Why are you being so acidic? Now, if you'll excuse me, we've done a good job of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u94	If you look at me very kindly, I'd be happy to be friendly. But we didn't do it right. We should have dealt with the law in time. It could have been. We talked about December 15th. There was still a long time to go until the recess. The Chamber has even come back from recess. All of that could have happened. The Minister has now taken the time to answer the questions. But this Minister is also able... If we talk about the necessary billions, for example, and we say that we want an answer the next day, then we get all those answers! So all of that could have happened. But once again, I just hope that we do not draw the conclusion from this: "Well, it doesn't matter." If we adopt legislation with retroactive effect, it does matter. That is not neat, that is not clean and certainly not because it was people who had been waiting for the greenhouse for years, of: damn it, now I get out in January. It is true that that House of First Instance is able to turn it into something that may make it insecure. That was not good and we should not justify it, but it is also good that it will be okay now. Compliments to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u95	I propose that we conclude this procedural debate. Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u96	We'll try, Mr. Chairman. However, I find it so hard for Mr Kox to blame us, for our colleagues in the Chamber, while we ask for a proper procedure and have ensured that these two weeks later will not cause any damage. Then why are you going to blame us when we are monitoring the care of the legislation, which you always do? The rentals we had here in the spring were partly with retroactive effect and you loved that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u97	Finally, Mr. Kox. As you know, this procedural debate belongs in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u98	Mr President, I didn't bring it up, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u99	If you stop talking about it, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u100	I'm gonna stop about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u101	I'd do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u102	But I am going to end with the conclusion that this Chamber must remind us of previous decisions: we do not adopt legislation with retroactive effect, unless there is no other way. In this case, it could have been otherwise. That it didn't happen any other way, I'm at peace with that. I am not such an acidic person and I am glad that the Minister has done it on this point. I also hope that the other questions I have put to him here will be answered with satisfaction. Then hopefully we'll be able to agree on this bill tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u104	Mr. Chairman. The VVD focuses on the interests of prospective pensioners and beneficiaries. This is to reassure Mr Van Rooijen. My group is not at all opposed to liberalism and to facilitating its own choices. On the contrary, liberalism is neither a disease nor a disease. As the written preparation for this debate has shown, my party warmly welcomes the proposals before us. The main concern is and will continue to be the feasibility of the proposals, and in particular the payment of the sum at once. Questions were asked about this in the first round and I would also like to concentrate on that in this debate. Questions on the basis of the Government's response have not been raised by the VVD. Not that the Minister would have answered all the questions to his full satisfaction, to my regret, but in all the year-end pressure, I don't even blame him. Nor have we asked any additional questions because the concerns about feasibility can easily be addressed in these consultations. Nor have we joined the supplementary questions put by colleagues, who, with all due respect, are of some paternalistic nature in our view. They're questions about the familiar road. At the beginning of the year we are still full of good intentions and I had intended to ask such questions as little as possible: questions about the familiar path are a waste of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to know what the speaker means by 'paternalism' and what he sees it to. Could you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u106	I'll get to that, ma'am. I will come back to that in my intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u107	With your permission, I will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u108	Yes. And if it has not yet been answered, Mrs Oomen, then you can ask me that question. Of course, all three proposals arising from the pension agreement could be offered and dealt with separately, but, as everyone knows, it is a precarious balance between giving and taking, and it may be disturbed by a different approach. That is also clear from the questions that have been asked. And by the way, with a little good will, you can also discover a coherence in the proposals. This is a pension system that is more tailor-made and takes as much account as possible of individual wishes, without putting the cat too close to the bacon and tempted to pry everything up in advance, and without violating the collective character. By definition, more freedom of choice means that it becomes more difficult for all parties. I believe that the predicted chaos can be prevented and in our opinion prevented. The time when you could buy all the color cars at Henry Ford's, if they were black, luckily is really behind us. And, with all due respect, I don't think return duty would have helped us either, Mr. Kox. Because I think that our comments had then been taken into account on the other side, after which they were put into the fourth drawer on the right, because the House of Representatives unanimously accepted this proposal. So I don't think the return right would have really helped a lot here. Can the prospective pensioners cope with this freedom of choice? That brings me to Mrs Oomen's point. Of course they can do that, Mrs Oomen, because the pension sector has very experienced, highly service-oriented and highly skilled pension practitioners, who can provide stakeholders with all relevant information, so is my personal and professional experience. In between, I say: a prospective pensioner is not obliged to make use of any flexibility. It is about offering opportunities, and also about offering opportunities to social partners to facilitate this. Moreover, this non-obligatory requirement is clearly reflected in the answers to the questions raised in this regard. And I think this puts the do-it-yourself test in perspective. Or am I mistaken, I ask the Minister. This power test has been somewhat offset by the obligation of pension practitioners. What is not quite clear to me is why the social partners cannot accept the implementation of the RVU with the funds. I understand that this does not have anything to do with the task of a fund, but there are points of contact. The answer makes it clear that it is possible if the execution is deposited with a pension administrator, such as the construction sector at APG. Social partners therefore have the choice between wage administrators, insurers and pension administrators. The performers often have the expertise, and it is in line with the task of an performer. I can follow this reasoning, but I find it rather rigid to exclude the funds in advance from competition considerations. Moreover, I do not think that there are very few funds to support this task. On the other hand, I can imagine that it would be useful for a prospective pensioner to keep everything in one hand as much as possible. I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on this. The following questions and comments remain, Mr President. The VVD has urged that consideration be given to delaying the introduction of an amount by one year at a time in order to allow the sector to adapt the IT systems accordingly. We know how complicated that is. In particular, the government is an experienced expert. The Minister did not explicitly comment on whether he was prepared to do so and said that it is a pity that certain people could not make use of the scheme in the event of a certain delay. My response, with all due respect, Minister, is that the government also took a long time to come up with these proposals; the consultations were already completed in December 2019. So care is important and the delay is largely on the side of the government and not on the side of this Chamber. It is therefore less appropriate to then place us under time pressure, with all the negative consequences. My question is: will the Minister reconsider this proposal or respond to the concerns in any other way? And does he also want to acknowledge that there is a problem here, and that it is right that the pension practitioners brought it to our attention? Finally, Mr President. Would the Minister be so kind as to explain once again, I did not understand that correctly, but of course that is simply up to me why the one-off benefit should not be combined with an AOW bridging arrangement? I didn't get that right. Wouldn't the possibility of a benefit suddenly become significantly more attractive if it were allowed? My group looks forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u109	I see Mrs. Oomen getting ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u110	Paternalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u111	I'll come back to paternalism. I see the paternalism we would have. You say that we only like liberalism. That's okay. You guys can keep that. But if by paternalism you mean our principles of solidarity with the weakest, a shared responsibility, then you may keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u112	I meant by paternalism that we doubt the quality and responsibility of the social partners and the freedom of choice of pensioners or prospective pensioners. Can they handle the freedom of choice? I would like to leave this as much as possible to the social partners and to the prospective pensioners themselves, and I would like to do so as little as possible. That's what I call a little paternalistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u113	Mrs. Oomen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u114	Can I remind Mr Van Ballekom that this is the implementation of a law agreed by the social partners in the global sense, but whose implementation has everything to do with people who have to choose, people, including low pensions, who have to choose what is best for them? That I am concerned about, and I think a large part of this Chamber should not be played down. It did, I thought, with the term paternalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u115	Thank you. Then I guess that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u116	Do I want to respond to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u117	I can't judge that. You'll have to report it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u118	I think giving more freedom of choice is a great thing. Again, do people have to make choices? They don't have to make choices at all, they can do it the way they always have. It is a freedom of choice, which I, and my party, warmly welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u119	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 4:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u120	We are now ready for the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your questions in the first term. Today we are again talking about a part of the pension agreement, namely the Bill Amount at once, the RVU and the leave saving. I would like to thank Members for the questions asked and for the careful handling of the legislative proposal. Before I go into the specific parts and the questions, I will go into a point that you have brought in almost all, namely the coherence of the parts in this legislative proposal. We have deliberately chosen to incorporate these three measures into a single legislative proposal. Perhaps I am repeating myself, but in my opinion the coherence follows from two things. Firstly, it is part of the pension agreement. There has been regular consultation with all stakeholders on the second element, the different moments that are important in the choices people make about retirement. It is indeed about making more customization possible, for example by pulling your pension forward to stop working earlier in connection with the RVU scheme. In the RVU scheme, the employer pays a part, the employee raises part of his pension income and the government facilitates by releasing the RVU tax and making EUR 1 billion available for accompanying policies. Another element is, of course, the sum at once. The amount has also been put down as an alternative to, for example, the high-layer construction. The high-layer construction is often another element that increases the choice to stop working earlier. Mr Van Ballekom asked the same question in his last question. You're, as it were, compensating for a part of your AOW that you're missing by asking for a higher pension. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the substantive coherence lies in the different choices, different tailor-made solutions, around the time of retirement. If you're asking me if I'd rather have pulled it apart afterwards, I'd say yes. But that wasn't the intention. The intention was a substantive coherence of these three legislative proposals, which do have to do with the choice for individual employees about when you can stop working. I also hope that I have, I shall say, removed some of this fundamental discussion from all kinds of political discussions. As far as I'm concerned, it was meant to be. Mr Van Rooijen has asked a lot of questions. They were mainly about my letter of 16 December on the transition-fk and on the consultation documents for pensions. I have already offered during the Christmas budget procedure that I would like to talk to your Chamber about this in detail shortly. But if you will allow me, I do not want to go into that today and the questions... Excuse me, there's a piece of fruit in my throat. I'll eat fruit sometime and you'll have this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u122	Would you like me to suspend for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u123	Just a moment... please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u124	I just at all speed so I ate a piece of fruit downstairs during preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u125	It should be in your esophagus and not in your trachea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u126	Yeah, exactly. That didn't go well, so excuse me for that. However, I would like to offer to Mr Van Rooijen that we will soon have an extensive discussion on the consultation document and the ftk and not go into it today. I would like to go into three parts, namely the sum at once, the RVU and the leave-saving. I shall start with the amount at once, because most of the questions have been asked. Mr Hans de Boer and Mr Han Busker also visited the formation to talk about this subject, after consultation with the social partners, in order to create more room for freedom of choice in the pension system, including the possibility for participants to take up a sum at once. In its opinion, the ESC, the Economic and Social Council, further developed this option, for example as a way of developing the high-level structure, as a specific way of shaping that freedom of choice. In the end, we also made concrete agreements with the social partners in the pension agreement. I'm also glad we can discuss this here today. I will come back to more detailed questions about this later. We know that a lot of people are interested in those choices, like that amount all of a sudden, but we have thought carefully. We have designed it in such a way that any participant can make use of it on the pension date. It's not an obligation; it's a can-determine. We also thought about the capacity mentioned in the WRR advice, for example by setting the default. That standard choice is: no sum at once, just to protect people from too much freedom of choice all at once. There are a number of terms attached to that today, but the default is: no amount at once. You really need to raise your finger. You have to apply for it if you want to use it, also from that analysis of the WRR's ability to do so. In addition, we have included in the bill a number of conditions that protect the participant from too much freedom of choice. I am a liberal, but I understand the combination of liberalism and paternalism very well, because you also don't want some people to make the wrong choice. I am still trying to keep the ship in the middle between Mr Van Ballekom and Mrs Oomen, so that we can make that combination of freedom of choice and responsible freedom of choice possible. But I'll get back to you on this. The most important issue, which you have all brought in, is actually the feasibility. I've received signals about this feasibility before. We have also received signals from pension administrators, both from the Pension Federation and from the Association of Insurance Companies, in particular from the second letter of amendment. It was established at a late stage in the Lower House as a response to the solution for the AOW premiums that could be a tax for people who benefit from this scheme. This considerably increased the complexity of this scheme and reduced its feasibility. We've had a lot of meetings with the pension planners. A lot of alternatives have also been discussed. I also informed your Chamber about this, for example about the limitation of the target group or the 90-10-90 variant, which was also included in the written set. I also indicated why we did not choose those alternatives. This had to do with either legal objections or the question of equal treatment. But the main focus is on the implementation date of 1-1-2022, especially in conjunction with the second letter of amendment, which has increased complexity. I agree. I've also really tried to fix this with the pensioners for this. We simply failed to do so; we must be honest about that. That is why I am right to take the sting out of this debate. I am prepared to have the legislative proposal introduced a year later, so on 1 January 2023, so that the performers also have more time to set this up carefully in their preparation and also have more time to provide information to the participants. In addition, we will use this extra time to examine with the pension practitioners what adjustments are needed to improve feasibility. Pensioners have indicated that the feasibility is too complex due to the time between the decision on the pension start-up date and the time when the sum is paid out, and the series of benefits by the second letter of amendment. We really need to find solutions to make it work. It will examine what solutions are needed to reduce complexity and implementation costs and to communicate well with the participant. I agree with you that it is important to keep that side in mind. In doing so, it is important to keep an eye on the legal possibilities, particularly in the area of equal treatment. We really need to dive in there and get that done properly. I know that's considered differently, but let's just sort this out, would be my thesis. Then we also have a moment to discuss this properly. Again, along with the performers, I'd like to solve that. It is therefore reasonable for the legislation to be amended. We now also have time to do this carefully and properly, to analyse it neatly. I'll come back to that, first to the Lower House and then to the Upper House. I think this is the most important commitment of this debate. That is why I put it right at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u127	The point is that the design is also a problem. On 90-10-90, the Minister always speaks in relation to equal treatment, and I do not see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u128	It's right up ahead in my set, so I'll get back to you in a minute, if that's okay with you. Simply put: your pension goes into effect and then you have a 100% benefit, your normal pension rate. If a participant withdraws an amount at once and therefore starts with a lower pension, but dies suddenly in the time between the starting date and the payment of this amount, the question is whether that participant has received too little pension in the intervening months. It is legally believed that this is, in part, a kind of expropriation, so to speak. People don't get part of what they're entitled to. I know that Mrs Oomen thinks that we do the same kind of construction at high-layer level. She asked why it's okay there. That is because there is actuarial recalculation and no sum is paid at once. This is a typical example that I cannot fully judge at this time, in the short term. With the performers and with the lawyers, we need to take a look at this. Is this so and are there solutions to be found with each other? The written questions of your Chamber also asked whether there is anything to be done, for example to pay a pension payment that may be lost. I'm very pragmatic about that. I want us to solve this, so that the Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies are also thinking: this is a good arrangement, which we can implement well and our participants are pleased about. So I'm not basically in this, but you're gonna have to take care of it for a while, so it's gonna stick with the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u129	I thank the Minister for his pragmatism. One: 90-10-90 we also do at high-layer. That's one ground. The second reason I have indicated is that it is a voluntary choice to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u130	I agree with Mrs Oomen on this second element. That is also the distinction with the rent allowance for small pensions. That's an obligation. As a participant, you have no choice. Here you have a choice as a participant, I agree with you. That freedom of choice could be an element why this can be weighed differently. At high-layer level, I think it's just the same again. The actuarially neutral calculation is how much you first get given your life expectancy and how much you get later. There is also an adjustment mechanism in that high-low construction to the degree of returns that have been realized. If you die in the meantime, you have, as it were, received too much, but this actuarial calculation is based on that. It already takes into account the fact that some people die earlier. I think that is why it is different. I see Mrs. Oomen shaking no, but let's just get this over with. We can now dispute the actuarial neutrality of that 10%, but I don't think that's getting anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u131	Legally, it's complicated enough, so I'll trust you to come up with a solution. But, of course, there are also two policy choices. You can either say: someone has chosen the benefit at once; the pension is already falling and he dies before it is paid. Very sad, but then you have to say, politically: yes, but he has chosen; he or she. His heirs still get the money. You can also say: no, the moment of decision is the moment of money. And then you're gonna have to replenish the short-term pension. I don't care, because you can defend it both ways. Only, what's bothering me is that I'm giving you all the space, literally is to come up with modalities that are smarter than we have now, or else we're going to say "this is not allowed" and "this is allowed." So now let's take that extra year's freedom, or how much you need. Choose which one: left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u132	We will also, in consultation with pension administrators and insurers, see to what extent we can reduce complexity. 'Cause we've had a couple of variants in the last few weeks... That also has to do with the Christmas period. It's all been complicated, all haste. With the best intentions, that has been discussed. There's also been some confusion of speech. Well, don't worry about it. Let's just take a moment to work this out properly and neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u133	Yes, I would have called you between Christmas and New Year's, but Mr. Kox obviously didn't like that, because we had to postpone the debate. But seriously, I had another solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u134	I'm not going to interfere with your fitness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u135	What's your question, Mr. Crone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u136	My question is as follows, and I have already put it in the written documents. If someone dies, of course, you can just say: boy, we don't have to settle that. We have a tailor-made solution. We know who died because they're reporting it. And then we're gonna call that person, or... the next of kin, of course, and then he gets... So, sometimes you don't have to take care of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u137	In my pragmatism, I am inclined to agree with you, but I also want to know whether this will not lead to new complexity for pension funds, for example, which say: yes, now you ask me to make all kinds of after payments to next of kin, where there may also be a fuss about who the next of kin are; should I go back to doing that, with all kinds of costs involved? So intuitively I agree with you, but I think, or at least my experience in this field teaches me, that it always comes from more than you first think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u138	My experience is: if it is easy, then someone always knows something about equal treatment and so on. I'd say keep it easy, follow your intuition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u139	Yeah, I'm trying to, but then I always have to think about whether I'm gonna get wet with a judge a year later and fix it again, and I don't want to. So again: we just need to get out of this, because this is important enough, also for all participants. This is, in my view, the most important point for this debate. I think it is good that we give that clarity and certainty, so that we also have time to solve it properly. Then a few more fundamental, fundamental questions about this bill, about why, as Mr Van Gurp said, the "freedom, happiness" of this bill. I just said it a little bit in my introduction: we really tried to find a balance between, indeed, on the one hand more freedom, happiness and more freedom of choice, because we also see that a lot of people want that very much; not just to buy a caravan, but also, for example, to relieve their homes or adjust their homes in case they become disabled. All these kinds of goals are, of course, just charities. And it's also the case in the Netherlands and that's also a bit the macro discussion that there are very long balances. People have a lot of wealth stuck in homes or pension schemes, so they can't make it liquid, so, for example, they can't easily change their homes. Well, such an example can be solved with this amount at once. That is indeed a point of choice that I think is positive; many people want it, and we are making it possible to do so. The downside, and precisely the point Mr Van Gurp, but also Mr Kox and Mr Crone warns, is: are you careful that people do not make the wrong choice? Well, we have tried to find that balance, also in consultation with social partners, with the Lower House, with the supervisors. Then what are the terms you apply? So one of them is: no accumulation of options. So if you choose a high-layer construction, you can't choose another 10%. There are differences of opinion, including in the Lower House. The VVD and D66 said: we want some more options. Other parties said less. I think this combination is very good to defend. In the ESC opinion, this combination was also chosen by the ESC. That's one. The second element is the freedom of choice. It is a voluntary choice for people; it is not mandatory to do so. In fact, the default is not to do it, also because of "knowing is not doing it." So the ability to steer a little bit, a little nudgen, through the bill. Another condition is that it is maximized to 10%. Why 10%? There really has been 20% or maybe even more on the table, but then you have the discussion again that it has too much effect on the future retirement pension... And now my vote goes away again, Mr. Chairman, so I'm waiting again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u140	I see it, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u141	Excuse me. You don't have the guts to cough at times like this either, do you? So in the design, the condition and the demarcation of the 10% we have made a number of choices which actually also protect people from wrong choices. Then we also included a number of information obligations in the law which require pension administrators to inform the participants about the consequences of the choices. For example, there is also a reference to the website of the Tax Administration, where you can make a test calculation to find out what this means for your fees. That AMvB about the disclosure is still coming to you. I think it will come a little later because I have also postponed this part and I still need to find a solution to the feasibility of these complex laws and regulations, but I need them done in time so that the performers also know what information they need to communicate to the participants, what they need to warn about and what risks there are. These are a number of elements which have enabled us to find a balance between freedom and happiness, which I am normally very much in favour of, and on the other hand to be careful that it does not lead to wrong choices. In the Netherlands, however, we are left with the very complex tax, premium and surcharge systems and the progressiveness in them. This is also reflected in this discussion, also in the House of Representatives. When you receive a lump sum payment, you pay more taxes and you can also receive fewer supplements if you are eligible. On the other hand, you also have a structurally lower pension benefit and so you also get some of the supplements back. So macro-visited and also considered over the course of life it is fairly neutral. Only, it can turn out wrong in individual cases. It can turn out wrong if you lose your fees at once and you are no longer entitled to those fees. In the House of Representatives, I said that I would consult with the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Finance, who formally deals with the rent payment, to see if there is anything possible. There are exceptions at the moment, for example for the redemption of small pensions, but there is a difference, namely that as an individual participant you cannot object to them. That is not a voluntary choice, but an automatism of the pension executive. That has also been the reason for making that exception. So it's a few of those kinds of considerations that we really need to look at seriously and carefully in the further development of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u142	About the buy-back of small pensions. The Minister says you're not obliged to buy off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u143	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u144	You're obligated to buy it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u145	No, the executor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u146	If I do, you can deposit what you're being offered to another fund. So it's basically the same situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u147	With that difference that the pension fund can decide to buy it off. There are limits to that you don't have the choice. This bill is really based on the individual's free choice. Again, the default is that you don't, but you have to file an application, take action to request it. This is quite different, even in the practical context of this scheme, which at that time was also the reason for excluding this scheme from the rent allowance. My point is that we agree on this point, and I believe that we do not want such a sum to lead to a lot of hassle, recovery and complexity. I also think that Mr Omtzigt's second letter of amendment to the House of Representatives also leads to a little more predictability. For example, if you pay it out in February of the following year, you'd better take into account the effect on your taxes and fees. So that in itself is an improvement, which also makes it easier to identify the consequences. But I also admitted in the Lower House that I'm going to look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u148	But that doesn't take away...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u149	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'll give you space in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u150	But I'm gonna look into it. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u151	However, this improvement continues to result in the result of the sum being suddenly lower than we would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u152	I don't understand that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u153	Even if you know this, it remains that the net benefit of what you would like remains lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u154	I don't dispute that either. This has to do with the progressivity of our tax system and the fact that income-related schemes are reduced when your income is higher. In the House of Representatives, I think a motion by Mr Bruins of the Christian Union and Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 was rightly adopted to put an end to the surcharge system, because this only leads to pumping around and complicated situations. So I very much agree with that. We still have some time and before we have a new alternative, we are really a while further. That this has unwanted effects, we agree very quickly. Mr Van Gurp and Mr Crone asked me to reflect on the collective and solidarity of the pension system. Again, there are a number of conditions that add up to high/low or the maximation on the 10%. But we also have the risk of risk selection. That is hugely restricted by introducing one moment of choice on which to indicate whether or not you want it. This has led to the calculations in the written set on the potential impact of risk selection on the coverage level, for example. We estimate it as very limited, because people have to indicate whether or not they use it on the date of their pension. If you were to release that until a few years later, you would have a greater risk, Mr Crone was right to point that out because, for example, people estimate that they will not live for long because they have become seriously ill and then say "do the amount all of a sudden'. It's a sinister example, but you know what I mean. By limiting it to that one moment of choice, that risk selection is not entirely away, I admit that immediately, but much more limited. Relax, Mr. Crone, I see you want to interrupt, but I'd save that for later. You've asked a lot of questions, and I'll get right to that. Mr Crone and several spokesmen asked about the information and what specific information the performer should make known to the participant. The difficulty is that the pension administrator has no information on the participant's income situation, especially if the participant has multiple pension schemes because the participant has worked with multiple employers in other sectors. Mrs Oomen or Mr Kox spoke about this. The specific information indicates the level of the one-off lump sum benefit and the level of the lifetime pension if the participant does make use of that right of choice. In addition, the AMvB provides that the specific information will include the necessary warnings, for example with regard to the effects on tax and premium charges and the surcharges, and refers to the website of the Tax Administration and the SVB so that the participant can make so-called pilot calculations. This is basic information made available to the participant. In addition, a concept of the AMvB that we have already created now provides for information on the amount to be shown all at once through the pension register, where all pension schemes are brought together. This also gives the advantage that you can see different pension jars side by side and estimate the effect on your pension income if you use it. Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Gurp and Mr Crone said: when using the right of choice for the sum at once, you have the risk that low incomes will be the most disadvantaged because they are faced with the relatively highest progressiveness. That is the combination of tax and premium taxes with income-dependent surcharges that brings the greatest progressivity. That's true, and I don't dispute that at all. The important point is that it is a voluntary choice. You don't have to use it. If you have made this calculation and it appears that this entails a very high tax and premium charge, it is unwise to use it. That is why it is especially important for the participant to be made clear what the consequences are. My expectation is that a lot of participants will not use it, but that they would, for example, use a high-low construction, or not use it, rather than this sum at once. You see how much tax you pay all of a sudden. This also makes it clear in advance what its consequences are. I've already had the information on supplements. Mrs Moonen asked about the guarantees for compliance with the obligation to warn. The warning obligation shall be laid down in the AMvB. The pension administrator warns the participant what the consequences may be for the surcharges, taxation and income-dependent schemes. The pension administrator shall also indicate where the participant can calculate these consequences. The provision of information is subject to the supervision of the AFM. So he's watching to see if it's happening in the right way. The AFM can also maintain if the warning obligation is not properly implemented. I think I have dealt with all the questions about supplements and things all of a sudden. Then there were a few specific questions from Mr Crone. In fact, I found it interesting that Mr Crone was going through a more ideological debate and that he was asking about the consequences of the new system, for example the introduction of pensions into the new system. There is no need to wait for the new system for the introduction of this bill. Why not? A pure calculation is also made in the current system for what the sum is all at once. That has to do with the payoff foot. We are already using this buy-back rate, for example in the case of small pensions, which Mrs Oomen just asked a question about. We use that payoff rate, so that a pure calculation is made of how much you get as a participant by buying off your pension for 10%. Therefore, we do not have to wait for the new system, where more allocated assets are calculated to the individual. Of course, this also happens more actuarially. Is it true that women receive higher benefits? That was a bit of a playful question from Mr Crone. No, in itself that's not true. Of course, we cannot distinguish between men and women, even though we know that women live longer than men on average. The redemption value shall be determined on the basis of the redemption rate and that redemption rate shall be determined annually by the pension administrator on the basis of the implementing principles, such as experience mortality. There is no distinction between husband and wife. It's a kind of collective actuarial equivalence. Apart from that, women live longer than men on average. You also have to take into account sector conditions. Well, you know what I mean. Mr Crone also asked: does it not make sense for pension funds or their executives to play an active role in advising them to avoid high consultancy costs? That is actually broader than this bill and an ever-increasing debate. From my financial spokesmanship in the Lower House I remember that the focus is often on low-income people. Since pension administrators do not have a complete picture of the income position, it is very difficult to fulfil that role. Moreover, this is quite paradoxical... is the situation that you don't need advice on some products at all. Think of a mortgage, for example. This also requires large financial decisions, which can have major consequences, but are not subject to consultation. By laying down that obligation of information and that obligation of warning that Mrs Moonen asked for, in an AMvB, so that we can at least inform the participants what the potential consequences are, we try to provide the best possible response to the effects of the participants' choices, if they make use of the sum at once. It goes a little far, at least so far, in the overall weighting, to say that you necessarily need a consultative duty. We've never made that choice so far. So we can't put that down with the performers either, because they don't have the total picture. They only have a view of part of the pension income of the participants, because you can also have a pension elsewhere. Again, the obligation to provide information is regulated in the AMvB. Mr Crone asked: what is the basis on which is the estimate that 10% of people want to raise a sum at once? No empirical data are available. This is an assessment that we made in 2015. Its validation has been reviewed by the Central Planning Bureau. The 10% assumption is based on foreign examples. In Switzerland, for example, 30% opts for a lump sum and even half in Chile. Such a choice is highly dependent on culture and institutions, and also on the progressiveness in your taxation. As your taxation is more progressive, it is of course more unattractive to make this choice. In addition, we choose that this is a fill-in of the high-layer construction. Mr Crone rightly said that at Zorg en Welzijn about a third use of the high-layer construction. That means that these people can also choose a sum at once. That's what the assumption is based on. Again, it was validated by the CPB. It is then also calculated what it means for the coverage levels and for the risk selection if 10% is going to do so. You can find that analysis in the written set. It is estimated that the effect is very limited. The estimate is an effect of 0.03% on the coverage rate, because of that one moment of choice, the limitation to 10%, and the fact that you cannot combine high-layer and 10%. All in all, we've been working on this for a while. I thought Mr. Kox said that. Indeed, in the course of 2019, or even 2018, we have sent reports to the House of Representatives with CPB analyses on how to shape this. We've been thinking about the WRR report Knowing isn't doing anything yet. We have thought about freedom of choice in combination with paternalism and protection. We have filled in and submitted all those elements. Actually, we were done with that by the end of 2019. We then made agreements with the social partners. This resulted in the headline note in the summer of 2020, after which this bill could be sent to the Lower House and the Upper House. This has partly caused the gap in time between December 2019 and the submission to the Lower House just after the summer of 2020. That is an explanation of Mr Kox's question. Mr Van Ballekom asked: why can't the AOW bridge and the amount suddenly be combined? I've just given a little answer to that. That's because this is actually a variant of the high-low benefit. We have said: you cannot do both; high-low and 10%. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, these were the questions about the sum at once and the duties that pass by. I would now like to go on with the questions about the RVU, or the early retirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u155	In the meantime, I can report that the term "fittie" has been used by the cabinet before in this Chamber. That was December 12, 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u156	By who?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u157	By your colleague Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u158	That's right. We use that term more often among ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u159	Whether that's a disappointment or a comfort to you, I don't know. But I thought, for the sake of completeness, I'd call it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u160	That last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u161	I'll leave that on your account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u162	Mr. Chairman. Then the second part of the bill: the RVU. That has indeed been discussed for a long time. Over the last ten years, we have often looked at how we could find a solution for the heavy-duty professions. Can we distinguish between what is a heavy occupation and what is not a heavy occupation? Twice, social partners tried to make such a definition or definition, and twice they failed. That has led us, in fact, in the course of 2019 in the negotiations on the pension agreement, to think about what we could do with each other. A shared responsibility has emerged. Employers pay, as it were, the gross AOW, up to three years before the AOW date. As a government, we are contributing by abolishing the RVU tax and making EUR 1 billion available for sustainable employability. Ms Moonen was right to pay attention to this and to solve financial bottlenecks for employers. Employees pay a little bit of money by bringing their pension forward. In fact, it provides incentives for an economist not to fall into a VRS; a generic, pay-as-you-go or previously paid-out scheme. With this scheme, workers who have been robbed by the shock-by-shock increase in the AOW age are given the opportunity to stop working earlier if agreements are made on this subject in the collective agreement. That is an extremely important appointment from the pension agreement. It was particularly important for the trade union movement and has taken a great deal of account in the overall picture. It is a temporary measure, Mr Kox said it, Mr Crone said it for four years, also because the trade union movement itself has indicated that it wants to look for alternatives, precisely in order to be able to implement this in a more structural way. I'll get to the question in 45 years. As I said, we have allocated EUR 1 billion to the social partners for the same four years, to promote sustainable employability and also to solve the financial bottlenecks. The subsidy scheme will be published as soon as this legislative proposal enters into force, so that the social partners and sectors can also work on this issue. There are already a number of collective agreements on this subject. They have already been mentioned in the first period. My expectation is that many more sectors will be added if the subsidy scheme is also available. It will take effect on 1 July, with retroactive effect from 1 January, so that it will also be available from 1 January for those sectors that need it. For the RVU, the most important point for your Chamber, is my estimation, the execution by the pension funds. In the written set, I replied to that. I would like to do this in detail, because this requires care. In the Pension Act, early retirement schemes are not considered to be pensions. This is even explicitly included in Article 2 (4) of the Pension Act. In addition, the Pension Act bans ancillary activities for pension funds, in line with the IORP Directive, the European Pension Directive. Only secondary activities which can be considered as pension-related activities are excluded. An important argument for this ban on secondary activities is the prevention of unfair competition vis-à-vis other market players who wish to implement it. This has to do with free accession, free choice and competition. We have to be careful about this, because if there is unfair competition, it can also be an argument that puts pressure on compulsory pricing. That is why we are always very careful to deal with it too smoothly. Otherwise, pension funds will go into an area that should actually be reserved for other market players. There are two further arguments. Two criteria are important in defining what pension funds do and do not do. One is the collectivity, a collective scheme for many participants at the same time. The second criterion is solidarity, so that there is something about risk-sharing and risk-sharing, so that you have an argument to say: this is still part of a collective pension scheme. However, with this RVU there is no question of collectivity, because the group entitled to this is paid by the employer, three years before the AOW date, with the gross AOW, I'll say. There is no risk solidarity between the participants. The second argument is that there is also no solidarity between participants. That's not in this arrangement. It is only an administrative implementation of a scheme which the employer and the employee agree with each other. This can be done in a collective agreement, at sectoral level. Among other things, I believe that Mr Crone said that, for example, he is going to implement this arrangement for construction. But there is no question of collectivity and there is no question of solidarity between us. This means that this is not qualified as a performance of pension tasks. And then I come back to the legal risk and an article in the Pension Act on the prohibition of secondary activities. That's our analysis of why we can't. It is often quoted in this discussion that it was possible to do so at the VTE. That's right, you could've done it at the VFS. Mr Crone mentioned it for a while. In fact, the Pension Act allowed pension funds to carry out the VRS, provided that the implementation was housed in a separate legal entity, thus being separated from the fund and incorporated into a separate legal entity. But for the VRS, it was justifiable, also in this context, as the VRS did have elements of solidarity. Those were also pay-as-you-go elements, i.e. financing by active participants, and that was also collectivity, because the workers paid for the early retirement of the VRS. And that is not the case in this bill and in this implementation. The third point, Mr Crone. What we have seen so far is that various sectors have already made a collective agreement and have already rigged up an RVU scheme, and they want to implement it. I have not yet received any signals that there are pension funds that are not allowed to carry out this. Or let me rephrase: that there is a problem. I have not received any signals that this is a bottleneck in practice. I'm deliberately taking the time to answer this extensively. A combination of these three arguments strengthens me in the belief that you should not do this. The fact that pension funds are not allowed to carry out RVU does not mean that employers are required to implement the RVU scheme in their own right. This is also an important point to underline because employers and social partners can jointly invest management with another third party or with their own pension implementing body. As an example, I call bpfBUILD and APG. As a result, it is often well soluble in practice. The combination of these considerations, also in view of the legal risk and in the context of the Pension Act, has given me the choice of saying that this cannot be carried out by the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u163	I am pleased with this extensive exposé, because it must be clear what is going on. With all due respect, I say this: put two economists together and you have three views, put two lawyers together and you have four. It's not just about what you think, it's about what you want to solve. I understand that this is not the world problem in execution. You yourself started the debate with the words: I put these three things into one bill, because they are all about retirement. You have literally said: the RVU is based on part of the income for the pension, the pre-retirement. At least, it's combined. Before you can take the RVU, you need to know when you're going to retire and how much you'll get. So it's a thousand times more about retirement. Legally, you might say, no, it's not a pension. That wasn't the Vulture either. But probably everyone will not call this RVU, but VERY. "I'm getting a heavy-duty job." So that's not a legal language, but it's common human language. That should help sometime. I think that a number of collective agreements are by definition a collectivity. If you arrange in the collective agreement what the collectivity pays from the wage room, you can divide it so that the individual employer pays it and not a fund. I just want to say that it's as long and as wide as it is. Why do you side with "no" instead of "we'll see"? It is literally stated in the law: the pension fund may only carry out activities related to pension and related activities. I have mentioned a number of these links, but you had more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u164	I have just argued in detail what are the two criteria that constitute the legal basis of what would be a side-activity. This has to do with collectivity and with mutual solidarity. Both elements are not in the RVU proposal. The RVU can of course also be carried out by the individual employer to pay the AOW gross from three years before entry into force. It's not a vulture. It's not a collective early retirement scheme. We have chosen this route, so that the incentive still goes well that all parties have to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u165	How do you say it again? It eats pizza and ice cream, it's brown and it's in southern Europe, but it's not Italian?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u166	I think Mr Crone is too easy about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u167	I don't mean it derogatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u168	I think Mr Crone is too easy about this. The moment a market player says 'this is in breach of the Pension Act and the rules on freedom of movement' and I cannot clearly argue why it really is an inseparable part of a pension, then I will go to court later. I then apparently made it possible, while Article 2 (4) of the Pension Act says: it is not allowed; it is a no, unless. There are also a number of conditions in terms of collectivity and mutual solidarity. This just doesn't fit. Well, that makes it complicated for me. Mrs. Oomen also has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u169	I would ask the Minister to look again at Article 116 of the Pension Act. Article 116 states that there should be no secondary activities. You can decide for yourself whether it is a secondary activity and whether it has anything to do with retirement, because it is clearly defined there. That's one. And two: I would agree with the Minister if I had asked here to have it carried out solely by pension funds. I didn't ask. What I asked the Minister is: let the social partners judge how they would like to implement it. That is the only question. And also because of the information to be provided, it is best to do so at least in some cases it might be better to have pension funds do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u170	I find that my legal argument is not convincing. I'm not a lawyer and I find that complicated. I'm gonna offer you an intermediate solution. I also know that Professor Lutjens, in Pension Pro, wrote a piece that could be done on the one hand. There has also been contact with Mr Lutjens and he understands some of our arguments. But let me promise that I will put these arguments on paper and see how the experts look at them and that I share that with your Chamber. I also find it uncomfortable, despite all the negative legal advice, to say: let's do it. Is that a good gesture on my part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u171	Mr. Crone, please be in the microphone. If you call anything in the room, the Department of Reports and Editorial will not be able to pick it up. And that would be a shame, because then the offspring can't read it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u172	Mr President, on that gesture. I like it. Then we can see if that letter convinces us, or else we'll talk to the minister. I think that is a very elegant attempt to make it clear to the field as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u173	To get rid of all kinds of ideological smells: there is no ideology, I think. It is more about the interpretation of current laws and regulations and the prohibition of secondary activities. But I'm gonna do that nicely. Then I'll send you a letter and then we'll talk about it. Perhaps in the same session Mr Van Rooijen requested. Then we're gonna do a whole session on pensions. I like that, too. If only that were the case, Mr. President! Mrs Moonen asked about the convergence with sustainable employability. The EUR 1 billion subsidy is a very large component of how we ensure that people are able to reach the retirement age in a healthy way. That is a very important part of the subsidy scheme. Not just: how do we stop working sooner? But also: how do we ensure that there are opportunities in sectors and companies to reach a healthy retirement age? That is a very valid subject and an important one. Several speakers have then asked Mr Van Gurp, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Kox, what it is going to be structural and what we are going to do in the long term. It's true, I promised the investigation into 45 years of service for last year's Christmas. I'm afraid that didn't work out. It's almost finished. That also has to do with a slight delay. The social partners are closely involved in this and I expect to send a report to your Chamber this month, in January. We are therefore in agreement with the social partners on their interpretation. The only warning is that, as I have said before, it is a very complicated subject, because, of course, we have no record of working life for many people. That also makes this subject very difficult to implement. We have only had this registration since 1998, I say, out of my mind, and that makes it very difficult in practice. Then you have to make assumptions for the period before, and that is, of course, very vulnerable to improper use or you should formulate it. How does this work out in practice? That was a question from Mrs Moonen, but also from Mr Crone on collective bargaining practice. There are now four collective agreements with agreements on the RVU. These are construction and infra, the dismantling, the cleaning and the police. They will enter on 1 January 2021. This can be done with the retroactive effect of the bill. There are currently 47 sectors negotiating this possibility with each other. For a very wide range of sectors and collective agreements this is currently being discussed. I believe that the combination of this bill and the subsidy scheme are two very important elements in order to make a choice in these sectors. A motion by Mr Gijs van Dijk van de PvdA and Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks was adopted in the House of Representatives. In the spring of 2021, I will have a rapid inventory of where agreements are now being made and where there are still problems, let me put it this way, also in the context of Mrs Moonen's question. I'll send that to your room, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u174	That is indeed an important point for D66. It is good to hear the Minister say that so many tables, more than 40, are now being negotiated to reach a collective agreement. We can take a positive look at that. But my question was indeed aimed at the following. Let's say you're a truck driver and you have a relatively heavy occupation. And suppose, your sector just didn't succeed in getting there. Then what are your options for making use of that RVU after all? To what extent...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u175	Mr Crone said that in my view, too, a bit in his interruption; in the end, of course, we have the freedom to negotiate here. The central employers' parties and the central trade unions have said that they think this is a good deal, a good deal, but it is up to sectors to implement it, just at the collective bargaining table and in the negotiations that are taking place. And it's going well in a lot of sectors. At 50, 51 collective agreements this is on the table. And, of course, agreements have already been made on this in a number of exemplary sectors, such as police and construction. But I cannot enter into the negotiating freedom of the parties. Social partners would also be very upset if I did, and rightly so. An inventory is important, because if there are bottlenecks, and if there are bottlenecks that show that it really is not possible in practice, we can always see whether we can move forward with pushing or pulling or hugging. The chairman looks very disturbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u176	This doesn't sound coronaproof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u177	That's true, but I'm also talking about the summer of 2021. I hope we can do it again. We need to see whether we can take steps forward in this way, considering whether agreements can still be reached in these sectors. So first, the social partners are called upon to implement their own commitments to the pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u178	I share the view that the social partners are first and foremost involved. And I understand the Minister says he's holding a finger on the wrist. So if people are gonna fall off the boat, the minister's gonna go over the course of next year...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u179	This is what we are doing in the spring of this year. And I will send a copy to your Chamber of the motion by Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders to show what sectors these agreements have been made and what kind of agreements they are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u180	I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u181	Mr Van Rooijen asks: why is the threshold exemption in the RVU so low? She's grafted on the gross AOW amount. This has happened from the thought that you are, as it were, pulling your AOW forward, just as simply put. It's gross because, of course, you just have to pay taxes and contributions. That level has been chosen for the exemption of the RVU tax, so that you can also fulfil that joint responsibility of employee and employer with such an RVU scheme. The agreement between the collective bargaining parties can also be made that it is not three years, but two years. For example, if the employer says that he only wants to pay for two years, that can also be an interpretation at collective agreement level of this scheme. There is a possibility of three years for the gross AOW amount. We are also doing this because we do not want to see all kinds of generic exit schemes that contain the wrong incentives, which will bring people back to work sooner, when we actually need everyone, also in order to keep our collective provision up to date towards the future. So that's the balance we've found with this. Mr Kox asked how many people are going to use this. We expect around 10,000 employees to make use of this every year. This is a gross assessment. But once again, I am going to take stock of how much use is being made of this motion by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. That is also what I will take with me in that letter to the House of Representatives, and with it to you. There's an omission in the sample calculations. Some of you have said the same thing. I'd like to mention that. There is an example calculation of bespoke people with different income about retirement. In the examples in which an AOW beneficiary retires on 1 December, a small omission has crept. That's about the income-dependent contribution Zvw. It is too high in these examples. Because when someone retires in December, the maximum basis for the income-dependent contribution is about €5,000. And the maximum contribution will be around €300. The examples show higher contributions. I think it would be a good idea to give that to you for the sake of completeness. Mr. Chairman. I come to the third part of the bill, which is to save leave. This was a part of the trade union movement that was really on the table in the negotiations, particularly in the security sectors. The police are a very well-known example where there are those opportunities to save leave. Those possibilities are now actually being extended from 50 weeks to 100 weeks, so as to be able to implement this earlier retirement scheme. Mr Crone, as well as Mrs Oomen, asked how many people are really going to be able to do that. At the moment, the limit for tax savings is 50 weeks. The doubling to 100 weeks simply gives more possibilities. Social partners can make agreements at the collective bargaining table, for example in the case of overtime, which is practice of shiftwork or special working time arrangements, to allow part of the remuneration to be paid through additional leave. This happens in a way of speaking fifty-fifty, so that you, as it were, save through this holiday savings scheme. In addition, employees can also save on over-statutory leave, i.e. not on legal leave. This possibility exists for the social partners to implement these arrangements at collective agreement level. Mrs Oomen asked in the context of taxation whether there are any time limits which would result in the expiry of those days. That's right. The statutory twenty days of leave shall expire within a specified period. But the super-statutory holidays can be saved longer if three-quarters of the mandatory law is agreed at collective agreement level, so that you can add to this holiday savings scheme. It is expected that the social partners who have such arrangements will also make use of this in the working conditions consultation. Once again, they have asked themselves for this, because they themselves see that this is an opportunity to implement it, if they cannot put that option into practice because of the tax restriction of 50 weeks. That really is a gesture to the trade unions and those sectors that want it very much. And so there is a distinction between legal and super-statutory. Mr Kox spoke about the 45 years of service, for which a temporary solution had been found for four years, so that discussions could be held again to see if alternatives could emerge. Again, I think it's very complex, but I will soon share that conclusion with you. Then it is up to the negotiating parties to think about a more structural solution, if necessary. I therefore hope and expect that this money will be made available for sustainable employability and that things will change in the workplace, including in collective agreements, on how to ensure that people can reach the age of AOW healthy and not be written off prematurely and not invest in people at an early stage, so that they will indeed be able to reach the age of AOW. Apart from that, I believe that this discussion about heavy professions will always remain with us. That's part of the reality. But it is up to the social partners and my successor and his successor to agree on this. Mr. Chairman. These were, in my opinion, the questions asked, unless I missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u182	Thank you, Minister. Then I would like to look around and suggest that we start with the second term of the Chamber. I will have to suspend it around 6.30 p.m., in connection with a committee meeting, among other things, EZK/LNV, where some of the spokesmen present here will want to be present. Then there will have to be time for those spokesmen for a dinner break, so I will suspend between 6.30 p.m. and 7.25 p.m. anyway. But we can see how far we'll get before then. I shall begin by looking at Mr Van Gurp's opportunity to make his contribution in the second term. Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u183	I like to keep up with it a little bit, so I like this. I'm glad we can get on with it right away. Mr. Chairman. I always enjoy debating with this minister. It is about content, it is about knowledge, and when I look a little over the debate, much of it has also been about balancing. Whether you find the balance right, of course it has to do with your starting position. Assessing the established balance from your starting position is the core of politics, if you look a little over it. I therefore welcome the fact that most of the debate was on this subject. If I make this more concrete as a result of the discussion we had, it was mainly about two balances. One was the question of whether the three different proposals are linked in such a way that they belong together or whether two belong together and the other is not. I hear the argument. Mrs Moonen has also made a brave attempt. I have to say quite frankly, I haven't gotten very convinced of it. In my opinion, a balance has been sought between sweet and sour. That is, of course, a tried and tested political concept. I do have some questions about this tried and tested political concept, given the supervisory and co-legislative role of the Chamber. In fact, I liked the most part of the debate that the Minister said: if I had known all that, I would have asked myself whether I should have done so. Then I think: good, because then you will learn it in the future. If we can stick to that, another lesson has been learned. The second balance that I found interesting is about liberalism and paternalism. Mr. Van Ballekom spoke captivating words about that. He said liberalism is not an infectious disease. No, it's not a disease, at least it's not contagious. I'm immune, let me put it this way. But even more so, as long as you do not apply liberalism to social relations, I find it a very pleasant attitude to life. As soon as you do, we're gonna have a big debate. I am therefore looking at how this balance between liberalism and paternalism has been struck, particularly of course at that sum at once. I listened with interest to the Minister's argument about this. He answered that very accurately. He gave us five points and said: there we have too much liberalism, and so we have limited it, and so we have limited it, and so we have limited it. That's right. Then, of course, there is the next question, because I am also annoying: if you need so many seat belts to keep it intact, why do you want it? And who is it good for? I admit that's also a matter of where you're going to stand. If you start from the liberal point of view, you say: it's actually less than I want, but at least there's something left of it. If you start from my point of view, which actually always starts with solidarity for the people who have been the least affected in society, then you say: we do need a lot of horns and bells to prevent it from becoming too harmful, so let's not do it. I think that is a healthy political debate. I also understand that you have something to do with each other. That brings me to the end of what I want to say in my second term. I have two things to say about the content. In the meantime, you have made a commitment to look very closely at the implementation of the RVU and at least not to impose unnecessary barriers. I understood that from the debate with Mr Crone and Mrs Oomen on this and I think that is an excellent line. The essence of the debate is that sum at once. I feel like we're approaching each other. At least postpone it for a year. Go talk to the implementation organisations and come back with a supported proposal. Then talk to us about it again and take a good look at it in terms of content. In order to be sure that we mean the same thing, it could be nice or just useful if a motion is tabled from the Chamber. I know that Mrs Oomen has looked at this in conjunction with Mr Crone and others of us. When that motion comes, I'll be happy to co-sign it. In view of the debate, I expect the Minister to take a positive attitude towards that. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u184	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u185	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much to the Minister. As Mr Van Gurp said, you are indeed always open and transparent. You'll have a quick debate. That's almost disarming, but of course I still have some. That's good, too. In all seriousness: I am not fundamentally opposed to freedom of choice, but it is always a discussion trick not of yours, but in general, to say: we are in favour of freedom of choice. This is also the case in the CPB survey you mentioned: who wants to have a choice to take up a one-time pension? Everyone will say yes, of course, but then they were asked under what conditions. That's where things go wrong all the time. I'm an economist. I did Schumpeter. So I'm totally in favour of market forces, because otherwise you'll never get renewal. But it must be true, because we are against monopolies. That is why I do not think that pension funds should be allowed to do everything, because they already have a kind of quasi-monopoly. But, of course, we have also learned that the goal is more important than the means. But I will come back to that later; first about the freedom of choice. Choosing stress can also occur. There have been countless investigations. Put eight jars of jam on sale at the supermarket. People don't take anything. If you put three on the market, people will think, "I'll take one too." People just have to be limited in their choice. That is true freedom of choice, Mr Van Ballekom, instead of: everything must be possible. That is also the case here. So I'm glad you were talking about the do-it-yourself test, but all you did was give me a negative default: if people don't do something, they'll keep their old pension. That's true, but I also want to have a test in the sense of: if you're going to do this, can people understand? Or are these, shall I say, too many jam jars? Is it too complicated? That is what I mean in all seriousness, because we all know about the non-literacy and the complexity. Soon you'll get that it won't be a choice behavior, but herd behavior. People think, "Oh, I hear it from the neighbors; everybody suddenly has this kind of benefit." Your partner might also say: do we, too, so we can buy something nice? I'd like to avoid that herd behavior. That is very difficult, because people are not liberal individuals. People aren't rational, they're relational. That's a thinker, isn't it? People are relational. If everyone goes to winter sports, I want to, but if nobody does, I don't want to. That's a philosophical remark. I don't have enough time for that right now, but that's a deep one, isn't it? People are relational. Then it will not be so easy for a lot of people to solve this in the context of a capacity for action. I would therefore like to ask for a separate debate on this subject, particularly in the context of this type of subject matter. And then I'm more liberal than most. Then you have real freedom of choice instead of false choice, where people start acting like a herd. Frankly, I am not opposed to freedom of choice, but I am concerned about making it clearer and better in this context. And then you said that people in a mortgage don't have to have mandatory advice. At the bank you also have to fill out if you have enough expertise. Then you have to answer 20 questions or you have to have an advisor. This is not required by law, but the market requires it, because the market does not want to run risks with its mortgages. I would also like to take that into account in that comparison. There's gonna be an AMvB, and I'm happy about that. Then we're gonna run these things a little deeper. Is this sufficiently honest information so that people can make a fair choice instead of saying afterwards: had I not done what the neighbour does, because I have a different financial situation? Then let's talk about the risk selection. You say you've limited it tremendously, because there's only one time you get to choose. Yeah, it could've been a lot worse. I know that in your circle and at the VVD it is said that you should actually be able to withdraw your pension at 63 years, because it is your pot and you should do it if you want to. Or maybe not until you're 69. I agree with you that things could have been much worse. But it remains so that certainly with medical science that point I had forgotten in the first term is becoming more predictable how long people are still alive. It's too late for me, but then you can ask for a medical certificate. Perhaps we could ask our President, the doctor. If I live less than 17 years, according to that certificate, it's apple egg. But I mean seriously: that risk selection is in it. I do like the fact that we all seem to have the same payoff rate for women. They live longer, so we're happy to pay the women as men. It is, after all, a system of solidarity. Well, that's nice, isn't it? That remains my two anchor points. One thing is that it's moving too fast, but you've already promised. Then let's look at all the modalities, but that's how you are by nature. We are not going to do the whole discussion again, but if something is a problem, with a good solution, then I will give you all the freedom to make it better and simpler, both the modalities and a good communication strategy. I can be brief about the RVU. 47 sectors, that's great. It's going well swan-stick-on. There too, herd behavior applies. If you're working in a sector where it's not, you're thinking, "I'm going to that sector where it is." That is positive competition in the labour market, that you need to do your working conditions a bit right. I welcome the legal letter, but I would say that it goes through the collective agreement. You said that there are two demands: it must be collective and solidarity. What's the abbreviation "cao" for? Collective contract of employment. The principle of this scheme is that it comes from the pay area. That's what I've been through in union meetings. If you got a paycheck for something through the members' meeting, it was to help the old folks, the FAT. There is therefore at least implicit solidarity in it, because that is why you do it as a collective agreement. But I told you, the fourth attorney, that's me... I'd like to look forward to that letter, but I wouldn't want to see any unnecessary restriction. My Schumpeter question is whether there are any market players who want to do this, because it is not such a lucrative job. Then what's gonna happen? I would say that it comes from the collective, from the solidarity of the wage area. That is why it is quite conceivable that this is simply an acceptable side-function of pension funds if there are people on the doorstep, but I do not think they have yet come forward from the market. That only gives us more arguments to send us a good letter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u186	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u187	I'm gonna cough, too. Yes, Mr President, we have more in common than some people here in this Chamber sometimes think. The Minister has offered, or says he is prepared to hold, an oral discussion on the letter of 16 December on the transition and the transition to the new system. I think it would be good to ask the Minister to send that letter, because it did come to the Lower House, to the Upper Chamber as well. This may have happened, but at least this was a letter to the House of Representatives of 16 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u188	The Minister may respond to this in his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u189	Yes. I assume that the members of the Social Affairs Committee will be happy to take advantage of the Minister's offer, which he has already made twice. Mr. Chairman. In the letter of 16 December to which I referred, the Minister talks about massive reductions in pensions which he does not consider desirable. He also wrote that, on the basis of the regular FK for a large number of pension funds, the current coverage rate should take into account, for example, substantial discounts of 15%. Those threatening 15% reductions were for large groups and are the reason why I put my group's great concerns on the table in this debate. Reductions due to low interest rates are on the agenda of 3 million pensioners and 7 million workers every day. They must fear the worst at the end of this year, at the end of the coming years until 2026, and when entering. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to refer to the interview of the President of the Koepel Pensioners, my successor Van der Spek, in yesterday's Algemeen Dagblad, 11 January, in which he says briefly and clearly: remove the strict rules of the ftk directly from the table. Finally, I would like to refer to the letter from the 60 prominent people and the motion that I tabled last year on the basis of that letter. We welcome the Minister's commitment that the pension proposal should come into force one year later, and that is only then on 1 January 2023. We will support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u190	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u191	Mr. Chairman. Most of the questions and the main critical points were about the benefit all of a sudden. I would like to add a few more things. Look at the benefit from the perspective of the person who can suddenly get a lot of money. The people with the smallest pension could still get about €10,000. And then the Minister says: a voluntary choice. I agree with the Minister. I also remember, however, that in Britain, the UK in the 1980s under Mrs Thatcher, they released the buy-back. People were allowed to buy off their pension even before they retired.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u192	Fully?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u193	That was free, they were allowed. They got it. And what did you see after that? That there are a lot of fun 60s riding around with a beautiful sports car. And the moment there was really supposed to be a pension, there wasn't any more. We haven't made that choice now. We're only giving 10% now. I would have preferred it if, for example, you had deposited it in the house and so on, et cetera, et cetera. Anyway, we're gonna take this choice. But "volunteership," the minister says. So you could get that kind of money. Then you get the opportunity to choose for yourself. So how are you gonna choose for yourself? What if I took a fund like that for the cleaning business? A cleaner with a language level of A2 must then be able to make choices himself. I think that's a very difficult one. That is also why I say: prevent people from facing up to the fact that they will not be able to get any more bonuses or to pay back anything and they have not properly realised that they are going to have so many more attacks. I'll come forward with that in a motion later. So choosing well is important, but take away what can get them into trouble. Then there is the question of design and the problems of feasibility. The Minister made a number of commitments. I shall come back to that immediately on a motion of censure. My next point concerns the RVU. If I have understood correctly, and I think that Mr Kox has also listened carefully, the government comes at once with the introduction of that amount. She will then come with it on 1 July, Mr. Kox, and that would apply retroactively from 1 January. Right? No? Oh, I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u194	What you are saying is not included in the Acts, Minister. So you must repeat what the Minister says, Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u195	It is about sustainable employability, which will start on 1 July. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, then I guess I misunderstood. I welcome the commitment to the ban on secondary activities, in which the Minister will look at this issue together with experts and so on. I think that the expert will then give the answer given by Mr Crone to collectivity, namely that this could possibly also play a role. Well, then save some leave. If all the barriers have indeed been removed, I have no problem with that, but of course it remains very problematic if you cannot put in the first 50 days of leave. Then we have another motion and we are submitting it because we want to have a record of how we are going to assess the whole bill in due course. If I'm right, I'm gonna have to read it to you myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u196	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u197	Yes. The: Mr Oomen-Ruijten, Mr Crone, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Gurp, Mr Kox and Mr Van Pareren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the implementation of the right of option to a one-off benefit may lead to different complex situations, such as, for example, the co-operation with tax schemes and rent and care allowances;]] [[Notes that, in the case of the redemption of small pensions, the amounts of benefits are not included in the rent allowance;]] [[Notes that a second letter of amendment introduced a single payment variant which prevents the implementation of this part of the law in terms of implementation and communication to the participant;]] [[Notes that the one-off payment scheme for exporters already involves high costs and that the second letter of amendment leads to significantly higher costs;]] [[Notes that a prerequisite for good communication and the fulfilment of the duty of care is the need to clarify the advantages and disadvantages of the right of choice;]] [[calls on the Government to specify the modalities of the right of choice and, in order to avoid undesirable effects, to adjust the arrangements where necessary, such as by excluding the lump sum amount from the rent payment;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the introduction of the sum at once until 2023 in order to find, in the meantime, an alternative implementation that is less complex and more communicatable, has substantially lower implementation costs and has the support of the implementing organisations, and to inform the two Chambers on the establishment of the KB;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35555-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u198	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group thanks the Minister for the clear answers. You will find that he has a lot of expertise in terms of content, but also with a sense of people speaking on this issue. That is also important to us. For example, when he talks about sustainable employability, you will notice that this minister thinks that this is an important issue and that it is about people who are able to make it to the end in a healthy way. The Minister has made an important gesture and has met the Chamber in order to resolve the problems that may be expected in the implementation of the Law amount at once. He wants this law to be introduced a year later so that the implementation problems can be solved, and that is also important for D66. The information to participants can be improved so that the participants can prepare themselves for the Law amount at once. This is an important commitment for the D66 Group. The Minister has also indicated that the obligation of a warning by pension administrators is laid down in an AMvB. This is not a non-binding issue, and it also enables monitoring to be carried out. This is important for the participants to be able to prepare themselves properly. In this sense, we also find the calculation tools that are automatically referred to very helpful. The D66 Group supports the line that the social partners are primarily responsible for the implementation of the RVU. This is precisely why customization is possible. I also mentioned this in my speech. Because every sector and every profession is different, it is a good thing that responsibility lies with the social partners. It is gratifying that 47 more professions and sectors are now in the process of reaching a collective agreement. We also see that from D66 with a lot of confidence. The Minister's commitment to an inventory of collective agreements in spring 2021 and whether they are well established everywhere, so that people with a heavy occupation can actually stop working sooner, is also important for D66. That fits very well with my practice case of the truck driver, because we are talking about people here. With this, he has given sufficient indication of how we will be reported on this in the spring if there is a problem somewhere in a sector. That's a very good thing. In short, the D66 Group is very pleased with this response and is confident that all the problems in implementation will be resolved, precisely because this minister has a very good relationship with the implementing agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u199	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u200	Mr President, thank you very much and also thank you to the Minister with whom it is usually very pleasant to discuss things. He is a pragmatic liberal and I like to count myself on the side of the practical socialists; it is always a pleasure to hear something from a debate. That's what happened. My last sentence was: the more the minister offers, the happier we get. I believe that the Minister has listened carefully and is not difficult on a number of issues. When we talk about the amount at once, he comes with a postponement and in that year the Minister will see what he can do to improve implementation wherever possible. My name is under the motion that Ria Oomen has just tabled on behalf of a large number of political groups. I assume that the Minister will embrace it in support of the postponement plan he has announced. I am also pleased that he will be coming to the Chamber to discuss whether you should exclude pension funds in advance or whether there is room for that. That's what we're looking at. I agree with the Minister: by saying that it can all be done, it cannot yet be done. We are dealing here with a European Union. It's not easy. I don't like it very much, but we're dealing with it. That too is practically socialism. With the SP the flag does not go out for that sum all at once and for several groups it would not have been necessary. But it's a fact now, so we're gonna do it and preferably as best we can. If this law can already be adopted today and the Minister can publish his grant schemes, he expects that there will be more speed in the various sectors to agree on arrangements. He will take stock of this in spring on the basis of a commitment he has already made in the Lower House. That's very important. I think maybe ten thousand people a year are going to take advantage of it. We'll probably know more in spring. The Minister has also said that this month is a month too late, but well, that is doubly the report on stopping comes after 45 years of work. I understand from the Minister that this is all extremely complex, but yes, politicians who complain about complexity simply have to look for another profession. Finally, about saving leave. The Minister replied well, with the exception of one thing, namely the underlying problem. People who work for the police and can't take their leave. In all simplicity, that's actually just a disgrace. We're gonna have to do something about that. I hope that we will continue to do so in the future, because it is good that this is a second best solution, but as a co-responsible parliamentarians, I am actually ashamed of our government, because we are not giving the people who work hard for us the chance to go on leave. As closure, Mr. Chairman. It is nice that the Minister is doing an encore towards Martin van Rooijen and the Chamber says that he would also like to discuss the issue of pensions on an oral basis. Mr Van Rooijen is quite right: it is something that concerns so many people and is important to so many people. We must never forget that. Thank you. My group will vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u201	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Finally, Mr Van Ballekom, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u202	Mr. Chairman. I would like to offer Mr Van Gurp volgaarne a trial subscription from my party so that he can experience in person how fun and how beautiful liberalism is. I would like to come back to the combination of AOW bridging arrangement and a lump sum benefit. The Minister replied that combining is not possible. Nor is that possible for the high-low scheme. However, he did not say why. I assume he thinks or thinks it gives too much freedom. If that is the case, I can imagine, but my question was whether that would suddenly limit the attractiveness of the benefit. I would like an answer to that in the second term. According to Mr Crone, anything is possible according to the VVD. I don't think so. I think this is the right balance. It could have been more individualistic for me, but okay, we choose this balance. My group agrees with that. The government can't protect everything and everyone, it can't. The government can't do everything. She proves that every day, unfortunately. In relational discussions I would not want to interfere as a party at all. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply, his commitments and his flexibility. My group believes that this is more than sufficient. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u203	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Let's have a domestic announcement. We're going to suspend now. Firstly, because some of you have a committee meeting. The suspension is until 7:25 p.m., including the dinner break for those members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u204	I can respond immediately, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u205	Yes, but a committee meeting will begin in two minutes for members Van Ballekom, Crone, Van Gurp and Van Rooijen. It lasts until 7:00. Then we'll have to get these guys to dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u206	I don't need to be at that meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u207	Can I ask you a question? I think there's only one or two questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u208	No, Mrs. Moonen. I'm gonna have a word. I understand that Mr Van Ballekom, Mr Crone, Mr Van Gurp, Mrs Huizinga and Mr Van Rooijen will refrain from attending the committee meeting. Is that right? You do have the right to go there. In that case, if the Chamber so wishes, we can now continue with the government's second term. I shall then suspend, because the votes are far earlier than anticipated, to allow groups which are not there in reasonable terms to be here. The vote will then take place at 7.30 p.m., but we will decide on that later. Next Tuesday we shall then vote on Mrs Oomen's motion, I think. At least, if that's what I'm guessing. Is that right, Mrs. Oomen? Yes, that's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for the pleasant debate. It's totally mutual. It is always very nice to debate content here at a high level, I might add. Mr Van Gurp made a comment about the coherence of things, or the unconvincing coherence. I think this also has to do with the assessment of whether this is too much or too little liberal. There is one thing I must say: there is no exchange with solidarity. Within this design of the sum, as much actuarial neutrality as possible has been exercised. There's a small effect. The effect of this one moment of choice or recalculation is very limited, precisely in order to maintain the solidarity and collective character of the pension scheme. We didn't make any concessions in that. Apart from that, I think this is viewed politically differently. That's fair, too. We have tried to find a balance in this, also in the negotiations with the trade union movement about, among other things, the combination of high-layer with the maximum 10%. I'll be right back on the motion. Mr Crone made a number of points of principle in his second term. In itself, I agree with him, as economists among ourselves. I also think that choice stress is a phenomenon that we should be careful about. It shouldn't be so complex that it makes people unhappy. The intention is more freedom of choice and happiness from the liberal, optimistic world view, so that people can do nice things. That shouldn't turn into "Oh dear, I have to make a choice" or herd behavior. That's why it's important that we formulated the default in such a way that you don't have to do anything. You really need to take action to make use of this. There are also a number of safeguards, such as the 10%, to ensure that this does not go in the direction of Mrs Thatcher in the 1980s in the UK. I find it interesting to continue to think more from behavioral economics and science about the capacity and the nudges we use, and that sort of thing. The AMvB and the information we offer to participants can be an important part of that. How do you offer this so you can make a good choice? We caught that glove in the behavioral unit of the ministries of EZK, Finance and SZW. He'll think about it in a structural way. We do this not only with this kind of proposal, but also with letters from UWV and such topics. So don't worry. We really think a lot better about that than ten years ago. The remark that it could have been much worse is true. Unfortunately, this has not been possible for some elements. I'm telling you the truth. The legal letter on the collective elements and the question of whether pension funds are allowed to carry it out is to be welcomed. We're gonna consult some high-school lawyers on how to look at that. I agree with Mr Kox's remark that you have Union law, and that you certainly have a lot of lawsuits in this world. I've learned that as a minister in the last three years. The parties take each other to court to say that something is a market activity, not a pension fund activity. So we have to do this carefully, and we are going to do it neatly. I'm happy to keep that promise. Mr Van Rooijen. I thought that the letter of 16 December had also been sent to the First Chamber, because I think I signed it twice. But if it isn't, I'll send the letter anyway. I like to talk about this, really very much, because I also see a lot of Indian stories going around and there's also a lot of misinformation going around. So I think it is very important that we open this up. That is why I opened the consultation for eight weeks, so that everyone can respond. I attach great importance to this, because I simply think it is extremely important for people to be able to participate in the very complex and complex issue of pensions, but also to be involved and involved in the implementation of the change in the system. So Jaap van der Spek has spoken regularly in the past period. Not that this always leads to agreement, I am afraid that we do not agree with everyone, but I think it is very important that the sounds and input of all groups, young and old, are heard and taken away. That's what I'm gonna keep doing. That is the only way to successfully complete such a major system change. I'm really convinced of that. If that does not happen, something will be imposed from above and we will create a great deal of resistance. Apart from that, we are simply in a difficult situation, with a number of pension funds covering around 90%. The current review framework assumes that you have to sit at 104.3%. So if you didn't do anything and didn't have a pension agreement, you would have to cut that 15%. We have not done so, because we want to avoid unnecessary reductions in view of the new system. But again, I would like to talk to you about the new pension system very soon. Mrs Oomen had a number of points about the benefit at once. I hope that I have been able to reassure her on these points, including my commitment to deferment and consultation with the Pension Federation, the funds and insurers. I'll be on the motion in a minute. I shall also refer to the prohibition of secondary activities in the letter. I thank Mrs Moonen for her kind words. I very much agree with her on the broader implementation. Tonight I have another Council of Ministers on the report on childcare allowances. I'm working on the execution myself. That is one of the reasons why your Chamber has made a very serious assessment today of the delineation, feasibility and all these aspects, and it is with conviction that it will be possible to postpone that year, because I see that otherwise the pension administrators will be in trouble and I do not want to do so. Mr Kox is a pragmatic socialist. I always like to debate with him, as the pragmatic liberal I am. I hear now that Mr Crone is a market-socialist, which is interesting for the Acts. Mr Kox is critical of saving leave because he thinks people are being denied leave. I do not think that this is the reality and that a lot of people themselves indicate that they want to do so voluntarily and want to save voluntarily. At least that is how it came on this table through the trade union movement. Not: I don't have a choice, I'll do this with it. But really a voluntary choice. However, let us have this discussion on another subject, perhaps with Mr Grapperhaus. Mr Van Ballekom had another question about the combination of the AOW bridge and the benefit at once. The AOW bridge is a variant of high-layer. I made the deal with the social partners: either you choose high-low, or you choose the sum at once, but you can't choose both. In that sense, you are right that it is a restriction of freedom of choice. Also from PFZW questions have been asked about this specific design. But this is a deal I made, and I like to keep my end of the bargain. Part of this deal is not that you can do both high-layer and 10%, but that you have to choose one of the two. That's the choice that was made for this bill. Finally. Mrs Oomen has tabled an extensive and wide-ranging motion for a resolution. The motion was co-signed by Mr Crone, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Gurp, Mr Kox and Mr Van Pareren. I have indicated that I am prepared to postpone the date of entry into force by one year until 1 January 2023, which gives pension administrators more air and more time to carry out everything properly. I will also use this extra time to examine with pension administrators how adjustments are needed to improve feasibility. Pensioners have indicated that the time between the decision on the pension starting date and the moment of payment of the sum at once, and the benefit scheme by means of the second letter of amendment, make the feasibility too complex and therefore impossible. It will examine the solutions needed to reduce complexity, reduce implementation costs and make it easily communicatable to the participant. It is important, however, that I have also said this in my first term of office to consider and keep an eye on the legal possibilities, in particular on the issue of equal treatment. There's a difference of opinion on that. We're gonna map them together. We're gonna work it out with the pension planners. Also in view of the forthcoming system change, I think it is important that we take it together. It is not possible to do so within the current law. First, I'm going to inform the House of Representatives and your Chamber when an egg has been laid. Against this background, I'd like to give the motion judgment chamber. In this also the confirmation: I sent the letter to the First Chamber on 16 December. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for a pleasant debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u210	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-12-eerstekamer-6.u211	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case. Then the bill is accepted. Anybody want a note? That is not the case. Members, I'm still in a meeting. I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. I would like to thank all the Members and staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home. I'm closing the meeting.
