ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the appointment of three Members of Parliament as State Secretary in the Demissionary Cabinet. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members to make up to six comments or questions in the first period, to each other and also to the Prime Minister. Six seemed to me to be a good number, because it is an important debate and we also want to go a little deeper. I would also like to ask you to keep it brief and concise. Everyone has four minutes' speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP. She is the applicant for the debate. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Binnenhof, or the new business site or the half highway on which we are now located, but in any case the Hague bubble, has been completely under the spell of administrative culture and power and opposition power for some time now. The election of the President was about this. It was about what matters to us as House of Representatives and how we position ourselves. The many debates held with the outgoing cabinet were about the administrative culture. Does the government respect the Chamber? The first chance was one of old reflexes, namely using the Chamber as a foot sweep or as a stamping machine. A majority of the Chamber seemed to pass that. In the spirit of the Constitution, it is incompatible to be a Member of Parliament and a member of the Executive Board. It has been since 1938. The spirit of the Constitution has never changed. There's one exception. It is for a outgoing executive elected as a Member of Parliament. He will then have access to the office and will even be admitted to this House of Representatives. That's what a committee of this Chamber, the Committee for the Letters of Faith, does. At the moment you are a Member of Parliament and are given an incompatible position, your function expires according to Article x3 of the Election Act. Since the Election Board can only appoint someone if there is a vacancy, the President of the Chamber should at that time report that there is a vacancy. For that there is a Rules of Procedure. Article 2.2 shall ensure that this is done. Suddenly there was confusion: should it or should it not be? The spirit of the Constitution is very clear: it is not allowed. Advice has been requested from the Council of State. The Council of State says, "It can't be done, but it doesn't say it can't be done. It's very unwelcome and very unhappy. In the interpretation of the Constitution, you should also consider more things." The Council of State also states that it is ultimately up to the House of Representatives to give a ruling on this and to indicate the scope. So let's do that today. You're a member of parliament and you're not a ruler. They are two very responsible tasks, which you cannot do half. Let us settle that today, if the Constitution does not expressly exclude it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mrs Leijten is welcome in this debate. I think that will be partly justified. But I wonder how Mrs Leijten looks back on her own actions, or rather not dealing with her. Because what the Council of State writes is that things are constitutionally unfortunate. Then it is not just about what the cabinet and the coalition parties have done, but about what the Chamber has done. The Chamber did not mark and discuss this. That is a reason for Mrs Leijten to have some self-reflection, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	Sure. At the time when the first appointment was there, I do not think we have all sufficiently realised how this has stretched the Constitution. It would have been desirable if we had not been faced with the appointment at that time. I have a question for the Prime Minister about this in a moment. Looking back on this, would it not have been more tidy if the Prime Minister had asked the question whether an exception could have been made? Then we would have taken that opportunity. It would have been much better if I, Mr Sneller or anyone in this Chamber had said at that time: whoa, wait a minute, what about the Constitution? Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	I welcome this self-reflection, which I had not heard from the chairman of the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith in the term itself. During the whole month of June, no one came.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	The investigation committee...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Sneller finishes his sentence. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u9	I understand that Mrs Leijten wants to say that it is not about the formal review, but that any Member of Parliament who is merely a spokesman on a particular subject does not realize that something is going on here under state law and that Mrs Yeşilgöz is still a member of this Chamber. That's one. But the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith knows very well whether or not a new member has joined. Precisely Mrs Leijten knows that there is still a member of this Chamber who has been appointed Secretary of State. That's what I mean by that. Let me stress...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u11	I'm gonna do that, but I want everyone to talk out of it. A little patience, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u12	According to the Rules of Procedure, it is not the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith that has an enforcement role here, but the President. If I had had that task and had it passed in May, I would certainly have said that I should not have let that happen. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith has a role only in the admission of a member and not in enforcement. If you think we should get it, fine. But there isn't. It is with the President alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u13	After Mrs Leijten's state-law interpretations and her conclusions, I doubt very much whether I would like her to have that role extra. My point is that Mrs Leijten did not make a point of this in May, nor in June, when she should have known, like no other, that this double function existed. In July, she did not make a point of the announcement, and only in August, when Mr Van Houwelingen, for example, asked the President: how did you deal with the powers under Article 2.2 which Mrs Leijten refers to? The point I am referring to, Mrs Leijten, is that she herself paid attention to the first appointment and that we have all been there. Then it is not appropriate, at the end of the discussion, if it is suddenly brought to our attention by someone else in public, then to blow it from the highest tower?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u14	Which tower I'm blowing and whether it's high, that's what I'm really taking over. On the day it was announced by the outgoing cabinet, my vacation began. So I just missed that. The moment the installation was there, I was fresh back from vacation and I didn't miss it. That is when we asked Parliament questions. Those parliamentary questions were answered within 24 hours. So that can be answered in time, Chamber questions. Let's establish that, too. Mr Van Houwelingen then asked for Article 2.2. The President replied to that question within a weekend, after which I asked her on what basis. I am sorry that I had to ask another question. I think we are all faced here with a situation that was completely new, at a time when we were busy, that everything was going on. We should have pointed it out when Mrs Yeşilgöz was appointed, all of them. That's absolutely true. But in the end, I do not think that the government should have done this in this way. She should have said: I want to appoint someone from among you who is not defined in the Constitution, and it is not prohibited in the Constitution either, and how do we deal with this? That would have been nice. Now, given the fuss and the undesirableness of the Council of State, the three Secretary of State are doing what I should have asked for earlier and perhaps earlier. I think that's right, because you can't do both of those honorable functions one hundred percent. But we all shouldn't have been put in that position. There is only one person who has brought us into it, and that is ultimately the cabinet, which decided that this Secretary of State should initially appoint one, but then two more, and that it should remain a Member of Parliament. And there's someone else who has a enforcement role on double functions. That's not an individual MP. That's our primus inter pairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u15	Can I then put one last question to Mrs Leijten? We have proposed a number of hearings with candidate directors. The SP has stopped it so far. My question to Mrs Leijten is: does she think that, in order to mark more as a Chamber, a new ruler will arrive, whether he comes from among us or not, such a moment could be useful for the Chamber to consider? Is it prepared to give this support this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u16	To be quite honest, I do not know whether we have blocked it or not and what the reasons are. I think it is quite common to do so, also to look at interests, the past and agreements on lobby. I believe that we need to make far more agreements and listen much more closely to the agreements we have in Europe. If we have had other views on this in the past, I would like to see with Mr Sneller of D66 how we can change that and bring it to a majority. I don't know what the reasons were for that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u17	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u18	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because I was with you, either you're a Member of Parliament or you're a ruler. Let's at least agree to that today. That brings me to the question to the government: why did it do this? Has this been in contact with the President, with the Council of State, or could this be possible? Or has this been overlooked a little bit? Did we mess up a little bit? Maybe things got rustled? And then the answer to the parliamentary questions within 24 hours. It is very good to see that this is possible, but the Council of State says that it was not sufficiently thorough and that it has been very unfortunate. What exactly does the Prime Minister look back on that? And, Mr President, I also have questions to ask you: you have looked at the possibility of constitutionality, but it does not involve the standing of the Chamber, it is not involved in whether there were any interests of the Chamber in a broader sense. Can the Chamber, for example, exercise its supervisory function, given the eight outgoing directors who were already present and who are also MPs? How does it see in future the balance between the importance and the standing of the Chamber, even when it comes to the workload and something like a constitutional interpretation? I think it is good that we have the debate today, because it is very undesirable what has happened. Everyone agrees on that. I hope I never stand here like this again. In my opinion, the Council of State is also clear about the enforcement of our Constitution: it is up to the government and the House of Representatives, but when it comes to the House of Representatives, it is mainly up to the House of Representatives itself. We should be the first to be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. There is another interruption by Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u20	One last, more open question. The Council of State also says: an interesting discussion on Article 57 (3), but in fact the presence of those eight others, for such a long time, may be a bigger problem. My question to Mrs Leijten is what solutions she has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u21	I've been thinking about that. I don't think it's desirable. I'd say we're deleting that one exception. But then you'll have to deal with a lot of problems. Everyone in our society must be able to stand for election, including a outgoing executive. It's really fundamental if you were to ban it. You could say: then they should then choose. That might also be possible. But then you could not allow a debate to take place between the listers, especially in this house. I think it's okay if we think about that. I know that Mr Cedar of the Christian Union will make a proposal for this later. I will wholeheartedly support that. I certainly do not need to stop talking about it today, because everyone can see that it is uncomfortable. On the basis of the principle that everyone in this country can stand for election, I would not want to exclude ministers or missionary ministers, however much I may have fought them in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u22	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u23	In general, I fully agree with Mrs Leijten's plea. She also just spoke about Europe's anti-corruption watchdog, the GRECO. A number of years ago, the Netherlands was hard hit and made sixteen recommendations to improve our political integrity and the fight against corruption in the Netherlands. I wonder whether Mrs Leijten agrees with me that these 16 recommendations should be adopted and implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u24	Sure. For example, in the area of party financing, I have used the upcoming treatment of a law on party financing to table three amendments to that effect, to curb party financing, to make it more transparent and to maximize it. That is what I think we are going to discuss this autumn. When it comes to a ban on lobbying and that sort of thing, I think that this is the time when we should definitely take those steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. Our fundamental rights are being violated on the assembly line. Today, too, we are discussing a situation in which the Constitution was dismissed for convenience. Article 57 (2) is quite clear: the functions of State Secretary and Member of Parliament are incompatible. Article 75 (3) does, however, provide for an exception whereby a person who has made his post available may reconcile that post with the membership of the States-General. But Article 57 of our Constitution is therefore ready to go. Fortunately, the three secretaries of state finally saw the same thing about who this is about. There is therefore no need for a Constitutional amendment or further clarification in the case of BVNL. According to the Council of State, the article under discussion is more explanatory, but we all know that this is not the reason why the three were appointed Secretary of State. The boundaries have been deliberately searched, quietly in the recess, without informing the Chamber. And when it comes to jobs, nobody has a problem looking for the boundaries of the law. But when it comes to a problem like the premium affair or a lockdown, there is no room for coulance. The opportunist extension of the scope and spirit of Article 57 (3) is therefore totally undesirable to us. Professor Voermans is also clear about this. The Constitution has been violated and a constitutional change would be needed to allow appointments like what we are talking about here today in the future. As far as the interest of the Netherlands is concerned, the Constitution is sacred and clear enough. In this way, the Secretary of State and, at the same time, the Members of Parliament should not be allowed to remain in office. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is no need for a constitutional change. Moreover, the three secretaries of state for which this is the subject have already given up their seats. They did, but they seem to have realised that they were wrong, and that's good. This creates a useful precedent. As far as we are concerned, this error of interpretation has been corrected. So let's not waste any more time on this non-issue, while the Netherlands is succumbing to real problems, such as the corona measures, the nitrogen drama, mass immigration and the climate obsession. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u28	It is a pity that Mr Van Haga ended this way, because I just wanted to start by saying that I count my blessings that there is so much attention to a fundamental state-law debate. As far as I am concerned, this debate is not only about Article 57 (3) of the Constitution, but also about the broader perspective outlined by the Council of State. After the departure of three colleagues last week, there are still eight MPs who are members of the Cabinet beyond any doubt and within the constitutional limits. This, as the Council of State says, is raging more as cabinet formations last longer, especially if we want the balance of our system, which, as the government said during the constitutional review, is not purely monistic, but not purely dualistic, to move a little more towards the latter part. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the immediate cause for this debate. I share the analysis of the Council of State, but also of Professor Bovend'Eert and others, for example, that the route that has been followed in recent months was not contrary to the Constitution and was therefore allowed. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the Council of State's observation that the constitutional situation was unfortunate, partly because we in the Chamber did not conduct this debate in good time. We didn't do that in 1994, not in 2017, not in May of this year, not in June and not in July either. I would like to say what I also said to Mrs Leijten: if we had standard hearings with candidate directors, it would be much more likely that this would have happened. In any case, in recent weeks the debate on admissibility and desirability has been initiated by some professors. I have followed that discussion with interest and my conclusion is that it is desirable to amend paragraph 3 in order to conclude the route that has now been followed pragmatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u29	I now know why we were not in favour of hearings before. That also has a constitutional purpose. They have confidence until it expires. You don't have to do some kind of job interview for that. I would like to think along with Mr Sneller for the follow-up. Perhaps we can also change our positions for once. I have another question for Mr Sneller. He calls it a pragmatic route, but the list of the Council of States makes it very clear when this article has been amended. It has never really been adapted from the thought that as a Member of Parliament you can enter into a double function. That is always from the position of an elected outgoing executive and the question of how we deal with it. Does Mr Sneller recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u30	In my view, the fact that the constitutionalist did not foresee this situation is also what I said and what I do recognise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u31	No, no, no. The constitutionalist says it is an incompatible function; as a Member of Parliament, you cannot be a ruler. That's what he says. The Constitution has been amended twice, but always from the perspective of a ruler elected as a Member of Parliament and not from a Member of Parliament who became a member of parliament. Does Mr Sneller recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u32	No, my lecture is a different one. The Council of State writes, but also Professor Bovend'Eert told us yesterday that there is an exception for directors who have offered their resignation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u33	It doesn't say: there's an exception for a MP who enters a outgoing cabinet. That's the approach route. The spirit of the law is clear. An exception is made for a outgoing member of parliament. After all, anyone in the country can run for office. There is no provision in the Constitution in any way, either in this article of law or in the history of this article of law, which a Member of Parliament joins a cabinet. So it's not that it's not there, because it's never meant to be. That's why it never happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u34	It never happened. That's why I said it's not foreseen. The exception is intended for a member of the board who has resigned, who is outgoing. In my view, I have not yet heard any rebuttal of the fact that all directors who join the outgoing cabinet are therefore also outgoing. Otherwise, there would be missionary directors as well as missionary directors. The Council of State invites us to reflect on whether that should be arranged differently, but that is how it is. It is now also longer than a few cabinet periods the standing practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u35	This isn't a standing practice. This is a novum. This is new. This can be explained in many ways. There are constitutional experts who are cutting this off: this cannot be done, because this is about who is running for office and who can become a Member of Parliament. This is turned in a creative way to justify the easy appointment of three MPs in this outgoing cabinet. It is undesirable and contrary to the spirit and history of the bill. In fact, I find it very sad that you continue to embrace it. I don't really think it's possible either, because it's about how you're allowed in this Chamber as a Member of Parliament. Then you can't have a double function. The minute you're in here, you can't touch it. That must be the explanation of this constitutional article. Otherwise, we will be here tomorrow when someone replaces a member of the General Court, who, for example, takes sick leave or takes maternity leave. "That's temporary anyway, and it doesn't say it shouldn't be." No, it's undesirable. It's a command article. It's assuming you won't. Then there is no more than one exception, namely the exception for a outgoing ruler to make use of the right to stand for election.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u36	Firstly, it is not unique: in 1994 Aad Kosto and in 2017 Klaas Dijkhoff. That is no different in principle. I have not heard any rebuttal and Mrs Leijten does not do so in this interruption either. So I have not heard how that would be different at a basic level, because that also means a new post during a missionary cabinet while they were MPs. So I don't see why this would be a unique situation in that respect. Furthermore, Mrs Leijten and I simply have a fundamentally different reading of what is and is not allowed. Mrs Leijten here 'unwelcome' and 'unwelcome' to the Constitution' by pretending to be the same. So it's not. I did say that I also followed the debate on desirability and that I heard that discussion understand that it is undesirable. But then we'll have to take care of it legally. Unlike Mrs Leijten, I do not accept the premise that it is absolutely clear that it is against the Constitution. That is what the Council of State says, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u37	No, that's not what the Council of State says. Anyway, that's also creative dealing with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u38	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mrs Leijten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u40	It's an incompatible function, and why don't you take a look at that? You will be appointed as a temporary member of the General Court tomorrow because someone is on sick leave or on maternity leave. It doesn't say you can't. Should we then amend the Constitution, when we all know that it is incompatible in spirit? In the spirit! That's why that article is there and you don't. That's what it's all about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mrs Leijten knows better than I do whether there is a replacement scheme for sick members of the General Court. But I think there are two things that Mrs Leijten puts together that I would like to keep apart, namely 'can' and 'do'. Mrs Leijten says neither. I say that the Constitution allows it. That is exactly what the Council of State is saying. Both can be defended, so it is not contrary to the Constitution. Then the question is whether you want it. I think that is what I have also asked Mrs Leijten to do, given the silence in this Chamber the first time it happened and also the times before it, in a further past. That's why I called it "pragmatic." I think that the discussion that we have seen and had in recent weeks shows that this is not the case and that, now that the deepening and this case is in front of us, we must tell the constitutionalist that this needs to be better regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u42	I would like to say that Kosto and Dijkhoff were not MPs who came into a missionary cabinet. They were already in a outgoing cabinet and became Secretary of State. Just as Mrs Kaag was a Member of Parliament this summer and became Minister of Foreign Affairs for Foreign Trade. That really is something else than picking up someone from the middle of the House of Representatives and who can no longer have his job done. I really think it's something else. I don't think it's comparable. But it was not so that at the time Dijkhoff became Minister of Defense after the resignation of Hennis-Plasschaert, he came from the Chamber into the cabinet. It's not comparable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u43	It was a new appointment during a missionary period in another position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr Wassenberg... Sorry, sorry, you weren't finished talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u45	Sure, but there were some interruptions added outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u46	First of all, Mr Wassenberg, Party for Animals. Then Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga and then Mrs Arib, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u47	The Constitution is clear. The Constitution prohibits a Member of Parliament from being either Minister or State Secretary at the same time. There's one semblance. One exception. Indeed, that's what it's been about: if you're in a missionary cabinet, you can be temporarily part of the Chamber after the election and if you've been elected. But that is a outgoing minister or secretary of state who will be MPs. The Constitution doesn't say anything about the opposite. That doesn't mean there's nothing to say about it, because we also have the Tickets Act, that article x3. In the Tickets Act, I have it in front of me now that when a First or Second MP is appointed in a position that according to the Constitution cannot be combined with membership, that is to say, that combination shall cease to be a Member of Parliament. The Constitution does not express its opinion. You are right to say that it is not constitutional. But the Tickets Act is very clear: it cannot be done. The reverse flight route in which you are a Member of Parliament, Secretary of State becomes a member of the Demissionary Cabinet and also remains a Member of Parliament is impossible. The Tickets Act clearly states that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u48	The Tickets Act does not say it as clearly as Mr Wassenberg is proposing. That's what the Council of State considers it to be. I also found the answer he received yesterday to this specific question from one of the guests striking. That was: read the whole constitutional article first. Against that context, you have to read the Tickets Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u49	The Council of State says that it is not entirely clear and indeed concentrates on the Constitution. Actually, they're putting the ball back in the Lower House. We need to talk about it now. The Tickets Act just says "I've read the article "I can't do it." The reverse flight route can't be. Let me ask you this: can you say "we think it should be changed"? Whether we change the Ticking Act or the Constitution, which lasts a little longer, I am not talking about that now, but can we at least manage to stop using that reverse flight route?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u50	My final sentence for Mrs Leijten's first interruption was: and my conclusion is that amendment to paragraph 3 is desirable in order to conclude the route now followed pragmatically. So that's the assignment we're giving to the Constitutionalist. I fully agree with Mr Wassenberg that the ball should be placed in the Lower House. I am glad that we are having this debate on this. This is my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga, and then Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u52	Let me not repeat what the previous speakers have said. I fully agree with Mrs Leijten, of course. It's not allowed, and as far as we're concerned, it's undesirable. You may find it desirable. We are, of course, a pragmatic party. What surprises me now is that you are not actually taking the precedent of the three Secretary of State giving up office. As far as I am concerned, this is an implicit recognition of the fact that it is also very positive for our image that it was, in their view, perhaps a mouse hole at first, but not at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u53	The letter of termination or termination of membership came after an opinion from the Council of State that said: this was not contrary to the Constitution. I think it is chic that they did that afterwards, also to give this debate room and not to burden it with their personal fate, but I do not see how it follows that it has a precedent effect and that it should not be, regardless of whether it is undesirable. I have said of this, and I have also heard the debate, or else I would not have wanted to change the Constitution in that respect, which I think afterwards: I have not had it sharp enough on my retina, this undesirableness. I therefore agree with Mr Van Haga's qualification that it is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u55	That it's undesirable, we agree. I do not understand how the withdrawal of parliamentary membership, however chic, made this debate possible, because I believe that it had already been requested. There is a certain signal function and perhaps a precedent effect because of the fact that they were so magnanimous: having read the Council of State, let's just stop this, because it apparently cannot. Whether it is desirable can we indeed decide. But the fact that they do so is, in any case, for me, I hope that this is also the case for you. I think we can conclude from this that for them too, and therefore for almost all of the speakers before this, it is a fact that it is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u56	All the way to the end of this interruption, Mr Van Haga is leaving me in this respect. Precedent effect is kind of a legal thing. I agree with Mr Van Haga that after this incident, or whatever you want to call it, it will not happen anymore and that we feel collectively here 'we are not doing this again in this way and let's get it right'. This is something other than 'this has a legal precedent', which means that it is now said, by the resignation, that it was not legally allowed under the Constitution either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u57	Okay, but at least we can work it out practically. It happened and it's probably never gonna happen again. Then we can close this debate as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u58	That's what you said in your term. I guess that's maybe the bridge to the rest of my speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u59	There is another interruption by Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u60	I am waiting for the rest of my speech on why I think it is right that we should have the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u61	It's getting a little confusing. You have always mentioned Mr Dijkhoff. I agree with Mrs Leijten's explanation. Mr Dijkhoff was a member of a outgoing cabinet. He was Secretary of State and during that period he was appointed Minister in the Cabinet. So he wasn't a member of parliament at the time. He was just a member of the cabinet. That makes it something else. Otherwise there will be all kinds of noise as if we were shouting and that is not the case. The same applies, for example, to Mr Tom de Bruijn. Mrs Kaag was Minister for Development Cooperation and has chosen to take over foreign affairs. He's also been appointed, and no one makes a point of that. I think that we should keep that discussion pure and not really mix it up, because then it seems as if we are just yelling and that is not the case. What is at issue here is that Members of Parliament who have been sworn in are then appointed to a outgoing cabinet. Again, the Council of State says that the interpretations are different. That's what we saw in that conversation yesterday. All these constitutional scholars have different views on this, but the Council of State also says that in the end it is up to the Chamber and it must itself lay down such a constitutional article in the right way, in the way it thinks it should be interpreted. I hope that you choose the latter and that you also think that what has happened now, that MPs have been appointed, is simply undesirable and that it is up to us as a Chamber to correct that. That's what I expect from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u62	To us as part of the constitution, I would like to say on that last point. Mrs Arib was then President of the Chamber, so he will know better, but in my memory Mr Dijkhoff was on the VVD list in 2017 and was also a member of the Second Chamber during the missionary period. But then I also misread the Council of State in that regard. I was concerned with the principle that you are not missionary when you join a missionary cabinet, but are also outgoing without submitting your own resignation application immediately. By the nature of collective dismissal, you are therefore a resignationary ruler in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Sneller of D66 is quite certain that you would not be able to explain Rule 57 (3) of the Constitution, if I understand him correctly. In fact, he states that it is open to two interpretations and that he therefore wishes to make it more explicit. The fact is that in a constitutional article history has to be taken into account in how you weigh it. At that time, in 1938, we can read, that article was introduced precisely in order to avoid the situation that MPs would be appointed to the cabinet as Minister without portfolio. It would be considered undesirable by the constitutionalist that someone was in the cabinet and also in the Lower House. I wonder, with that history, with that explanation, how can you not be sure in just being sure that you can combine those two functions with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u64	I've just explained that several times. The main rule is set out in paragraph 2. It's incompatible. There's one exception, and that's when you're a missionary. That is what we are talking about here. The exception has no orderality in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u65	Eventually, this exception also leads to the principle that you do not appoint someone from the Chamber in a cabinet. The Council of State does not actually take a stand. He says that this weighting is ultimately up to the House of Representatives itself. Mr Sneller of D66 says: it is allowed. On the basis of that explanation, you cannot reach that conclusion, is my conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u66	The Council of State says that the House of Representatives is about incompatibility with membership. All this is covered by Rule 2.2 of our Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the incompatibility of paragraph 2. I am very open to proposals that promote dualism, as Mr Ceder is about to do. But time restrictions, as they were before 1983, or in numbers, for example per group, seem to me to soon become unworkable or even more undesirable than the present situation. I would therefore like to propose two directions of solution which do not require any changes to the Constitution. One that is fundamentally doing something about our system and besides a number of other advantages could also significantly shorten the formation, which also makes the double functions less wringing, is for the directly chosen formatter, as also proposed by the State Committee-Remkes. But as long as a majority of this Chamber rejects this change, I believe that we will have to deal mainly with the political culture and the behaviour of the key players in it. This requires the cabinet to be aware of its missionary status, of political groups that they themselves make good agreements about the role of directors within their ranks, but also of political associations that they take into account this debate on dualism when compiling their lists. I'd also like to hear the Prime Minister's views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u67	My question is about the chosen formatter. As chairman of the State Committee, Mr Remkes has produced a report containing 82 recommendations, I believe, including this recommendation. In retrospect, I think that as a Chamber, we should have dealt with it in a much more substantive and broader way. It was a bit raffled off in committee. Is it not more careful to deal with that report in a thorough manner, including the proposal you are making? For I find it difficult to pick out the chosen reformer from these 82 recommendations in a debate on a state-of-the-art dispute, the appointment of MPs in a cabinet, and to table a motion or make a judgment on this issue. I would like to discuss it in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u68	I am always ready for a broader book review, including all recommendations. But I have also experienced a little too often that if you come up with a specific proposal, it needs to be looked at more broadly. But if you discuss it too widely, everything is connected with everything and we can't decide. I think on some proposals... When we discussed the correct binding referendum, one of the other proposals of the Remkes Committee, we did not say: you have to discuss it in conjunction with all other things. If we are to discuss a change in the electoral system in the near future, I hope that we will be able to assess that on its merits. If there is a bill for an elected reformer, I also hope that we can discuss it on the content. But I am very happy to discuss this in the debate on the state of the rule of law, which will be held at the initiative of Mrs Arib, in conjunction with the other proposals. That is also how the state committee advises it. It advises not only to look at it on its own, but also, for example, in the context of political culture and political bloc formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u69	It is very good that Mr Sneller is making it wider. I think that's excellent. But I don't quite understand the relationship. What if we go to the ballot box? I assume we'll get two ballots. Perhaps we could have voted for Mrs Hammer now. I don't quite know how that should work. Mrs. Hamer or anyone else will be chosen as a formatter. But the problem we are discussing today could have existed just as much. I don't see the relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u70	I get the question. The reasoning of the state committee that I follow is: by the way you shape the electoral system, an ordinary electoral system, in which you do not choose one person but indicate a preferred order, there is the motivation for political groups or parties to present themselves as a block before the elections. Then they can say "this is my preferred coalition," which will take the formation much shorter. The relationship with this debate is, of course, that the Council of State is right to say that if the formation had been completed in three months, this problem would not have been so great. But it is the number of directors that has that double function, combined with the length of the formation, that makes it sand extra. An elected formatter can greatly shorten the cabinet formation and therefore reduce this problem much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u71	I do not see the latter, because then perhaps we would have gotten Mrs Hamer as an elected formatter and then the formation would not have been any shorter at all. If I listened carefully to Mr Sneller, we would vote not only on a formatter, but also on a kind of desired coalition. Let me get this straight. What does my ballot look like? 'Cause there's been a lot of variations going through the last few months. Can we all vote for that then? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u72	It is a pity that we still have this discussion after all these debates on the final report. In the end, it is simply a question of candidates voting in favour of a particular order. Mrs. Hamer was the informant, so she didn't have any direct electoral mandate. That's a whole different logic. Nor was she chosen in a way that she could say: this is what I want to do. She was now employed by the Chamber at work. She did not have her own personal mandate which had a particular direction of preference, for example: if you vote for me, I aim to form a left-wing cabinet, a cabinet from the middle or any variant. Any candidate can then do so. It can also be said that if you do not vote for me, at least put my conservative or progressive alliance partner on two. Then there will be a lot more block-building, so candidates will support each other. This is also happening in France in the two-round system. In the second round, the parties that have lost weight say: "If you vote in the second round, vote in particular..." Macron, you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u73	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Special to speak here for the first time in this new House of Representatives, in this temporary House of Representatives, the House of Democracy. There is a lot of concrete here, so that house is solid, you might think, but in a figuratively sense the house of democracy is much less solid. That is the observation when the cabinet under the leadership of the Prime Minister has once again managed not to comply with the law or at least to extend the law as much as possible. This time this has been done in combining functions of directors and MPs. We have just discussed it in an interrupting debate. The Constitution is clear: one cannot be a Member of Parliament and a State Secretary or Minister at the same time. That's understandable, too. The chamber should check the cabinet. If you are a member of parliament at the same time and are part of the cabinet, you will find yourself in an impossible split if you have your civil servants write laws. You'll have to vote on those own laws as a member of parliament. If you had to check your own policy critically as a Member of Parliament, that would really be an impossible double function and therefore prohibited. There's one, one exception. If a minister or secretary of state has become a member of parliament after the election, then it may be temporarily allowed as long as the cabinet is outgoing. But the opposite is impossible. That reverse flight route is really out of the question and the Tickets Act is very clear about that. When a Member of Parliament is appointed as State Secretary or Minister, he or she shall cease to be a Member of Parliament. But the chief of staff of the cabinet thought he might be able to turn the law into his own. He reasoned as follows. If you can be a temporary Member of Parliament as Secretary of State, you can of course also be a temporary Secretary of State as a Member of Parliament. But you can't do that. The Council of State does not call this an unfortunate course of action for nothing. That neat, neat Council of State is really handing out an ear fig. It means as much as Rutte has not acted according to the spirit of the law. Mr. Chairman. I explicitly ask the Prime Minister how he looks back on his role in this case where new rulers did not give up their seats until a fuss arose. The Council of State called the course of events "unfortunately," referring to the role of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u75	I note that during this debate this is interpreted rather widely, in fact by every speaker I have heard so far. I think that's also the nature of the debate, but you're getting a little furry, Mr. Wassenberg. Because what makes you think that the Council of State would have handed out an ear to the Prime Minister? The Council of State concludes, doesn't it? Or didn't I read it correctly? Is it true that dealing with the Constitution was undesirable? This is particularly true of the fact that it has not been discussed here in the house of democracy, to which you refer. And, the Council of State says, both interpretations are defensible. You can't call that an ear fig, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u76	That ear fig is, of course, meant in a transferable sense, but at the moment that intensely neat Council of State says it's an "unhappy course of action," I think that's quite something. The Council of State is usually a lot less clear in its terms. The Council of State also says that it is indeed not formally prohibited... Let me put it this way. I read that statement by the Council of State as: legally it may be possible, it squeaks and it cracks, but at least it's not according to the moral codes you should have as a politician. That's what I meant by that "earfig." This is due to the wording that it is an "unhappy course of action."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u77	But then it is good to have made it clear to each other that there has been no illegal act. Because that is what you started your argument with: there has been unlawful action, the law has been bowed down. Now you say literally, and you conclude: no, indeed, the Council of State considers that it could, but that it is undesirable. In this debate, however, I would like to draw a distinction between the fact that the cabinet or individuals have acted in violation of the law and that something is undesirable. I am therefore pleased to hear you say: it is undesirable, but it was allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u78	I'd like to say something about that. I have literally said that I can read back that the cabinet has not complied with the law or has stretched the law to the maximum. You're seeing it for the umpteenth time. Of course, we've had Urgenda. We've had nitrogen, where the government didn't comply with its own laws. We see in the Ministry of VWS that deadlines in Wob procedures are widely and structurally exceeded, with which the Minister of VWS does not abide by the law. So I also said: in this case, the law is stretched to the maximum. The question is: is that acceptable or not? I think it is unacceptable in this respect. But I said here that it's about stretching the law. And that's what I blame the Prime Minister. Mr President, I shall continue. A few months ago, the Prime Minister spoke very humbly about his leadership. He would have radical ideas for a new governance culture. Now we see what he meant by that: just keep going like you did, interpret the laws so broad that your policy will fit in and hope you get away with it, deny it, and then say there's no problem, and pull up smokescreens. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet, and certainly the Prime Minister, lacks a moral democratic compass. And we see it all the time. If Cora van Nieuwenhuizen resigns immediately as minister and becomes a lobbyist for large oil companies, we hear Rutte cheerfully say that this is not explicitly forbidden. "So what's the problem?" According to the Prime Minister, anything that isn't explicitly forbidden is perfectly okay. There's no intermediate form. For the Prime Minister, it simply does not exist that something may not be prohibited, but that it should be rejected. That's what you get, without a moral compass. It's forbidden, and the rest is allowed. Those are the two flavors for the Prime Minister. This also applies to the appointment of members of his cabinet, and this also applies to cabinet members who, on closer examination, have opted for another job. It's the "who makes me what" mentality. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the words of former Chamber Chairman Gerdi Verbeet, your predecessor. "The culture in the Rutte Cabinets is that directors do not fulfil a post, but are a kind of short-term volunteer. Mark Rutte himself called his office a "job." That's exactly the problem. You quit a job if you see something nicer come along somewhere else; you fulfill a post until your time is constitutionally over. Cabinet members have an exemplary role as servants of the Crown, but do not act accordingly." I agree with that and I conclude with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are holding this debate. Thank you, too, to Mr Leijten, who organised an educational meeting yesterday with all kinds of experts who shed light on what the debate is about, namely: what exactly is in the Election Act and in the Constitution and how do you read it? Especially for non-lawyers, it's pretty tough. Lawyers also disagree on how to interpret the Constitution and the Election Act. We have just seen in various debates here that Members of Parliament also disagree. Some say: it can become Secretary of State or Minister in a outgoing cabinet and at the same time remain MPs. Others say it can't be done. This debate concerns the political question as to whether members of parliament, who are appointed to control the government, should at the same time be part of that government to be controlled. That is what Mr Kuijken of the Election Council actually said to the Members of Parliament present yesterday. GroenLinks wants to be clear about this. We believe that the position of the House of Representatives will be weakened if more and more Members of Parliament are simultaneously outgoing directors. Especially in a long formation this has an impact on the controlling task, and that is not good. Because this debate in the Chamber and the interpretation of the laws of the Chamber are part of the meaning of the law, I hope that the Chamber, as Mrs Arib has just said, will today state that it is undesirable for Members of Parliament to become directors at the same time. But I want to make another point. That's this: not everything that is allowed, or what is thought to be allowed, is good. We are talking about this issue now, but there are more situations that we can imagine where we need to think carefully about whether to do it, because trust in public administration is more important than anything else, and we all have an important role to play in maintaining this trust. So, as a cabinet, as a prime minister, you should always keep in mind whether it is smart to do something, or it is smart to choose another job as a minister just before the finish line, or it is smart to remain a member of the parliament when you become a ruler, or it is smart to give the impression that you want to keep your parliamentary membership safe. Integrity above all else, I'd say. My only question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with me. And, in the light of his radical ideas on the new administrative culture, how does he look at the supervisory role of the Chamber in relation to a cabinet of members of parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Leijten for the interesting meeting yesterday afternoon. I've learned a lot of that. We often talk here in the Chamber about the need for leadership. The discussion of whether this should be old or new leadership does not interest at all. The presence of strong leaders and, unfortunately, also the lack of strong and inspiring leaders is of all times. We need leaders who are determined to implement a strong rule of law, and not just the rule of law as described in the many laws and rules that our country has, to leaders who also have a strong moral compass and therefore take account of them in the implementation of laws and thus implement them. We need leaders who understand the sentiment of citizens and can and want to move in them, and who are open to adapting their beliefs and, if necessary, the rules. We need brave leadership, which says no to implementing rules that are demonstrably bad for our citizens, and to leaders who dare to stand up and then ask us as a Chamber to delete or amend such rules. Then there is the bridge to the Council of State's opinion on the meaning of Article 57 of the Constitution in relation to the compatibility of functions with parliamentary membership. After all, as a Chamber, we had asked for a reflection on these rules. But let's be honest with each other, because we actually had our opinion already. In fact, the majority of the Chamber at the time felt that we should not want such double functions. It just didn't feel right. As far as I am concerned, you can also read that feeling in the opinion of the Council of State. On the one hand, you read, you might say that it is allowed, but on the other hand, they also find some things about whether you should want it. The position "you should not want it" shares the three people involved, but only after the opinion has been delivered. As a result, they still turn in their Chambers. All we can do for this is respect. But the question we would like answered by the Prime Minister is: why then? Next, the question to ourselves, which was rightly asked by Mr. Sneller: why now? Why is it that, as a Chamber, we only now find it a problem, and not when this situation first occurred in May? When I speak for myself, it is mainly a process of moving insight. The first appointment seemed to be mainly a practical solution after a colleague's failure due to illness. The next two involve the risk of a "new normal." A fair question is how we in the Chamber see this new normal. All things considered, this should not become the new normal. We consider dualism to be important in public administration and the separation of functions. As a rule, double functions do not fit. Exceptions can only be made for a short time. That is how we rightly laid it down in the Constitution. The follow-up question is: do we have to establish this insight into additional protocols and procedures or should we not do so and rely more on the moral compass that we have with each other? That is confidence that this discussion will make us as a Chamber clearer and that it will contribute to a 'practically normal', where the Constitution is leading and our moral compass sends us if rules are not sufficiently clear. As far as the CDA is concerned, and with this we are following the advice of the Council of State, we are going to have these discussions more and more organized with each other. That is why we are tabling a motion with the VVD, which my colleague will read out shortly, calling, among other things, for a committee to look at the functioning of this article of the Constitution, also in relation to the Election Act and the Rules of Procedure, and which proposes clarification and renewal. We believe that by looking comprehensively at these various aspects, we can fundamentally make the right choices. Yesterday's statement by one of the experts triggered me again: the Constitution, the Election Act and the Rules of Procedure are interrelated; it is not a craft box. Finally. The longer we form, the greater the risk that people in the cabinet will look around and at some point choose a different role outside politics. This is separate from the fact that long-term formation also affects the confidence of our citizens in politics. After all, these citizens do not have a message to our mutual or internal problems, but simply want our country to be governed. These lost cabinet members and their portfolios must be taken over. I am not talking so much about cabinet members leaving because of illness. This is a completely different discussion which we must also have together in the interests of the Dutch administration. Again, it is not that we do not understand that at some point they are looking for another job, but then I appeal to that moral compass again. Don't we think we should just finish the job nicely? At the moment, the cabinet is becoming a pigeon loft. Directors are flying in and out, and for us as a Chamber it is always a surprise who comes to the table the next week at our debate. We're curious how our Prime Minister looks at this and how he's gonna make sure he keeps his team together a little better until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I must confess to you that as a Member of Parliament, it feels a little strange to be face to face with the man who is often referred to as the embodiment of that rotten governance culture in The Hague. Because it was Prime Minister Rutte who was responsible for the extravagant crime, who repeatedly dismisses lies as forgetfulness, and who often only sees informing Parliament as an annoying side effect. Mr Rutte simply has a deplorable track record when it comes to governing in a parliamentary democracy. And he sat after Omtzigtgate, when he was caught for the umpteenth time in a lie, still so full of good intentions. He would improve and that governance culture would improve. But in practice, unfortunately, those words seem to be worth little. Apart from the appointment of State Secretary from this Chamber, which we are about to come up with, this Prime Minister had a VVD executive and a D66 executive with all their insider knowledge defect into the big money as a lobbyist. Nice digging thanks to your cabinet position. That is the appearance of many people, and that is also true of institutions that have a direct link with their old ministries. In one case, there was even a direct subsidy relationship. For many years, European watchdogs have been embarrassed by this revolving door construction, and I have also asked written questions about it, but we have been waiting for years for rules to ban this rotating door construction. The cabinet's been talking about it for years, but they won't get there. Why not? Why was a spokesperson of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State first stated that the former executives could simply go lobbying at their own ministry and now it appears that they are not? I don't understand. But above all, and that is the key question for the Prime Minister: how do you deliver on your promise of this new governance culture? How do you do that when rulers simply cross over to a company where they had a direct interest in their old department, namely a grant relationship and a substantive interest? Is that the new governance culture? That is my sincere question to the Prime Minister. But that's not the end of it. This Prime Minister, therefore, very easily defeated the separation of powers by proposing MPs for appointment to the cabinet. As far as DENK is concerned, MPs are there to control the government and this is incompatible with a cabinet position. We therefore interpret Article 57 of the Constitution strictly. We base ourselves on the explanation given to the article in 1938. You can't control yourself as a Member of Parliament either. And as a ruler, you cannot spend enough time in parliament to take that seriously. Members of parliament who do not have time to be MPs eventually damage the Chamber. DENK therefore believes that we in the Chamber should also make it very clear that we are going for that strict interpretation of Article 57 of the Constitution and, as envisaged in 1938, only an exception for those sitting in the cabinet who are outgoing after the election. Finally, Mr President. In all honesty, the Chamber, of course, does not go unpunished in this discussion; neither do I. The Chamber may need to carry out its controlling role of who may be a Member of Parliament better, but this is about MPs who became directors. As far as DENK is concerned, it is therefore necessary in this case to increase the supervisory role of the Chamber in that appointment of directors. Mr Sneller made a very good proposal for this, about a hearing. Why not a public letter? Why not a public resume? But above all, the fundamental question for DENK is: why are directors appointed by the Crown at the suggestion of the Council of Ministers and why are we not voting on it as a parliament? Why do we, as the highest body in the Netherlands, not ultimately decide who is to be nominated for directors and who is not, after an open and transparent debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. Then I give the floor to Mrs Arib of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr. Chairman. The government rules, the chamber controls. A clear starting point which underpins our parliamentary democracy. Directors and MPs are incompatible functions, otherwise directors would have to control themselves. In that case, dualism is a long way to go. Our Constitution offers one exception: a member of parliament who has made his or her duties available may also be a member of parliament. Only this cabinet thought it should use this exception to look up the edges of the Constitution and the Tickets Act, in order to interpret our Constitution in its own right. And that wrings, because whether it's allowed or not, everyone thinks this is an unfortunate construction. Nor is it what our Constitution means. The idea behind this exception is that someone should look after the store in a outgoing cabinet after the election. As long as this is for a relatively short period in which new policies are being handled with great restraint, this may be so, but the starting point should be that the office of President and Member of Parliament are incompatible functions. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he sees it as his task to defend the essence and purpose of the Constitution, not to see how he can extend the interpretation to serve his own purposes. Why didn't he choose "do not in doubt"? Why didn't the three ex-room members give up their seats until after a lot of fuss came up? Why didn't they do that from the start, also out of respect for the office of representative of the people? The whole process surrounding the dual function of Members of Parliament fits in a broader trend. The moral compass of this cabinet is lost and is often found only when social discontent arises. Ministers leaving the cabinet early to become a lobbyist, motions which are not being carried out in time, as was the case with Afghanistan, with all the consequences this entails, and a State Secretary who thinks outside the Chamber to amend the rules on family reunification for minor asylum seekers: this is contempt for the Chamber and for parliamentary democracy. If this is what the Prime Minister meant by his radical ideas for a new governance culture, then I hold my heart. How else? Repetition must be prevented. The existing exception that incumbents may remain in office after they have been elected as MPs goes far enough to me. I can still justify this exception; I believe that this applies to more colleagues in the Chamber. But at the moment that cabinet is going to take decisions that go beyond missionary status, it becomes more complicated. If there is a need to replace outgoing executives, that should only be done if there is really no other way to do so, as far as I am concerned, only MPs will replace them if they immediately lose their seats in parliament and they do not wait until there is commotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr President, through you I would like to clarify Mr Dijkhoff's case with Mrs Arib. I note that there is now an unpleasant situation, because there is uncertainty. You, and I think another colleague, said: precision is important. Exactly: there were elections on 15 March 2017. Mr Dijkhoff was elected a member of the House of Representatives on 23 March 2017. On 4 October 2017, he was appointed Minister of Defence by Royal Decree. So he was elected to this Chamber and went from State Secretary to Minister. What makes this situation different from, for example, the appointment of Dennis Wiersma, who replaces another State Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u88	I have just tried to explain this in an interruption with Mr Sneller. What makes it different is that Mr Dijkhoff was Secretary of State and then became Minister. So he was already in the cabinet. It may be so, but that's really what we need to figure out, in fact, that there might have been a kind of transition for one, two or three weeks. It could be. But then I really should get the data straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u89	I think the dates are clear, because on the dates I just mentioned, there was no new cabinet yet. But I still want a little precision. I say this with respect to you, because I regard you as an authoritative person in this Chamber. Mr Dijkhoff went from State Secretary to Minister. The word "office" does not know our Constitution, as you know. The Constitution refers to the government in Article 42. Mr Dijkhoff went from cabinet member to government member, which is something else, while he was a Member of Parliament. If I compare that with the situation now, which was not unduly confused and fussed about, I ask you again: why is that different? Mr Dijkhoff was indeed a member of this Chamber. I was not there, but perhaps he also took part in the group meetings; I have no idea. He joined the government. That's no different from what's happening now, is it? Maybe that was even more intense than what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u90	I think it was different, but then we really need to get the facts straight about how that went. The shift took place within the cabinet; he was Secretary of State and became Minister. There's nothing wrong with replacing a colleague who's sick in the cabinet, if you're already a member of it. I think it's in there. But I would like to say something about that. The fact that such a great deal of commotion has arisen about this has, in my view, also to do with all the incidents that have taken place over the past period. I am not going to repeat all the debates that have taken place here. But we simply notice that I say this in my speech too, although it may sound hard to say that this cabinet has dealt with this kind of matter too easily. These are, in particular, matters that really affect the Constitution. If all the incidents I just mentioned had not been there and something like this happened one time, then of course we in the Chamber would have called the bell as well. But it would have been a little less intense. I think that the last period with all that has happened... I just didn't mention it or partially or late carrying out motions. I call Mr Remkes. With all due respect, this is not about Mr Remkes himself, but about the fact that he was granted an exemption from the Minister of the Interior, while informant Mrs Hamer had to send a report to the Chamber, another debate had to take place and the Chamber had to table a motion before that. These are all incidents that may not knowingly lead to a lot of commotion. I really hope that we can put an end to this, that we can start with this. This cabinet, missionary or not, and a next cabinet should just take the Chamber seriously. Finally, I have one last sentence: I see that I have 25 seconds left on the role of the Chamber. I think that as a Chamber we should simply take responsibility. That is what the Council of State says in its opinion. The article of the Constitution is open to different interpretations and can be explained in different ways, but it is ultimately the Chamber that has to decide whether there is reason to deprive someone of membership. Indeed, the Constitution, the Election Act and our Rules of Procedure place that responsibility on us as Chambers. I hope that we can fulfil that responsibility today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you, Mrs Arib. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2019, the European anti-corruption watchdog GRECO hit the Netherlands. We are not sufficiently protected from corruption and are lagging behind in ensuring our political integrity. GRECO listed 16 recommendations. The Netherlands has not yet adopted any recommendation. How is that possible? There is hardly any regulation of lobbying practices. There is no cooling-off period for directors, something that former Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen gratefully took advantage of. And who is actually funding the political parties? The premium affair, the 'function elsewhere' debacle, a doubling of the number of incidents in which the Chamber is incompletely informed: it cannot continue to do so. Mr President, we can see in all these incidents that the same pattern is constantly emerging. Every time the cabinet searches or crosses the borders and the Chamber wants to hold those involved to account, the cabinet makes a retreating movement. Then a new incident occurs and the pattern repeats itself. It is a pattern where the incident around the double functions fits seamlessly. Shouldn't the Cabinet have involved the Chamber immediately? As far as we are concerned, the Constitution is clear about the dual functions. You can't wear both the head of government and the MP's hat. Of course with the one unless. The purpose of the law is to protect the trias politicians and the rule of law. Where were the three rulers at the time of the discussion? The social outrage was so great. Then why did it stay so quiet from the cabinet, I ask our Prime Minister. Unfortunately, neither did we as a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. What the state scholars, the Chamber and society agree on is that we should no longer want double positions, such as those of the three Secretary of State. My question to the President is therefore: why has the President not referred the appointment of the State Secretary to the Chamber for assessment? Let us set a limit here as a Chamber. Let us make it clear that this is the border and that it can no longer be crossed. Mr President, allow me to say a few words about the lobby phenomenon. We are also failing in this respect. For example, state law professor Bovend'Eert mentions the Dutch lobby register as nothing more than a bummer and the Netherlands is the only country in Europe that does not have any kind of control over the lobby. When is the Prime Minister going to take these signals seriously? Fortunately, the EU has enough good examples: a mandatory lobby register, a two-year cooling-off period for directors. Why hasn't the Prime Minister done anything about it yet? Why so indifferent? Finally, everything of value is defenseless. That certainly applies to our democracy. The findings of the GRECO should be carried out. Today, as a Chamber, we can speak out against the unnecessary duplication of functions in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u93	Everything of value is defenseless. Mr Dassen asks a very good question: who is funding our political parties? That is clear for Volt Europe. That's Mr. Soros. He wired $23,600 to Volt Europe. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u94	I believe that at the very beginning, when Volt Europe was founded, we actually had a sum from the Open State Foundation. This has enabled the very first people involved in Volt to receive training at Harvard, the Community Organizing programme, precisely to ensure that you involve people from below as much as possible in the social debate and politics. This has been a very good investment, because it has enabled us to build Volt in all the countries of the European Union, including the Netherlands. And yes, we are very transparent about that. I think Mr Bosma read that on the Volt Europa website. This is how we do it with all the amounts above the €3,000 we get. We put them on our website, without foundations, without backdoors. I think that many political parties can take an example. I think Mr Wilders' party could do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch citizen can expect something from our parliamentary democracy. First of all, we are effectively controlling the government. However, we have been sitting for more than a six-month period with first eleven, then ten and now seven Members of Parliament who are not actively participating because they are rulers. In doing so, Parliament is failing itself. In addition, as a citizen, you may expect that the butcher does not approve his own meat and that dualism is firmly anchored in the proportions. Now that directors themselves could vote on a motion of censure addressed to them, I do not think that is appropriate either. Thirdly, citizens can expect directors to coordinate their moral compass in terms of their role in lobbying and follow-up functions. Not looking for what is still within the rules, but wondering what is desirable, and whether that next step increases or reduces confidence in politics. Of course, everyone wants to know what I think of the interpretation of the Constitution. I am going to give a very unsatisfactory answer: I think there is something to be said for both. This has to do with the Constitution, the outgoing state of the cabinet and the desirability of dualism, but also with the fact that there is a period, as Mrs Arib pointed out, in which the Toko is being watched. But I think we all agree on one thing: that this situation is undesirable and that we need to adapt it. That's what the Christian Union thinks. In this political spring, the promise has been made from a shift to more dualism, more transparency, strengthening the rule of law and more service. I am very concerned that if, after everything that has happened, this change is not really made, a bitter cynicism will happen to us all. And rightly so, because if nothing changes in the end, that same cynicism will further undermine confidence in our entire democratic rule of law. Serve society, share freedom, protect life. From that apple, the Christian Union wants to be political. This means for us a serviceable government that is credible and enjoys broad trust from society. The bottom line is that we must not only talk about a different political culture and a human government, but above all we must show it. We must take concrete steps to make a real change. We want to lay the foundations for that other transparent culture and that serviceable government. That is why we are putting forward a proposal for leave arrangements for administrators. It is undesirable that the Chamber should not be able to operate at full strength for so long and that there is a democratic deficit. We therefore propose that outgoing directors should be replaced by a candidate on the list of candidates after their swearing in. This also solves the undesirable situation which has arisen that rulers can control themselves. We would like to ask an independent committee to make a proposal for such a regulation. We want to instruct the Presidium to make that a reality and to put it off. I would also like to say a few words about the choice of the former Minister of Infrastructure and Water State to become a lobbyist for the Energy Netherlands. I think that's an undesirable choice. It shows that the rules for directors who are going to perform a lobbying function should be tightened up. That is why the question to the Prime Minister as to whether he thinks it desirable that a minister should resign and then go into talks with related ministries as a lobbyist. In this case, should the ban on lobbying be simply implemented, including with regard to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to which the former executive has also given short-term guidance? I would also like to ask another question, apart from the specific cases we are discussing here. What, according to the Prime Minister, is the essence of good leadership, even when it comes to his cabinet team? Is that leadership aimed at just or just not operating within the limits of the law when it comes to mixing functions? Or is it leadership that aims to serve, to go that extra mile, but where, if necessary or if mixing functions threatens to arise, "if in doubt: do not" is written in cow letters on the wall? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Serve society. Share the freedom. Protect life. From that apple I reach out my hand to other parties to make that happen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u97	In my term, I have also said that I appreciate the fact that Mr Ceder is looking for a constructive solution. He said in his term: could be replaced. Is it a compulsory replacement scheme or an optional replacement scheme? And how else does he see the constitutional problems? We heard yesterday that it requires a constitutional change. He says: presidency, set up a committee to examine it and then amend the whole Constitution. Or else should I see it in front of me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u98	I think this will require a constitutional change. This is what I've been doing for the past few days. That's what you have to change the Constitution for. But the question is, of course, what do you want to change? Do you want to change the deadlines? Is it mandatory or not? As far as I am concerned, it is mandatory, but you have the situation that after an election you have group chairmen with whom you would like to have a debate. If you had to replace the Prime Minister, who may have won the election, because he would have to sit in the Chamber as a Member of Parliament, you would have a very undesirable situation. So I think it's "obligatory, unless." What that should look like and what deadlines should be attached to it, including those who replace it, is open to me. In doing so, I would leave a team of sensible people, an independent committee, to make proposals. In essence, however, it is the basis for anchoring the leave arrangements, as we also know in the case of sick leave for Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u99	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr Ceder also knows that there are no political groups in the Constitution. The exception to be included in the Constitution is for group chairmen. I am always in favour of looking again at certain possibilities. Mr Ceder wants to reduce the workload of Members of Parliament, while Members of Parliament should return to the Bureau's work group. We should not think of something nice here and then create a mission impossible for a number of Members of Parliament, which also leads to disappointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u101	Agreed. I am not saying that we should set down group chairmen in the Constitution. You hear me say that there is a practical situation if we were to say that every ruler should be replaced. I think you recognize them, too. We should find a solution to that. That has to happen. In my view, we note that the current situation is not desirable either. I believe that a regulation would provide for this. On exactly how to do that, I have some ideas. On the contrary, I think it is a good thing that we, as a Chamber, should discuss this with proposals from a committee. In my view, I share your view that it should not be the case that group chairmen should be called. I think you recognize the dilemma I'm setting out. So we should have a mode for that and I think we should be able to find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u102	In my view, Mr Ceder's answer shows how useful it would be if a committee looked at it and weighed everything down and then advised us on it. We're gonna figure it out, and I think it's okay if we just look into that. If you go along with that, it would require a constitutional change. This was also the case in the case of leave for illness and pregnancy. Does Mr Ceder agree with me that it does not require a constitutional change when we say here that the interpretation of the Constitution is such that you cannot be appointed as a outgoing member of parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u103	Yes. But what you don't create with it is the ability to replace missionary rulers, who were already directors before an election, then remain directors and fall out for whatever reason. You'd like them to be replaced in the meantime. That's what my arrangement provides for. So I agree with you in a way. I don't think that would be mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u104	No, but that's exactly why I'm asking that question. Other members of this Chamber are quite sure to say that, at the time we interpret Constitutional Rule 57 (b), it would require a constitutional change, whereas the Council of State really says that how the Constitution should ultimately be interpreted here, in particular whether or not one or more Members of Parliament have accepted a position that is compatible with or incompatible with parliamentary membership, is obviously primarily up to the Chamber itself. So that does not require a constitutional change in that extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u105	If you put it that way, I think it is. We also had a discussion yesterday with professors who indicated that it is primarily up to the Chamber to indicate this. I am also curious about the Prime Minister's response to this issue. If the Chamber decides 'we should not want to', then I also wonder whether a precedent has arisen in all honesty. In my view, it was Mr Van Haga who also indicated that a precedent had arisen because the Secretary of State deliberately renounced their Chambers. I think that is why you should say, under normal law, that this is what we are doing now. This does not require any changes. I'd love to hear it from the Prime Minister, but these are the two paths I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr President, thank you very much. Kids can sometimes tell us a mirror. The other day, I was observing a little club of these playing kids. They were engaged in a game and suddenly there was intense turmoil, because there was a great difference of insight about the rules of the game. "It's okay!" "No," says the other, "it has to be like this!" That went on for a while and at some point I saw them sticking their heads together. They came out and made a deal with each other: okay, that's how we deal with it. I found that really stimulating when I looked into this whole issue. At the time I thought: this is a nice mirror and that's how we should do it, because it's clear that the differences of insight are quite large. One says 'Rule 57 allows it' and the other says 'no, if you make a firm argument and involve the electorate and the Rules of Procedure, then it cannot'. If you don't get any further, you'll never get a good solution. The approach we now have with this debate is to find a good solution. I would therefore like to say to all those who have contributed to the development of this debate and who have fed the content of this debate: thank you very much. I mean, among other things, Mr Leijten, who has organized an excellent session. We could have a very sharp exchange of views, apart from all kinds of political wrangling and so on. That is a first step towards a sensible decision on the rules of the game. Apparently there is a need to tighten it up, but then we need to tighten it up in a balanced way, because that will give us an orderly constitutional debate here. And that is in any case very dear to the SGP. That is why I am restricting myself to the issue. I would also like to discuss integrity and the limitation of lobbying and that sort of thing, but I would just not like to link that to it, because this is about the further interpretation of a constitutional article. The SGP notes that two points seem to be undisputed. Firstly, there is a new situation, because in the past it has never been a question of MPs who became decommissioned directors of a cabinet that they have not yet been part of. So there was no extra resignationary rulers. Secondly, executives who join a missionary cabinet are also missionary. However, it does not automatically mean that you must note that they are also considered to be directors who have made their duties available. That seems to be a bit legal hair clovering, but that is a substantial difference. This is because it is a matter of the fact that the constitutionalist did not foresee this situation and clearly limited himself to the situation of directors who were subsequently elected and appointed as MPs. How should you assess the situation that the constitutionalist has not yet foreseen? That question transcends the literal text and is about constitutional interpretation. The SGP does not opt for legalistic glasses, but insists on the fact that the constitutionalist himself is very reluctant when it comes to dual functions. In that case it is almost inevitable, as in Article 57 (3), which is not expected to last too long. They're a little alien to the spirit of the Constitution, you might say. The line is that it is not desirable to allow MPs who do not belong to the outgoing cabinet to retain their seat when they become directors. The Council of State finds that no explicit and public weighting has taken place. In that case, it would have been obvious at least to say that there was a new situation, which we had not discussed before. It would be a good thing if, in matters such as membership of the States General, we were not dependent on external advisers, but as a Chamber, as a State General ourselves, we were equipped to address such issues. My specific question to the President: can she indicate what opportunities it sees? The SGP would also consider it wise to look again at the possibility of avoiding double functions in the missionary period. If a cabinet is outgoing for almost a year, it feels rather uncomfortable that members of parliament can vote on their own policies. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, we will table a motion together with GroenLinks in the second term to clarify the interpretation of Article 57 third paragraph. Then you can prepare yourself mentally for that. Either GroenLinks will submit it, or the SGP will submit it, but we are really working on this hand in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I give the floor to Mr Ellian of the VVD. It's his maiden speech. I wish him every success in that. It is very nice to see colleagues present. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. Today's debate focuses on the Constitution. It is incredibly special to me that I should be allowed to make my first contribution to a debate on the Constitution. Why is this so special to me? Unfortunately, my parents have never had the protection of a constitution, at least the protection of the democratic and constitutional application of the constitution. A constitution that won't arrest you without suspicion. That you're not being held captive for your opinion or for the sake of who you love. That you will not be executed on the basis of randomness. That you are not obliged to adhere to a religion. This is the reality in the country where my father was born, Iran, and probably again the fate of the country where my mother and I were born, Afghanistan. Many have given their lives and still give their lives in the fight against tyranny and to have a beautiful constitution in those countries like ours. That struggle is so terribly difficult and ultimately based on holding on to hope. Hope that freedom will prevail. I hope my parents' loved ones killed by tyranny are watching me today. Compared to them, my contribution to freedom and democracy is not that big a deal. Yet I hope that they can see me and see a smile through their tearful eyes. A smile that I can contribute to freedom and democracy in this beautiful place. In the free and enlightened Netherlands that my parents and I love so much, the land of the orange lion, the country where the sixth verse of the national anthem says: drive away the tyranny that wounds my heart. And the heart of me and my family is wounded. But we will always fight tyranny. The fact that we are speaking freely here today in this special place, okay, a little less special than the Binnenhof, is because other heroes have fought for that right. This starts with Willem van Oranje, until Michiel de Ruyter, Aletta Jacobs, until Hannie Schaft and Erik Hazelhoff. Mr. Chairman. Now that I am a member of the Second Chamber of the States-General of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, I feel it is my duty to give everything in me, every strength, every effort, every drop of sweat, for the protection of the free and enlightened Netherlands where my parents have come to feel so at home, and to fight for the improvement of our constitution, as others have once done. Mr. Chairman. This means that today I am able to approach the constitutional debate with an open attitude, but also with a bit of relativity. Of course there is an important constitutional question ahead, but fortunately we can debate it peacefully in good conscience. What is clear is that there is no consensus on the application and interpretation of Article 57 (3) of the Constitution. Simply put, the Constitution is unclear about the situation of MPs joining a cabinet whose resignation has already been offered to the King. To date, no one can give a clear answer to the question of what would then be the position of the newly acceded directors if there were incompatibility. Whatever the case, the three State Secretarys have resigned from office and that is a courageous decision. The fundamental question now lies in how to deal with the post-election period in which a cabinet is decommissioned, a word which the Constitution does not know at all. That question is not easy to answer. As far as I am concerned, it is even a question of whether this debate, which has been planned a little hasty, can now clarify this in a sensible way. Fundamental clarity can only be achieved through a constitutional change, but that is a serious step, a long-term step and a step whose consequences need to be properly assessed. That is why I will be tabling a motion together with Inge van Dijk in the second term asking for a committee to be set up to carry out an in-depth examination of the relevant legislative provisions and to make proposals to clarify and renew them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you for your wonderful contribution, Mr. Ellian. I suggest that we suspend briefly so that you can receive the congratulations. Good luck in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u112	I ask Members to take their place again. I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u113	Let me begin by thanking Mrs Leijten for raising this issue and her clear contribution. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, during the debate on the formation, I indicated that I did not take too much notice of the missionary or non-missionary policy led by Mr Rutte. Just the deportation of Afghanistan is a disgrace to everyone who is directly involved and a political failure that can be matched by the surcharge scandal. But political failure is something quite different than deliberately and knowingly sacrificing the rule of law for political gain and maintenance of power. That is what I think the debate is about today. Where the Council of State called the appointment of three MPs as State Secretary and their dual function an unfortunate step from a constitutional point of view, I would rather describe it as what it really is. It is an attempt to undermine the position of the Chamber and yet once again to scrape some edges of what we have once described as power and counterpower. During the week preceding this debate, the three Members in question quickly abandoned membership of the European Parliament in the hope that this debate would lose its fire before it could take place at all. We did it! I am surprised at how little press there is, for example, in a debate which is quite important and which is very much at the heart of what we are doing here. But I'm sorry. It's too little, too late. The sheer arrogance with which the members in question and with it this cabinet initially thought they could do so without even giving one second of attention to what it means to the position of the Chamber, and then the perhaps even greater arrogance to assume that a hasty make-up makes us happy to continue as if it never happened... Well, as far as I'm concerned, the answer to that is absolutely no. Not only because dedain towards the Chamber is unacceptable, but also because the cabinet simply knows but does not stop. I've only been here five months, but in those five months I've had the displeasure to see how this cabinet is getting the position of the Chamber in its missionary status over and over again. This incident fits exactly into the ever-growing list. Mr Van Baarle also referred to it. A list of completely blacked-out documents, an intelligence service that, despite the complete denial of a missionary minister, is structurally out of line, adopted motions that are not carried out, a Chamber that is not informed at all or at least too late, and a minister who, as a blow to the flame, becomes a lobbyist in the field she was in charge of for four years. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore addressing the rest of the Chamber. Today is about a specific situation, which is true, but please let us not pretend to be incidents and therefore forget to look at the structural status of this malpractice, the wrong policy of the Ruttedoctrine, the sawing away of power and opposition in this extremely rotten administrative culture. Because if it leaks into every room of your house, and it gets the rot and the fungus out of hand, maybe it's really time to conclude that a cleaning cloth isn't gonna help anymore and neither is the air freshener. Maybe you should take a look at the construction and have the roof checked. As far as I am concerned, the leadership under which all of this takes place is a danger to the functioning of the Chamber and thus also a danger to the functioning of our democracy. If there is any doubt about the correct interpretation of what the Constitution gives us, then the politically controversial word'morality' falls. Everyone knows, feels, well, should feel, what is right and what is not right. What's happening here isn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u114	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u115	Mr. Chairman. A deep bow in the direction of our maiden speaker, Mr. Ellian, for his beautiful and moving story. It's a good thing he mentioned our resistance fighters for a while. I know the family history of the Ellian family a little bit. It's wonderful that he's standing here with the constitutional message he's been putting out. I know his dad a little bit. I respect them deeply. It's a pleasure for him to have delivered such a wonderful son. I often think of Mr Ellian's mother these days, who I wish for strength and health in these difficult days. Mr. Chairman. The word is "deprecated." I would like to start with a more positive approach, but that is the word: decay. Deterioration of parliamentary democracy. Decorum loss. The systematic loss of dignity. That has been going on for years, but it has all taken a turbo-dive this year. Maybe it started with the supplemental affair, which so painfully exposed government failure. The elections followed, which were won brilliantly by D66, thanks to the D66-led state broadcasting and the donation of 1 million euros by a techbillionaire. Then there was the most embarrassing formation, who knew her own dive again. After "function elsewhere," which was so painfully leaked by Minister Ollongren, the formation house thundered. There were motions of distrust, ways of separating each other and knives in backs. On Sunday evening Mrs Kaag crowned herself a new John F. Kennedy and went five quarters of an hour on the man with whom she was going to form a cabinet. It's an explosion in slow motion and, of course, it's a game of state law. It is absolutely bizarre how far-reaching the measures the cabinet is taking, from billions for climate socialism, to the Afghans and what have you? I also mention the expropriation of farmers and corona, and that is what the cabinet really is, after all, a missionary one. The motion tabled by my group last night to put an end to this was rejected and now the fence is completely off the dam. On Monday, Mrs Kaag announced in her lecture that there is no longer time to steer change of behaviour through taxation or propaganda, but that people need to be radically changed. It's scary. But it is clear: we are on our way to a missionary climate dictatorship, of course based on inclusion and diversity. Then the three State Secretarys who continued to join as MPs. Oh, my God, you don't want that, do you? They finally quit. That makes sense, but they only did so after a lot of fuss and not after the invading of a sense of state-law purity. That is a disgrace, because the separation between Chamber and Cabinet must be 100% clear. It must be sacred. We had only 139 pure MPs for some time, to name them. And there are still eight double functions. For example, the Prime Minister is also a Member of Parliament. It is logical and understandable in itself that directors elected after the elections remain Members of Parliament for a while, but now the formation seems to be taking place far beyond jubilee it is starting to be very painful. The Council of State is quite right to say: it is sanding. Sounds like an understatement to me. Doesn't the Prime Minister find it a little embarrassing himself? The MP Rutte now controls the Prime Minister Rutte. Two hats, how's that going? Does Mark Rutte keep Mark Rutte a little sharp? Is he sufficiently well-equipped as a Member of Parliament, or does he perhaps need an additional policy officer? I'd be happy to take care of it for him. A schizophrenic is never alone, ever densed Karin Flowers. But should we really want this, especially given that this outgoing cabinet is taking increasingly important and larger measures and not just looking after the store? The VVD started with six ministers. That's four more now. D66, Kaag, supported one minister and one secretary of state. Directors choose the hare path massively. D66 Secretary of State Mrs Van Veldhoven went on the schnapps tour, at least with an organization that was subsidised by her own ministry. Cora van Mora took a bite on a lobby job, a meat crockery that other cabinet members apparently took their noses for. Embarrassing, embarrassing. She now collects the two-and-a-half tonne zip code for two and a half days' work. Yeah, well, why finish your term of office if you can swim in a money warehouse and watch the decay from a distance? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. There is an interruption by Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr Bosma can say it strikingly, but I also find it painful that he first takes a very deep bow to Mr Ellian's family and then goes back to the Afghans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u118	I'm not gonna swing at Afghans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u119	Well, okay. I'm not gonna waste any more words on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u120	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u121	I do have a question for Mr Bosma. You rightly criticize the way in which the Chamber is being treated and how it is being looked down from box K. But shouldn't there also be a Chamber, including a President of the Chamber, who will stand for the respect for that Chamber and for the balance of powers in The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u122	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u123	Then how do you think that whoever should do this on our behalf as a Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u124	Your microphone wasn't on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mrs. Leijten, you need to press the pedal properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u126	Perhaps you should repeat your question for the millions of people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u127	Perhaps it is a conspiracy, because your group chairman is quietly speaking when it comes to the election of the President. However, what I asked is how you feel the President did it. How has it defended the standing of the Chamber and the importance of us as a Chamber as a whole from its position?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u128	I disagree with her position on the interpretation of the Constitutional Article, because I think that the Constitutional Article... You can talk about the exegesis, but in any case, the spirit of the Constitution and the spirit of state law means that there must be a clear separation between Chamber and Cabinet. Mrs Arib began her contribution by saying that the cabinet rules and that the Chamber controls. That is one of the essentials of state law, so I think that a double function is totally wrong. That's what I said in my term. I also think that the President of the Chamber could have opposed this practice, but she did not. I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u129	I think it is very nice that Mr Bosma interrupted me and asked about the transparency of the financing of the Volt party. I think that is important, and he just mentioned it in connection with the 1 million tech funding. My simple question is indeed whether Mr Bosma and I can agree on making the law on party financing more transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u130	Yeah, but I'm curious about the effect. Basically, I say that's very good. It is, of course, very dubious that in the Netherlands we have a kind of youth club called Volt, which is funded by Mr. Soros. That is, of course, a bad thing and a bad thing for our democracy, given Mr Soros' background. Mr Dassen is quite right to say that Mr Soros has made a good investment. He's happy about that, but I'm getting the cold sweat all over my back. So if we can get more clarity about the link between Mr Soros and the Volt party in the future, I would appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u131	It is very nice to hear that Mr Bosma wants to be part of this, because it is indeed important that we make things transparent. We do that with Volt, of course. I am also curious if Mr Bosma says anything about the name Shillman. I think we should also make it transparent how all Members of Parliament get funding through the foundations they have. We're gonna have to go public with that, too. I wonder how Mr Bosma looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u132	The fact that MPs are funded by foundations is something I don't know about very soon. Are MPs funded? Yeah? Then give me an example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u133	There are foundations that receive money that MPs have access to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u134	I'm not sure that's necessarily wrong. I need to see what the repercussions of that are. If a political party is financed with unclear money, then I think transparency is very good. As Members of Parliament, we must be honest about how we get our income. We have to give that up, and that goes to a certain limit. So I think that's already open and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u135	That's good to hear. Then I conclude that as a Chamber we must be stricter on this and that Mr Bosma will support us in ensuring that this becomes more transparent and that this also applies to foundations associated with political parties, or foundations to which Members of Parliament have access.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u136	That is your conclusion, because I need to know exactly what Mr Dassen is referring to. But if we're going to go through the whole climate mafia and all the money that's going on in there, I think that's a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mr. Chairman. "Absolutely no office in the State as much as that of Minister in relation to the People's Delegate," said Thorbecke in his contribution to the Constitutional Review in 1848. Although the outgoing Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, says he has Thorbecke so high, he does not seem to consider his ideas to be of such interest that he seems to take them seriously, even if professors in law are kind enough to draw his attention to this. Helped by an apparently independent opinion of the Council of State on the compatibility of other functions with parliament, Rutte informs the Dutch electorate that the missionary status of a cabinet lasts ad infinitum as far as he is concerned: endless, there is no time limit. What signal does the appointment of three new rulers in his cabinet give to the Dutch electorate? These are government officials who have remained Members of Parliament to the extent of constitutional contempt. The demonstration of tens of thousands of people last Sunday did not seem to have made any impression. The power seems to have gone to his head by now. Mr. Chairman. Children already learn about the trias politician at school. They learn that the powers must be separate and balance each other. A member of the executive cannot be a member of the legislative authority at the same time. The legislative power is supposed to control the executive. Has Rutte's contempt for democracy become so great? Yesterday we debated with him in his capacity as a Member of Parliament, which is supposed to control the government. Today, Rutte is back here as Prime Minister. This is the ten-year agony of Rutte: an undressed house of Thorbecke, a democratic demolitie, a representativeness ruin. The Council of State has become a vulgar stamp machine for the incumbent power. Earlier, the same Council of State has already left the parents affected by the supplementing affair completely in the cold. The same Council of State also approved the retroactive abolition of the Advisory referendum Act in 2018. The same Council of State now decided, without blushing or blushing, that members of parliament may join the government, which must be controlled by these members of parliament, initially without giving up the office of MP. It'll be obvious. We're dealing with a pattern here. The Council of State systematically elects a party for power and against the citizen, against democracy, against the Constitution. In fact, according to the Council of State, our democracy is no longer about the Dutch citizen. It is now about the greater importance of the European Union. That's what it says in the pieces. A Copernican twist, a coup d'état on paper. How could it have come to this? Mr. Chairman. This is yet another example of what we have been calling the party cartel for years. The Council of State is led by Vice-President and former D66 leader Thom de Graaf, assisted by former PvdA leader Ad Melkert and the predecessor of Hugo de Jonge, former VVD Minister Bruno Bruins. In short, the Council of State's latest opinion on the appointment of the three members of parliament who have initially remained members of parliament is a new low in a more visible trend. Only radical, far-reaching changes can reverse this life-threatening development. Therefore, in my second term, I will table a motion, a far-reaching and in-depth motion, to examine whether we can deprive the Council of State of its jurisdiction and place it with the Supreme Court of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you. First of all, I too would like to congratulate Mr Ellian. A very big compliment for his beautiful speech. I've had the honor of meeting his father. Mr. Ellian is as eloquent as his father. That promises something for the coming years here. Mr President, best citizens in the Netherlands and people in the gallery. It's better halfway back than all the way down. That was my first reaction when I read that Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mr Wiersma and Mr Van Weyenberg decided to cancel their parliamentary membership, but as a farmer with toothache. The whole process is once again a serious stain on the image of the Chamber and the Cabinet. The new governance culture is somewhere in the Binnenhof. I don't know where, because I still haven't been able to find it. But perhaps the highly valued construction workers who work a few hundred meters from this temporary building will find themselves in the sweat to remodel the buildings there, this one again. Here, Mrs Leijten is blaming 'you couldn't have gotten ahold of yourself before', of course, comparing apples with pears; that is the world upside down. At so many moments, these three Secretary of State could have thought of it for themselves. At the time they were asked, didn't they realize that it's very uncomfortable that as a Member of Parliament you should vote on the proposals you put forward as a cabinet yourself? If your appointment is proposed in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats or in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats When state lawyers speak out against the intended construction and call it "unconstitutional," does none of those involved still have a light on? If several members of the Chamber speak crystal clear against this construction, do these rulers still think it is okay to continue this construction? When I announced that I would apply for a roll-call vote in any vote on the policy areas of these State Secretarys, which is a democratic right, but a heavy burden on the agendas of the fellow Members of Parliament, did they not realise that their agenda and those of their colleagues would go to hell because they exceeded the Constitution? Mr. Chairman. We are now debating whether or not the Constitution..., on the Council of State... leafibla. But here's the thing: you just don't want to do this yourself, done. How is politics ever to regain the confidence of the Dutch citizen when directors and MPs take a walk in democracy? And not once, but several times. Again today: a message at Follow the Money, which reports that the Lower House has not been informed in good time or incompletely by the Cabinets-Rutte for years. The contempt for the House of Representatives and thus for the inhabitants of the Netherlands, who choose us and pay us, is appalling. Do you really need an opinion from the Council of State? Is it too much to ask to look critically at your own place, your own role and your own responsibility in democracy? Mr. Chairman. If the rulers themselves do not have common sense, then it is up to the Chamber to limit itself. According to the Council of State, it is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide whether this is possible. Then let us decide. This can't be happening. A member of parliament may not join a outgoing cabinet and retain his or her seat. Members of parliament who vote on proposals they make as ministers make a joke of one of the core principles of our rule of law: the separation of powers. Today we must create the precedent that will ensure that this never happens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u141	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we suspend for an hour, until 8:00 p.m., including dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u142	The next item is the Prime Minister's first term. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u143	Mr President, thank you. I thought I would start with the questions that have been asked about the appointment of the Secretary of State and about their, at least for some time, combination with parliamentary membership. Then I will go to a number of other questions. Before I do that, I too am extremely proud of the wonderful first speech in plenary, the maiden speech, of my party colleague. I really enjoyed it and wish him every success. I would also like to say something about what has been said from the point of view of the Forum for Democracy on the Council of State: 'a stamp machine of power'. I would like to strongly contradict that statement here. I think it would be unwise for us here to make that sort of sweeping statements about High Colleges of State. In doing so, we contribute to the erosion of confidence in these institutions. The judicial role of the Council of State obviously goes beyond the scope of this debate. So let me just say that we decided, not so long ago, to leave the organisation of the highest administrative jurisdiction to rest. This has also been done at the explicit request of the Supreme Administrative Court itself. I'm adding that, so I'm really having a hard time with that remark. That's what I want to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you. Before you proceed, there is a response from Mr Van Houwelingen from Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you for the comments. This is our most important point. You should actually take responsibility for this yourself. The party cartel has been through the jobs carousel all these years, and I talked about that yesterday, ensuring that all people who are members of the party cartel have been dropped in the Council of State. I've got the whole list in front of me. I just mentioned a few names, like Frank de Grave and Bruno Bruins. They are now members of the Council of State. They'll come up with those advices. Or Richard van Zwol and Ad Melkert. You understand that, don't you? How can you call that an independent body?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u146	All those terms that come from the corner of Forum, in an increasingly radicalization, about party cartels and so on... I can't do anything with that. All those who are mentioned are people with a broad social background and with great experience. Of course, we are all here as Chambers and Cabinets, and I think we should be pleased that people of this quality, including Thom de Graaf, the Vice-President, are prepared to carry out these functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u147	But you can't be that naive, can you? Do you have any idea how power works? This is a carousel. I talked about this in detail yesterday. They all come back to different places. Then you'll be back in the NPO and you'll be back in the Council of State. That's freaking out. Let me give you an example. At the request of the President, an opinion was requested from the Council of State on the appointment of new directors. So there are people you know well, like Frank de Grave, who help or are somehow involved in that advice. You may not be giving direct instructions, but those people are going to think along. So you don't have that divorce anymore. That's how power works. You understand that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u148	If we had, we wouldn't have had this debate, would we? Then the Council of State would have fallen into the arms of the cabinet crying with our vision of the position of the Secretary of State. That didn't happen. That is why we have part of this debate. I therefore believe that this whole debate is proof of the total nonsense of your statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Van Houwelingen. And I'd love to talk through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u150	The Prime Minister really knows what I'm talking about. In the end, it's about the question: could it or couldn't it? And of course, that's how we always see it at the Council of State. That was also the case when the Advisory referendum Act was repealed. Then they also said that it couldn't be legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u151	But not in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u152	Yes, I do. In the end, they didn't say it couldn't be done. That wasn't the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u153	No, but they have raised so many problems that, in the end, it is clear that there is at least a discussion that we should have had earlier. I am going to talk about this now, but I believe that this whole debate is an example of the Council of State doing its job in great independence. Then, Mr President, I will deal with the two questions that have been raised. Perhaps I can do so on the basis of the question raised by one of the first speakers, Mr Sneller, at the beginning of his speech. I think I'd like to say a few things about that. First of all... If you look at the ruling of the Council of State, it is indeed clear that the Council of State says it is not unconstitutional. But the question as to whether or not it is acceptable is, by the way, that I agree with GroenLinks that the answer to the question of whether or not to do so is not decisive. What you must note is that, although with some delay, these appointments have given rise to a lot of discussion. In my view, the individual State Secretarys have wrongly taken the view that they have drawn the conclusion from this that they should withdraw from the Chamber. As far as the role of the cabinet is concerned, I conclude two things. First of all, even though the Constitution does not prevent the appointment of a member of the Second Chamber in the Demissionary Cabinet, and even though the Chamber and the individual member ultimately decide on the compatibility of functions......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And if it were to come to new appointments in this outgoing cabinet, I sincerely hope not, then of course those views will be decisive. That means that, as far as I am concerned, we no longer have people from the Chamber... If that happens, someone from the Chamber may go into the cabinet, but I will ask them to resign from the Chamber at that time. Even if I don't, I'll make it clear that this is a consequence. A second observation is that the Council of State, in its opinion, which I consider to be a well-balanced opinion, speaks of a balance between the dualist and monistic elements in our system. I think it is right to note that this balance has not been laid down in concrete terms, but is also a result of a continuous dialogue between States-General, especially the House of Representatives, and the Cabinet. I therefore agree with Mr Sneller when he said that, apart from a constitutional provision, this is also a common political view on culture. I think it would have been better if we, as a cabinet, had not been able to consider the sensitivity of this and that we could have actively pointed this out to the Chamber itself, so that you could have had a discussion about it with each other, more explicitly than has been the case today. That didn't happen. I think that would have been better anyway. So that's not how we do it anymore. I think that the Council of State is really helping us in this and the conclusions drawn by the Secretary of State. But I also think that if you weighed the whole thing on hand now and tasted it on the tongue, it would have been better if we had had that discussion more explicitly with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u154	I think I fully agree with what the outgoing Prime Minister is saying here. But I would like to ask him a question about that, because this is the outcome of this process. How hasn't it been considered doing it like this? It would have been better to consult the Chamber. You say that at least we are not going to do it anymore, because it is clear that the Chamber weighs it differently. But how was that balanced at the end of May?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u155	As I described in the answer to the parliamentary questions, namely that, in the opinion of the Cabinet, it is possible to appoint people who are also members of the Chamber also in the outgoing situation in the Cabinet, while at the same time maintaining parliamentary membership. Once again, I have two comments to make. A large part of this Chamber says, also in view of the opinion of the Council of State, that you should not want to do this, so we should not do that anymore, I think. Secondly, at least in retrospect, you have to establish that it would have been good to have a more explicit discussion about this. But the reason we did it is because the cabinet thought we could.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u156	Yes, the Constitution does not exclude it, but does exclude double functions. That's twice as much here all the time. Looking back it would have been better if we had discussed it with the Chamber, you say. Is that balanced at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u157	No, of course that's not balanced. No, we really did consider that this was possible and that it was not unconstitutional. In fact, unlike Mrs Arib in the discussion with Mr Ellian, we also see a parallel with the previous appointments of Kosto and Dijkhoff, because there was a promotion of State Secretary to Minister and thus of a new royal decision, which did not lead to the resignation of MPs. Of course, they were members of a team, but they had a different constitutional position. It was equipped with a KB, because they went from Secretary of State to Secretary of State. So we have correctly ruled to do so. What you have to establish now is that the Council of State also says that it is not unconstitutional. The Council of State does say that there are all kinds of comments to be made. I can also see how the Chamber, I think, can see that it is a majority opinion on this matter. I think it is very relevant to say: then we should stop doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u158	I just said that I agree and that it is the right conclusion. But I'd like to go back to May, because it wasn't balanced at the time. Then the Prime Minister asked MP Yeşilgöz-Zegerius to become Secretary of State on his team. There has been no further discussion as to whether she could remain a Member of Parliament or not. Was there any advice at the time? Has there been any contact with the President of this Chamber? Has there been any contact with the Council of State? How did the cabinet operate then?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u159	The cabinet makes that decision itself. We've ruled it possible. The President of the House of Representatives has its own responsibility. The House of Representatives also has its own responsibility. This concerns the question of whether the adoption of another function may lead to incompatibility. We haven't experienced it that way. I don't think you can establish that as black and white. I note, however, that today we are drawing the conclusion that you should not want that politically. Who else should I have consulted besides the President? You mentioned someone else. I've lost it for a while. You mentioned a middle name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u160	I am not saying that you should have consulted anyone; I am looking for how that happened back then. 'Cause you're seeing the course of things, of course. No one here has climbed into the pen at the time it was one State Secretary, but it was when the second and the third were sworn in. Then there were written questions. They'll be answered in 24 hours. But how did it go after that? The SP wasn't the only one who said anything, there were multiple parties who did. There was a discussion. Wasn't there a new weighing moment for this Prime Minister after which he could say: perhaps it would be better to split it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u161	No. Because we will of course be informed by advice from our own circle and also directly around the cabinet. But we were and are of the opinion that this has not changed in my view either. The information provided by the Council of State also shows that it is not unconstitutional. But at the same time, on the basis of that balanced information, do you have to do so or is it an advice? However, the Council of State, which is in force here today, notes that there are comments to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u162	I am very curious to know who the lawyers are who have apparently advised both the President and the Cabinet and who say so strictly: there is no prohibition, so it is allowed. It is clear that it is a prohibition article, which sees the non-compatibility of the function of MP with that of executive. But why should it first be regarded as undesirable by the Council of State and should it be concluded that the Chamber should express its opinion that this has gone unhappiness and that Parliamentary questions have been answered carelessly before anything happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u163	Mrs. Leijten, the world...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u164	Can the Prime Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u165	I'll try. Mrs Leijten paints a very black and white picture. I don't share that with her. This isn't black and white. The question here is: how do you ultimately weigh a number of articles, in the Election Act, in the Constitution and perhaps also in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber itself, and how do they relate to each other? The opinion of the cabinet was and is that this can be done. The Council of State doesn't say it can't. Being appointed in a outgoing cabinet, which has already applied for collective resignation, means that the acceding State Secretary is also part of the collective dismissal. This also applies automatically to them. Otherwise, three missionary State Secretarys would suddenly be in the cabinet; they wouldn't have remained a member of the House of Representatives anyway. They therefore share in the fact that collective missionaries are the cabinet's. We found it and we think it's possible. If you are now reading the Council of State's opinion and hearing the political debate, I think it would be wise at the same time to draw the conclusion tonight that you should not do so. This is the case in any case for this cabinet; a next cabinet and a next chamber must relate to it, but we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u166	I'm really sorry. No matter how you turn it, there's no prohibition, so it's okay. If you are going to explain laws and the Constitution in this way, then any possible new situation can be prevented. The Prime Minister says, "There's no prohibition, so it's okay." While everyone sees that the spirit of the law doesn't allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u167	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u168	Everyone said: how nice that Mrs Leijten organized this yesterday. There were scholars and historians who disagreed on whether or not the Constitution allowed it. What they agreed on was that it was undesirable that it happened. It shouldn't have happened. Considering all that, I ask the Prime Minister: how is that going? Next time, he will not appoint a MP in his outgoing cabinet, but perhaps someone with another function that is unauthorized as a double function. He will allow it, because it is not forbidden. Then how's he handling it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u169	I'm not saying we don't appoint a MP in a missionary cabinet. I only think it would be wise for us to say straight away: are you a new member of the cabinet aware that a political consensus has now emerged that this does not tolerate membership of the House of Representatives? That is not what the Chamber is about, but I think it would be wise for us to agree that at that point I myself should refer the matter to those who would join the Chamber. Once again, there is no such intention, and I very much hope that we will be able to speed up the formation so that this situation does not occur again. The second is that Mrs Leijten says: because the Constitution doesn't allow it, you do. I didn't say that. I said that there is a broader consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u170	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u171	In fact, I have had the honour to sit in the opposition with the MP Rutte in the Chamber. We're going back a long time. And I've often seen a repeat pattern. I was looking. We applied the Constitution too marginally. We have made possible something that was not forbidden, but which is undesirable, which is not allowed in the spirit of the law. And we won't do that next time. That's what we should be meeting here. I'm very afraid we'll get constitutional stuff more often where you can do a huge legal exercise. Mr. Bishop called it hair-clubbing. While everyone sees, while it's as ready as a whistle, while it's clip-and-ready all that The Hague terminology that it can't. And I'm so sorry we can't get there tonight, so we say, "This has been very unfortunate. It's no fun for those three secretaries of state. It's very bad for the House of Representatives. We're not gonna do this next time. If there is anything to do with a constitutional issue that affects the Chamber, which affects the functioning of the Chamber, we as a government do not fight over it." And not just in this particular situation. No, we just don't do this anymore. That's what I was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u172	Mrs Leijten is making a point of it, and that is right. From the point of view of content, it is an important point. But if this were so black and white, we would have had this debate immediately after the appointment of Mrs Yeşilgöz. We haven't had that. The discussion arose, also socially, after much broader. That's not wrong at all. It's a good thing we're having that discussion. We are drawing a number of political conclusions from that. But it's not that black and white, absolutely not. In my opinion, it's not that black and white. It is not possible, therefore, because the Constitution says: it is not allowed. I didn't say that. It's a broader consideration. I would ask for some understanding from Mrs Leijten and others to perhaps listen to those arguments as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u173	There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr Ceder. Mrs. Arib, too? Yes, Mrs Arib, then Mrs Inge van Dijk, then Mrs Simons and then Mr Van Baarle. First of all, Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u174	I understand Mrs Leijten, because I think the question is whether the moral compass of the cabinet is properly adjusted. That is in the question of when the cabinet came to the conclusion that the double function, although it could be, according to the cabinet's reading, was undesirable. When did that moment occur? Was that after the letter from the Council of State? Has that been today, when you found that there is a majority politically from the left to the right who does not think that this reading is desirable? When did you come to the conclusion that the situation is undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u175	I don't agree that it's undesirable. I just note that we say politically with each other: we do not think this is wise. I'm dealing with that. I insist that it is indeed possible to appoint people from the Chamber in a outgoing cabinet. It should also be noted that the Council of State makes a number of important considerations as to why it can or cannot, in the end, be able to do so, but also to criticise it. I think that's relevant. In my view, this has shifted since the opinion of the Council of State and the conclusion of the Secretary of State who said: on this basis we do not want to be part of the debate, so we withdraw so that the debate can be conducted purely. And that's how it works with the Constitution. It's not always black and white. The important thing is that you have these conversations with each other. I think that today we are drawing a common political conclusion that I think is sensible, namely: we should not do that anymore. But it's not so black and white that it could or couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u176	Yes, but what I find complicated about the Prime Minister's reading is that, on the one hand, it is said that it is allowed. I do not think we are very different in that regard. It's about whether it's desirable. At the beginning of the speech he says: I still think it is desirable. I think I heard him say that. At the end of the speech I heard: I see that it is a good thing that we have moved forward in our thinking. I'm gonna ask the question again. I'm not asking if you think it's okay or not, because you think it's okay. That's fine. But do you think it is desirable that such a double function can be maintained? If not, when did you change your mind that it is not desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u177	I think the conclusion that we are drawing together is sensible. I can wear it all the way. We agree not to do so anymore on the basis of the discussion that has taken place, social, including from state lawyers, of the opinion of the Council of State and also of the opinion that has been expressed here. No motion has been passed, but I think I can politically safely assert that there is broad support in the Chamber to stop doing so. I think that's a sensible conclusion. I am only arguing that it is a kind of black and white situation, because then we would have had such a heated debate, not fierce but fundamental, following the appointment of the new Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy in May and not now in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u178	I have also heard the Prime Minister say that this applies to the present outgoing cabinet and that it is up to another Prime Minister or Chamber to make a new weighting. Do you not agree with me that this creates an unstable situation when it comes to the interpretation of the Constitution? Perhaps we should conclude that there is a new unwritten rule that we interpret the Constitution in this way, that we should not really want this for this cabinet but also for subsequent Cabinets, that it is undesirable and that we also pronounce with each other that these functions cannot exist side by side and that this also applies to subsequent Cabinets. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u179	If I am in charge of such a cabinet, if that is given to me, and if that is so, then at some point such a cabinet will also be outgoing, and I will not do so anymore. I think that's obvious. But it's not like we're passing a law here right now, so I can't commit that to successors. I can only remind successors of this part of parliamentary history. But as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to add myself to this consensus, so don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u180	Mr. Ceder, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u181	I think we've come at an historic moment. I ask you whether it should be or should be desirable. I believe that we can indeed create a kind of unwritten rule of law that we interpret in this way. That is why I value the words of the Prime Minister, because we can see that today and because this could also apply to future compositions of the Chamber. So I ask you: do you think that future Cabinets should also be affected by the fact that it would be undesirable to allow dual functions to exist in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u182	Yes, I do. But I can't guarantee that a successor won't. Then it is up to the Chamber to respond to that. I can't give you that guarantee. There's no law that says it can't be done. I can only say that I will not do it, not even in the next cabinet, should I have the honour to lead it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u183	It is a gain that the outgoing Prime Minister admits that and says that this will not happen again in the future, at least not under his direction. It's good to see that. But if you hear all these discussions, and also look back on the social unrest that has arisen about the appointments, was it a wise decision to propose three MPs for appointment to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u184	Yeah, that was a wise decision. However, you have to ask the question afterwards whether it was wise to combine this with parliamentary membership. So I am very pleased with the accession of these three talents to the outgoing cabinet, but I think that, in retrospect, given the consensus that we are now establishing with each other and our political stance this evening, we would of course now do so differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u185	They are three MPs who are then nominated for a ministerial post or a State Secretary post in a missionary cabinet. A missionary cabinet is actually just looking out for the store. Except when it comes to covid, as you agreed to with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u186	And the childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u187	And the childcare allowance. Why is it necessary to add three new directors to a outgoing cabinet, which is supposed to look after the store?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u188	That is another debate that Mrs Arib is discussing, but which is very relevant. That has to do with the workload. One would assume that the workload of a outgoing cabinet is less heavy, but it does not appear to be so in practice, because ministers are not making legislation all day. There is a lot of execution, the executive board continues. This is also in line with both missionary and missionary status: doing all that is necessary in the interests of the Kingdom, I believe that this is the formal wording in the resignation of the King. What you are seeing at the moment, I think, is the observation about the last one and a half years, which is that in a number of cases this workload has led to colleagues having to stop. Two specific cases: Bruno Bruins and Bas van 't Forest, the Minister of Economic Affairs. I have also come to the following conclusion: I have said this in other places. Where I always thought to keep the cabinet as small as possible, as a reflection of the desire for a strong but not too large government, I now think it wise to deal less crampedly with the need to limit the size of the Council of Ministers or the Cabinet as a whole in the next period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u189	It's true, the workload, we got that. The same applies to Members of Parliament. Everyone's working their asses off. That's also partly taken care of by taking over each other's portfolios. But I think it is of a different order to propose three MPs as an additional addition to the minster's council. In my view, I am curious if you share that view, and this outgoing cabinet is also working on new policies. Can you just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u190	Your own group chairman called on me to do so yesterday, namely to take up the fight against poverty more firmly. So yes, sometimes that's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u191	No, that was another discussion in a different context. The point is that this cabinet is actually decommissioned and should look after the shop, with the exception of those issues that have indeed been agreed with the Chamber. We see that there will be new policies. Doesn't that have something to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u192	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u193	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u194	Of course, new policies are not black and white either. I believe that there is broad support in the Chamber for the cabinet to try to come to the budget with measures to best implement the Urgenda ruling. With regard to the Climate Act and its obligations, I believe that a large part of the Chamber will agree with the Cabinet that it is necessary to include it as a delegation, even at a time when we have said that, in missionary terms, it is, of course, primarily about corona and the resolution of the terrible affair with the childcare allowance. There are major issues relating to undermining in the Netherlands. Here and there I read in the media that the cabinet would come up with proposals. Of course, I can't say anything about that, but if it were, it wouldn't be crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u195	No, but here's what's important. We all know that there are social problems. We'd like to have a cabinet as soon as possible. We all know that. That discussion was also held. But new policies should be shared with the Chamber and things should not be pushed through by a detour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u196	Where?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u197	Well, climate, that's what you call it. Safety, nitrogen problems, that is also new policy. I'm not saying you should leave it. I say it should be discussed with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u198	Of course. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u199	Agreements have been made on which subjects and which subjects are not dealt with during a missionary period. I see that new policies are being developed. I am confirmed in this by the increase in workload. Three additional directors are added. This new policy is not shared with the Chamber, and I mean in advance and not afterwards. In the end it is always up to the Chamber to say afterwards whether or not to like it. You yourself write this in reply to the questions put by Mr Leijten and Mr Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u200	As Mrs Arib puts it, I do not agree. The appointments, certainly of the last two State Secretarys, were necessary to provide existing vacancies in the cabinet. Those aren't extra appointments. The appointment of Mrs Yeşilgöz could be said to be extra, but this had to do with the enormous workload of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, who unfortunately also led to his illness, and also with the huge issues that lie in the field of climate, also in the light of Europe's agenda. I do not share Mrs Arib's second point either. If the cabinet were to take action on these issues, undermining, climate change, nitrogen or poverty reduction, the point where Mrs Ploumen, the chairman of the Labour Party, was early yesterday, they must of course also be reflected in the budget. These are matters that may or may not be raised on Princess' Day. I agree with Mrs Arib. But neither a missionary nor a missionary cabinet can secretly make policies. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u201	I have also heard your answers and I have a conclusion that worries me a bit. My conclusion is that the moral compass of the cabinet and the moral cabinet of the Chamber are quite far apart. The cabinet claims to have waited for the Council of State's opinion and drawn a conclusion on that basis. At some point the Chamber asked for advice, but at that time it had a feeling of: we should not want this at all. Then I wonder: if that is so far apart, do we have no problem moving the cabinet in the Chamber, but also moving a cabinet in our citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u202	The cabinet has made these appointments in the belief that they are constitutional. I also believe that they are constitutional. There was, of course, a discussion about the desirability and a number of other aspects of this issue. In the end, it was reflected in the Council of State's opinion. I think that tonight we come to a common conclusion that this is not desirable. But I am not going to say here that the current CDA, VVD, Christian Union and D66 cabinet would not have a moral compass here. We have done so in the belief that this was in line with the rules. Technically, that's true, but I think you've got to establish equipment with each other that we don't think you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u203	I didn't say they didn't have a moral compass, but I noticed that there's a difference in the moment that we find "do we have to want this"? And that's what I'm worried about. That's the point I wanted to make, and that's the question I wanted to ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u204	Thank you. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u205	I would like to know from Mr Rutte whether he thinks it is possible for a Member of Parliament to control himself as a govern ment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u206	That is not a desirable situation, but unfortunately it is... For example, in my case, that is inevitable as long as the formation runs. The Constitution also provides that this can be done. Some members of the cabinet control themselves. That is, I think, also constitutionally laid down in 1983. The discussion now is of course what you do with MPs who were not in the cabinet and now join the cabinet. That is the discussion this evening, but as Mrs Simons raises the question, it also affects all Members of Parliament who are in the cabinet and who were elected to the elections in parliament. Yeah, strictly speaking, they control themselves. But of course, in the run-up to 1983, the constitutionalist made a balance of interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u207	I thank Mr Rutte for his answer. It was a yes-no question, a closed question as it is called in jargon. So the answer is not quite clear to me. But let me specify it. Does Mr Rutte think that it is possible for a Member of Parliament, in the current situation, in which we have a outgoing cabinet, which is not outgoing, only... Let me put it this way: does he think that in today's situation, in today's reality, it is possible that MPs who were not outgoing at the time that elections were held and elections were held, at a later stage in that missionary phase can control themselves as a ruler?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u208	Yes, I see no material difference between MPs who become MPs at election date and who are in the cabinet at that time and MPs who join later. I just think tonight's conclusion is that we don't do that anymore. I fully agree with that, given the balanced opinion of the Council of State, the parliamentary debate we are having and the social debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u209	A great deal has been said today about the moral compass. I am very curious about Mr Rutte's moral compass. Honestly, I've been looking for it for a while. The question has been asked in various forms, but since there has been no clear answer, I just have to ask it again. I wonder, therefore, with many of me, whether there has been a moment of something more than a nanosecond in the run-up to the appointment, the nomination, the swearing-in, and whatever we want to call it, of these people, on which Mr Rutte thought "gosh, this is quite complicated"? Or "this is quite undesirable" or "this could lead to unrest in the Chamber or society"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u210	Much of what we do here leads to discussion and even sometimes to unrest. That is inevitable in a democracy. I think that the Council of State reflects in a much more beautiful way whatever is going on in my head. That is that in the end our system is a balance between dualist and monistic elements. The fact that I myself am a MP alongside the outgoing Prime Minister of a missionary cabinet shows that. In this sense, the system has these elements. I think the profit of tonight's debate is that we come to the conclusion that you shouldn't want that after elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u211	Sometimes no answer is also an answer. If you ask someone what he thinks, feels and finds and if you ask him if he even has a moral compass and you don't really get an answer, then... You don't actually get an answer, but you get a story about the Council of State. Then that is also a very clear answer. I'm happy about that. I ask myself the following question, and I have also referred to this in my contribution. Does Mr Rutte, like many Members of Parliament here, also see a causal link... Well, not even causal. Let me delete that word right away. Does he see any connection with other behaviours during this missionary period? And all I'm talking about is the missionary period and not even the period before that, which led to the deportationary status. Does Mr Rutte also see that there is a link between all those mistakes that ultimately lead to scandals and all those wrong assessments that ultimately lead to debates like this? Or does Mr. Rutte think "it's just incidents and we're hopping from incident to incident"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u212	Behind this question are so many assumptions and so many blames I don't recognize. I would also like to say: beware of people who talk all day about their own moral compass. I assume that Mrs Simons has that, I have that myself, and I think that is true of everyone here; we all have our moral compass. Ultimately, the loyalty we have in life is not primarily to our party or the cabinet, but it is our own value, our own belief in how we stand in life. I was able to meet Mrs Simons, even outside the broadcasts. I appreciate that very much. I have no doubt about her moral compass and she doesn't have to talk about mine either. But the question she is asking is so broad and general that there is no answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u213	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u214	Finally, I will specify the question. If I were to ask Mr Rutte to point out this incident in the chain of incidents that we discussed yesterday during the formation debate but also at other times, does Mr Rutte see that this is about matters that are related, whether or not led by a moral compass? Does Mr Rutte see what we are discussing here today as an incident or does he see that we are talking about an incident that is taking place in a context of multiple incidents that are no longer an incident?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u215	This is what I have to read back to the Acts. But I think I have to interpret Mrs Simons' question in such a way that she asks if I think this is an incident. I don't think this is an incident. I think this is a serious discussion that you can have about how to interpret the undesirableness of cumulation of membership and membership of the cabinet, given that in our state system both these two aspects occur. After all, the Chamber controls the government, but we are both legislators. So the Chamber looks down on the Cabinet, or the Cabinet looks up to the Chamber, as its boss in execution, but we are at eye level of each other when it comes to legislation. These are all examples of those dualistic but also those more monistic elements in the system. So I don't think this is an incident. I think this is a serious debate which it is a good thing that we are having and that this evening I have not heard anyone say no to it, and I have not heard anyone say no to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u216	Mr Van Baarle...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u217	Nassau!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u218	...of DENK. Mr Dassen and then Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u219	I would like to ask a question about how the process of weighing up the cabinet went when the first Secretary of State was nominated and then appointed. In his answer, the Prime Minister just said literally: we didn't really weigh it up. On the other hand, he said: we were of course advised. I would like to know very clearly whether, at the time when the first Secretary of State was proposed for appointment, a decision was made whether it could be constitutional. Have the bottlenecks been considered? If that consideration has been made, my question to the Prime Minister is as follows: how can it be that he has missed the sensitivity and the fuss in that consideration and has not foreseen it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u220	Sensitivity and fuss are no reason to do things or not do things, because then we'll never do anything again. What you have to find here is that, upon reflection, I think we come to the conclusion together that it is not wise to repeat this. I think that is the strength of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u221	First of all, the Prime Minister does not answer the first part of my question: was there any consideration then?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u222	That is, of course, implicit and explicit. In the end, you know that someone who is also a member of the Chamber at that time, to whom I am not asking to cancel that membership. We discussed this with two other Members of Parliament after that. These are, of course, considerations that make you like this, where it was our conviction and is that that is possible. At the same time, I think it is right that we now come to a joint conclusion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u223	The Prime Minister points out that fuss and sensitivities are never a reason not to do anything. But this is about our Constitution and the relationship between government and Chamber. So I guess you'll have to do something with fuss. The Prime Minister literally states that these are considerations that you are making in a moment, but I think he is getting rid of them quite easily with the issue of the relationship between parliament and government. In its information, the Council of State states that your answer to the parliamentary questions was brief and constitutionally regrettable. So I would really like to ask the Prime Minister in all sincerity the following. You're saying that this fuss is no reason not to, and you're saying that we just have to weigh it up. But I think the Council of State is very clear: you have weighed it down. Can the Prime Minister apply a piece of self-reflection and say, "Yes, we missed that point. Sorry."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u224	I just gave you a reflection on that. I think it would have been wiser if we had put this more explicitly, including as a cabinet, here in the middle and said: in our opinion this could be done, but we should also find something explicit about it with each other. That was actually just my "I have to take a look" second conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u225	Mr Dassen, and then Mr Wassenberg. Would you like one more time, Mr. Van Baarle? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u226	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad there's that conclusion. I can see a pattern. We are all talking about this new governance culture that we have to work with each other and we have seen the terrible examples of when that governance culture fails: the premium crime. Now we have returned to a moment, with each other, in a very essential discussion, something about the Constitution, about the relationship between parliament and government, is getting out of hand. My question to the Prime Minister is: how can we trust you that in the future you will say 'don't make a fuss', but I think it is an important point that is not missed and that we are going to take that Constitution and that relationship between parliament and government more seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u227	Mr. Van Baarle, isn't that what we have a joint responsibility in as far as this dossier is concerned? First of all, the cabinet has not acted unconstitutionally as I have kept it standing here. That's just not true. This is not at all apparent from the opinion of the Council of State. We didn't act unconstitutionally. We have nominated people for appointment as directors. The question was: 'That is the discussion we are having here today, whether that should not have had any effect on staying a member of the House of Representatives at the same time.' Strictly speaking, of course, that's a responsibility... that's what I think. I draw it towards me, in a practical sense. I think I could have brought that to the attention of myself, including the Chamber. But in the end, of course, it is not a responsibility of the cabinet. The Chamber has a real responsibility there. I am not running away from my part of it, because I think that it would have been logical in material terms. I have just said that if we had said from the cabinet, from myself: do we know that something is happening here that might be under discussion and what do we really think about it? That is my second conclusion. Mr Van Baarle cannot leave this to the cabinet alone. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u228	Mr Dassen van Volt and then Mr Wassenberg and then Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, the Prime Minister states that the dual function of the State Secretary is constitutionally permissible, that is his personal opinion, and that he did not consider it undesirable at first, but that he is now clearly stating here as a Chamber that we do not wish to go along with it. There is something that remains unclear to me. That has not really become clear after Mr Van Baarle's questions, but not before in your answers. You point out very often: it was complex, it is not so black and white and we have looked at it with many considerations. But what exactly those considerations have been remains unclear. I am curious about that, and I should like to take a look at you too, Mr President-in-Office, and I would like to answer that question, because other colleagues will not get an answer to it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u230	I just tried. I have outlined, for example, that the cabinet has also considered this in the answer to the questions put by the House of Representatives that the whole cabinet is outgoing. So the people who are appointed to that cabinet are immediately also part of the collective dismissal application and there is therefore no appointment in a missionary cabinet. That would, of course, lead to a completely different situation. In that case, parliamentary membership would immediately lapse without any discussion. I also said that you could have a discussion in the event of an appointment in a outgoing cabinet. There is also the pearl earlier. We have the cases of Kosto and Dijkhoff, who became Secretary of State. This also leads to a unique, separate royal decision. That is different from when someone, like Stef Blok or Sigrid Kaag, goes from minister to minister. That's not a new royal decision. So that too has happened in the past. At the same time, you also see in the opinion of the Council of State that it is not unconstitutional. So that's what I'm holding up with the Council of State. I think they are right, but they have given a number of considerations which, I think, are also included in the social debate and you can also see them reflected here in the House of Representatives which, in my opinion, bring us together to say: don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u231	What I'm still wondering is why the Prime Minister even wanted three MPs to join the outgoing cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u232	We were looking for good people for those posts. It is then up to the Chamber to decide whether that is possible. That's not up to the cabinet. I did say here tonight that, of course, I am not running away from my responsibility as a whole either. That is why I said here that it would have been good if we had had a more explicit discussion with each other and that I could very well have entered it myself. That's what I said here. I don't like that. We could have done that differently. But we were looking for the vacancies that there were good people. Three people have been found, besides Tom de Bruijn, who came from outside politics to the post of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Minister. For the three state secretariats, people have been appointed from the Lower House. Then it's at least a joint responsibility what you think of those double functions. But, again, I'm standing here talking to myself. As far as I am concerned, I could have raised this explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u233	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u234	Finally. I also heard you say that one of the considerations is to ensure that talented people join the cabinet, partly because it is extremely busy. I don't quite understand that consideration either, because membership is also a very busy job. What has been the consideration of asking three people who already have a very busy job to take another very busy job?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u235	Because it is customary that members of the cabinet who are still in the Chamber are not also active as MPs, other than that they may or may not be at their group meeting and can vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u236	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party and then Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u237	I asked the Prime Minister about self-reflection. He's given a lot of answers that run around, but I haven't heard him reflect on his own role. I also hear the Prime Minister say that today's conclusion is that it is undesirable. Yeah, I can listen, too. I can also see that most groups are critical of it. But I am not asking if the Prime Minister would like to give a summary of what has been said here. I ask him how he feels about it, because it seems that he himself does not have an opinion on this. What does the Prime Minister think of himself? Does he himself find it undesirable or not, and when has that changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u238	I just gave a reflection on my own role, saying I thought it was wise. I have also just repeated in the direction of Mr Dassen that this situation had also been made more explicit by the cabinet, on my part, so that that debate could have taken place. I agree very well with the consensus. Of course, my thinking has also shifted in this direction, also by the Council of State Advice and the sensible action of the three State Secretarys. Mr Wassenberg claimed that we have acted against the Constitution. That's not true. The cabinet has not acted unconstitutionally. This is also evident from the Council of State Opinion. I was going to say that in his direction. That does not alter the fact that I agree very well with the joint conclusion here tonight and also intend to stick to it, as long as I myself, should I have been given the opportunity to lead a next cabinet and thus have been given the opportunity to be Prime Minister of a outgoing cabinet, for example because elections are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u239	I did not say that the Prime Minister acted unconstitutionally. I said that he stretched the law and that he did it all according to his own findings. We are not just talking about the Constitution. The Prime Minister is only talking about the Constitution. We're also talking about the Tickets Act. The Tickets Act is really very clear. The Constitution is indeed unclear. The Constitution says that the combination of MP and minister or secretary of state cannot, unless one closely defined exception. But the Tickets Act doesn't have that exception. The Tickets Act simply says very clearly: if you are appointed MP in the position of Secretary of State or Minister, you will cease to be a Member of Parliament, period!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u240	First of all, I did not hear Mr Wassenberg say that, at least I did not see that when Mrs Yeşilgöz was appointed in May. The second is that, of course, this is not about an appointment in a missionary cabinet, but about a missionary cabinet. This also means that the constitutional article is about the compatibility of the membership of the Lower House and the membership of the Cabinet. That is actually the discussion we are having here today and the opinion of the Council of State is also about. If this debate teaches us anything today, it is not always clear in advance how legislation, laws should be interpreted and applied. There is always interpretation, especially when it comes to state law, especially when it comes to the relationship between the laws mentioned by Mr Wassenberg and the Constitution. We all do that with the best skills. If he asks me what my position is, I say: I agree very well with the conclusion that we are drawing here tonight. That's my moving thinking, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u241	Then let me do some self-reflection. The Prime Minister says: I did not hear you when Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius was appointed in May. That's right. We weren't keen enough on that. That was true for the Party for the Animals. That was true for other groups. That's what I care about. We should have done that. This is not without prejudice to the fact that I am still hearing the Prime Minister say: we acted completely wrong at the time. Let me ask you a different question. Yesterday we had an extensive hearing, thanks to Mrs Leijten. There were five state law experts: two state law experts, two historians and the Chairman of the Election Council. The latter could not say very much, but the other four experts were very clear. They said: this simply cannot be done, this is undesirable and this should never have happened. The Prime Minister has the best lawyers. Then why couldn't he have come to that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u242	I just outlined my progressive thinking on this dossier, also in the light of the decision of the three State Secretary and the well-balanced opinion of the Council of State, which, in my view, puts us in a common position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u243	No, that's really different. The Prime Minister says: "I now find what the majority thinks. The majority are against it, so I'll adjust it." But I don't think that's on his own. He reflects on what the Chamber finds, but not on his own behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u244	That's not true. Sometimes life can also shift your own mind. I have mentioned here how I look at Black Piet and the role of the European Union. These are, of course, very important issues, but we are also talking here about an important issue, which concerns the interpretation of the Constitution. I am not saying that because there is a majority in the Chamber, but because, on the basis of the reaction of the State Secretary, the opinion of the Council of State and the discussion referred to by Mr Wassenberg, I think it is wise not to do so anymore. I just can't guarantee how a next cabinet I'm not in will do that, because then you'd have to change the law or make it explicit. That's a discussion I'm about to discuss, but as long as I'm here, you don't have to expect a proposal from me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u245	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bromet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u246	... to do this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u247	I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Bromet. I suggest that the Prime Minister continue with the questions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u248	Yes. Most of them have been answered by all the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u249	I think the outcome of this debate is something that we all welcome. That is also embraced by the Prime Minister. But what I think we are looking for as a Chamber in all these interruptions is what that development of that thinking is like. Is there regret? Is there also an idea in the sense of: maybe I made an error of assessment when I look back on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u250	I do not understand why it is not possible to shift your mind, especially when it comes to matters such as the interpretation of the Constitution and its consistency with other legislation. Then why was your previous position wrong? It's not that black and white. My mind has shifted. I don't think it's black and white. I don't think you can determine: it's not allowed or it's allowed. That is, of course, always the hard part with these kinds of issues, but the opinion of the Council of State has, of course, led me to think. I thought it wise to say how the three colleagues reacted to this by saying that we do not want to be part of it or interfere with that discussion by continuing to exercise that combination of functions. Then there doesn't have to be an immediate regret or a mistake. It might as well be... I think I'm fairly familiar with the fact that if mistakes are made, I'm willing to admit them. That's what I've done here on a regular basis. I do not think this is a mistake, but I do think that I can share with you how my thinking has evolved, as perhaps others here have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u251	Yes, but I find it strange that this development of thinking power leads all experts to say that it is undesirable, while the Prime Minister has not yet spoken in the word 'unwelcome'. He thinks it is unwise, but undesirable is something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u252	I have now also come to the conclusion that it is undesirable. That's what my mind really shifted into. I agree with those experts. That is a development in my thinking, and I think it should be on this kind of subject, where it is not black and white or good versus wrong, but a question of coherence between all the legal systems and the question of what makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mrs Leijten, would it be helpful if the Prime Minister continued to answer the questions first or would you like to respond to the above?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u254	I often hear the Prime Minister say that he welcomes the opinion of the Council of State which states that the government has not acted unconstitutionally, but that is not in the opinion of the Council of State. It states that there is insufficient ground to conclude that it is contrary to the article. It states that it is unfortunate from a constitutional point of view. It states that constitutional complications do not appear to have been properly and sufficiently well recognised in good time. The conclusion is that, in view of the nature of the matter, membership of the Parliament, it is primarily up to the Chamber to decide whether or not it is permitted under the Constitution. I think it's a big deal for the Prime Minister to start with: I'd do it differently. Then what's behind it? That's what we've been looking for the whole time. Then what can we rely on? That seems rather shaky. He embraces that advice from the Council of State as something to his advantage, but it's hard as nails. It doesn't say that you can say that the Constitution doesn't allow it, but it is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide if it thinks that the Constitution allows it. If we decide this evening or next week in a vote that the Constitution does not allow it, then that is indeed an opinion on the fact that there has been unconstitutional action. It would therefore be a good thing for the Prime Minister not to take an advance on the ruling of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u255	I agree with Mrs Leijten's first, second and fourth paraphrasing. Yes, with what you read; I thought that was partly based on that advice. In any case, I agree with the first, second and fourth, but I do not agree with the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u256	"The third" in the sense that you would not have explicitly weighed it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u257	I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u258	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u259	That is also the criticism of the Council of State about these parliamentary questions. I don't share it, but the first, second and fourth do. In the end, I believe that the joint conclusion is that it is not desirable to repeat this in the future. As long as I'm here, if that's what I'm given, I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u260	But does the Prime Minister agree with me that there is nothing in this opinion that shows that the government has acted unconstitutionally or not? Does he agree with me that the verdict is still in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u261	I don't understand. Surely the Council of State delivers an opinion and says: it is not against the Constitution what happened there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u262	Let me read it to you. So I don't paraphrase, but just read it out: "Conclusion. The Section considers that there is insufficient ground to conclude that, in the circumstances, the continuation of the membership of the three Members of Parliament is contrary to Article 57, third paragraph, of the Constitution. In view of the nature of the matter, the membership of parliament, it is primarily up to the House of Representatives to decide further if it so wishes."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u263	That's not about whether the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u264	So that's what we're doing tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u265	No, wait a minute. I really do not agree with Mrs Leijten. What the Council of State says with that first quote is that what happened there is not in advance against the Constitution. They don't say it was unconstitutional. The second thing the Council of State says is that it is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide whether a Member of Parliament can be a member of both the Chamber and the Cabinet. It is not the case that the Chamber can say ex cathedra that something is for or against the Constitution. The Chamber is not the ultimate interpretive body of the Constitution. Nor is that the constitutional position of the House of Representatives. I'll fight it, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u266	Article 57 deals with the incompatible functions of a Member of Parliament. Whether or not that is compatible applies to this situation, that is what we are talking about tonight. The Prime Minister knows how to turn it to his advantage, but it just doesn't. It simply says: in the opinion of the Council of State, it is not against what stands, but it is up to the Chamber to decide whether it considers it desirable, including constitutionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u267	Where does it say "constitutional too"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u268	No, it doesn't say whether or not you've acted constitutionally...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u269	No, exactly; it doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u270	... but it doesn't say you've been exonerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u271	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u272	Yes! That is what you are arguing for in every answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u273	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u274	Not a little bit, no, in plain terms, in which the first words of melancholy if I had known it all, if it happened again, then we wouldn't do it again just turn out not to be worth anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u275	There's three things going on here. Let me clear them out, then perhaps Mrs Leijten and I will agree. Firstly, I am not using the Council of State Advice to say: I am right. I have even used the Council of State's advice towards Mr Van Houwelingen as proof that the party cartel does not exist, because if that had existed, the Council of State's opinion would have said: the government has acted flawlessly from a to z. The fact that I use it shows that I also see that the Council of State Advice is critical in many parts of the position that the cabinet elects here. Right? That's true. That's one. I think we can agree on that. The second is that I merely point out that the assumption that the cabinet acted unconstitutionally is not true here and there in the Chamber. I can't get that out of the Council of State's advice. I think Mrs Leijten read that too. Then Mrs Leijten rightly says that the Council of State then says that it is up to the Chamber to decide, ultimately, whether or not a member of the Second Chamber can remain in accordance with Article 57 of the Chamber after accepting another post. But I do not think it is so that I am fighting against the fact that our state system is so set up that the House of Representatives is the ultimate body that determines whether something is constitutional or not. That would be my opinion. However, I am not here as a member of the Chamber, but I am standing here as Prime Minister, so I say this with the greatest possible restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u276	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u277	But the House of Representatives is about how the Constitution is interpreted. That's what we're talking about here tonight. We can drop the whole term "unconstitutional." I don't think I took it in the mouth. I said, "According to the spirit of the law, undesirable." That's what everyone says. "You shouldn't have done that." The Prime Minister says, "I wouldn't do it again. I would discuss it with the Chamber, but my lawyers and all kinds of other lawyers all say: it doesn't say that it's not allowed so it's allowed." That is an explanation of the Constitution that I find vulnerable, which is what it is all about all night. The Prime Minister has come to the conclusion that he should not have done so. And then we ask: how do you deal with that in new cases? Are you going to look so strictly at whether it's there as a ban or not, with the idea: then we can take a walk or we can stretch it, whatever everyone wants to call it? We can't get an answer to that. The Prime Minister was just making a joke where he said that if the Council of State were part of the party cartel, they would have given us from a to z right. Since these State Secretarys have waited until the Council of State gave a judgment, the Cabinet does charge the suspicion that it considered that judgment more important than criticism from this Chamber. The Prime Minister has not yet answered this question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u278	I always wonder how that works for Mrs Leijten in the sense that if you agree with each other, she will continue drilling to disagree. I have already said that my conclusion is that it is not desirable to do so. That's also my moving insight. I also said that I would do so on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, which I consider to be well-balanced. However, I have defended myself against accusations that the cabinet has taken a run at the Constitution. I do not think that the opinion of the Council of State gives rise to such a claim. I'm allowed to do that here. If I agree that it is undesirable, then I do not have to make every conclusion of the House of Representatives mine. I disagree with you on that point. I believe that Mrs Leijten's quote is also constructive for the position I am taking here. Thank you for that. Then the question is: how do you proceed with that? There may be a ruling from the Chamber; I don't know. But even if it doesn't, I'll stick to it. That was her last point. I will stick to this as long as I am allowed to do something in this role, in this job, in this cabinet or in a subsequent cabinet. If that were to be outgoing again, I think it is relevant to act in such a way that we do not still appoint people who are in the Chamber after the elections in the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u279	Then I go to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB and then to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy, and then I really suggest that the Prime Minister should answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u280	I don't have much left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u281	No, I think there has been a lot of interruptions. But first, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u282	Something the Prime Minister said earlier intrigued me. He said: well, they don't actually do as much as MPs anymore; they may only attend a group meeting once and they might vote once. I'm actually wondering how that works, attending a group meeting if you're Secretary of State and Member of Parliament. Then what do you do in such a fraction? What are you talking about? Are you a member of parliament, or are you going to bring in a little undersecretary stuff? So how's the vote going? They are often not here in the Chamber to vote, because there is usually just one person from each group at the votes. Has there been any influence on that vote? Has it been said, for example, that we're going to do this at the Ministry, or are we going to do this, so it's okay if you vote in favour or vote against? I'd like to know. How does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u283	That is separate from the appointment of these three State Secretarys. This touches on the members of the cabinet who were on the electoral list at the time the elections were held and then, when the cabinet went on to resign, combined the membership and membership of the cabinet. That really is a question about the functioning of the political groups. That will vary from one group to another. I can tell you that I personally do not attend group meetings on principle. I just can't do it in time. I am often present when it comes to formation, because I also speak about formation. It's not for a reason of purity, it's for a reason of time. But that will vary from one group to another. So I cannot make a general statement on this. You really should ask the various groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u284	Then I ask the only member of the VVD who wears that double hat. How are the Prime Minister's votes going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u285	If I am needed for the votes, I will be at the votes and follow the voting list established by the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u286	Then I understand that the Prime Minister in his position as MP and group leader... or list leader...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u287	I am chairman of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u288	... has no influence whatsoever on what the VVD Group decides. I think that's weird, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u289	It's possible. I could have that. If I had time, I could be totally involved in the group and get involved in anything. But I just can't. By the way, Sophie Herman's group chairman is with us. I'm the last chosen list leader only spokesperson on behalf of the VVD when it comes to formation. We don't know any party leader or anything in my party. Anyway, as the last chosen list leader, I am the first in my party to be in charge of the formation process. I shall try to attend the group meeting on this point. It doesn't always work. But in theory, I could talk about anything. But I just can't do that in time. That will be different for each Member of Parliament who is in such a double position. So that's what you should ask all these people. I think it's about seven, eight now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u290	Then I conclude that I find it very strange in both situations, so as an elected representative of the people, as the Prime Minister is, you do not really say much about that. Two million people voted for you, not as Prime Minister, but as leader of the VVD, and in the meantime you say: I am not saying anything in the group. I think that's weird. Anyway, that's my observation. Otherwise, I'd find it weird, too. So it's always a weird situation anyway. Finally, I have one supplementary question. I'm curious about that, too. Is there anyone in your area who may have been a lawyer during that whole period that we have now been behind us? Is it possible that they may be lawyers; I don't know how many lawyers have ministries and groups, but it could have been someone else who said: you shouldn't actually do this, I don't think this can be legal and if it could, then perhaps it wouldn't be very convenient to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u291	First of all, on Mrs van der Plas' first point. That is, of course, also the tension created by the 1983 Constitutional Amendment. The more than 2 million people who voted for me personally... Although, in most cases they didn't vote for me so much as for the VVD, in which they came to my name by reding the first box. I wish they all voted for me very consciously, but I don't believe that. However, the more than 2 million people who have formally made the booth red by my name, I think, assume that I am trying as best I can from the responsibility I feel for this, to lead the outgoing cabinet through this phase and at the same time try to build a missionary, new cabinet on behalf of the party as soon as possible, which I hope, of course, my party will be a part of. This is how I try as best I can and with all the strength and energy that I have been given to fill in those 2 million votes. But of course, it's always a field of tension. That is also what led to the constitutional debate in 1983: the membership of both the Second Chamber and the government, as foreseen at that time in that particular situation, is a tension. The opinion of the Council of State reflects this also with what it says about the balance between dualist and monistic elements in our system. Uh, now I forgot the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u292	The second question was whether there was anyone in your area who would advise...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u293	Oh, yeah. We have, of course, had discussions on this, also in connection with the parliamentary questions. With us, there really is the conviction, both at BZK and at General Affairs, where most of the people who know it are, that this was a sensible line. At the same time, I have also told you how my thinking has shifted and I think it is desirable to do it as we agreed this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u294	Mr. Van Houwelingen. Or are you, Mrs. Van der Plas... you're looking at me in the eye. I think you have one short question. And finally, Mr Van Houwelingen, and finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u295	I don't have a specific question anymore. I can tell from the answer given by the Prime Minister about the double hat of both elected and elected people's representatives and Prime Minister that he himself finds it rather uncomfortable. But that's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u296	No. I don't find it uncomfortable, but I do see the tension field. I get the tension field, there's a tension field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u297	That's what I call uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u298	No, I wouldn't call that uncomfortable. I wouldn't take that word. In fact, I think it is wise what the constitutionalist did in 1983, namely the members of parliament who are in the cabinet, who are on the list, and who are elected to the Chamber, to allow for the duration of the formation, during the missionary period, to exercise that double mandate. I think that's really wise. But of course there's always a field of tension, because of course you always have to ask yourself: what do I do and what do I not interfere with? This is something that everyone must, of course, take on board. This is quite easy for me, because I have simply not been given the time to attend the group completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u299	Thank you. Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy and, finally, Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u300	So the Prime Minister just repeated that the Council of State is not a party cartel and is quite critical of the government. He suggests: the ball might as well have rolled the other way. The Council of State often has a story to tell, but I am only familiar with examples where the Council of State finally says: it is possible. We have seen this in the withdrawal of the Advisory referendum Act. That didn't deserve a beauty prize, but the Council of State allowed it. The Council of State went after the IRS when it came to it, and now again. Now the Council of State says again: well, it may not be so beautiful, but it is not unconstitutional. I also said it in my speech, but then I have the following question to the Prime Minister. He's the longest serving Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u301	No, that's Ruud Lubbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u302	Oh, Lubbers. Well, okay, but you've been there a long time. Now perhaps I am doing something dangerous, because I am appealing to your memory, but is there one example that the Council of State has mentioned, in all these opinions of the last ten years: no, you have acted unconstitutionally; you have acted against the law? Has there ever been an opinion against your position?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u303	Of course, these kinds of questions are rarely put to the Council of State. That is information, as requested by the Chamber in this case. What the Council of State usually does, so their usual work, is to advise on legislation. And, of course, what you often see when advising on legislation, is that it is said on parts of legislation: if you submit the law in this way, it may conflict with a number of principles or literal articles of the Constitution. That could be in an opinion. That is why a more detailed report is always written by the cabinet following the Council of State Advice, in which the cabinet tries to deal with this advice in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u304	Then there's my follow-up question. Is there one example that you know of in the last ten years that you say: okay, then we were flagged back by the Council of State? One example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u305	You can't, because that type of question is very rarely asked to the Council of State... Mr. Van Houwelingen, do you want to hear the answer? You're so excited. Then I'm gonna go finish it. That type of question is, of course, asked very little. The Chamber has now asked for information, or even an emergency information, on this subject. I think the formal term is "information." It would then be logical for the Council of State, from its responsibility, to devote a consideration to the tension between the Election Act, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, the Constitution and so on. Then these kinds of issues could be dealt with. But in the normal traffic I experience between Cabinet and Council of State it goes like this. We sometimes have dozens of laws in the cabinet every Friday. This is not always large, society-changing legislation, but it is often legislation in important, relevant parts. Then, of course, you have the advice of the Council of State underneath. In its opinion, the Council of State looks at how legislation relates to other legislation and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u306	Okay, so you're saying that that question is very rarely asked, but I still included three examples in my speech. Could you perhaps reassure us and send us an example from those ten years? Well, you don't have to now. Perhaps you could ask civil servants to look into it. I'm very curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u307	This is another question that goes back to Mr Van Houwelingen's attempts to enrage a Higher College of State, and I am not going along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u308	In any case, I would advise Mr Van Houwelingen to read the opinion of the Council of State on the Van Raak initiative proposal on the correct binding referendum and then consider what the Prime Minister thought when he saw it. My question was about what Mr Van der Plas also asked: what is the appointment within the cabinet about how people who are in the Chamber deal with this? The Prime Minister says: 'Everyone has to implement this individually'. But in response to Marijnissen and Leijten's parliamentary questions, he himself says: we have made a number of agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u309	Then you see again the power of those AZ and BZK officials...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u310	They know more about the arrangements!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u311	...who was replying to Mrs. Van der Plas, and that goes very subtle, so I could also order a cappuccino...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u312	A fact check!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u313	...just one more thing. Moreover, that did not prejudice my answer, because I am going to outline to you that there is indeed a general policy line, which I did not give so precisely just now and which is that the agreement has been made that directors who are also MPs do not speak in debates in which co-governors defend government policy. So I am talking about the formation, because that is with Mrs Hamer, but I would not be speaking here in a debate where someone else from the cabinet is in trade-k. It is also agreed that they do not give explanations of vote, that they do not act as deputy chairman of the Lower House and that they do not participate in parliamentary delegations. These are a number of general agreements, so it is good that you remind us of them. That does not alter my answer towards Mrs van der Plas, because there are, of course, still many considerations to be considered. Are you out of your mind at the group meeting or not? Again, everyone deals with that in their own way. Most people are too busy for that. It is a fact, partly as a result of a constitutional change in 1983, that the busy existence of a member of the cabinet is heavily related to full participation in a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u314	And my suggestion would then be to look again at the general policy line. Can it not be made a little more stringent? Because there is still some room between 'only the group meeting and votes' and these limitations. The reluctance as outlined by the Prime Minister could also be included in the general policy line. Where this restraint lies, then, is up to that individual himself, but at least it is normal for the direction in which it is thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u315	What I think is sensible about this policy is that it affects the functioning of the Member of Parliament who is also a member of the public cabinet, so here in public meetings of the House of Representatives, in parliamentary delegations and in everything that is directly visible. The way in which this is dealt with in political groups... I think Mrs Kaag has also been the chairman of the group; I no longer thought. Mr Hoekstra, too, is that with the CDA and myself at the VVD. What we then do at those group meetings on Tuesdays is often an issue which is already automatically limited in the time available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u316	No, I understand that, but then it gets so practical instead of normalizing, while I think... taking part in the debate on the estimation, the budget of the House of Representatives, falls within the general policy line, but given the desired separation of responsibilities, as the Council of State also writes, that is not desirable. In that respect, therefore, I think there may be a little more to be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u317	If you have more examples of this kind... I think that estimate is a good one, because I do not think there is a ruler in trade-K. Strictly speaking, I could then have the debate here at the top of my lungs and I would still stick to this general policy, so that is a good one. Maybe there's more to come up with. I don't know if we'll get the Netherlands out of the corona crisis faster if we find the perfection in this, but it's always useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u318	Yeah, that's a little lame, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u319	That's also true, by the way!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u320	But it's nice to have another look at it, especially since the Council of State says, "Look at it wider." I hear the Prime Minister say a number of times that he has been okay with it since '83, when the Council of State says: it is not. It's sanding anyway. As the cabinet formations last longer and given the relatively large number of members of parliament who have a double function, you should reflect on this more broadly. I do know the Prime Minister as someone who says again in this debate: the system has these elements, and that is the way it is. But I think we are all being challenged here to think about that system at the heart of the matter. Do we not want to change a number of elements to that system? My question is whether the Prime Minister's thinking on this issue has changed over the past ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u321	Not the main issue, but I would like to say to Mr Sneller that he is making himself too small, because this is where he comes in, not the cabinet. The political groups are really up to this. He must therefore decide what Mrs Kaag may or may not do in his group. This brings me straight to a question from the Christian Union, namely whether I believe that a ruling by the House of Representatives on the reading of Article 57 (3) of the Constitution is sufficient, or whether there should also be a constitutional change. So the question is whether this should also be done in a more formal sense. My answer would also be: that depends on the substance of the Court's ruling. A ruling by the Chamber can give substance to a power vested in the Chamber. For example, this could be to give an opinion on a case where there is a discussion on whether there is an incompatible function as referred to in the Constitution. That was the discussion I had with Mrs Leijten. A ruling by the Court of Justice cannot, of course, depart from legislation; that cannot be allowed. For example, it is not possible, within the current constitutional limits, to require outgoing members of parliament to give up their parliamentary membership. That is what the 1983 Constitution provides for. If the Chamber wanted to record that, it just couldn't. Then you have to change the Constitution, because that is now explicitly laid down in Article 57 (3) of the Constitution. I think that Mr Ceder's answer to this question should be as follows. It is ultimately a joint task of Parliament, the Council of State and the Government to see how we deal with it, depending on the ruling of the Chamber now, or at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u322	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u323	It is not for me to discuss the balance between the monist and the dualist elements in our parliamentary system in my group. That is something that the cabinet can certainly have a view on and what it can take initiatives for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u324	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u325	I've named the chosen formatter who changes the balance. The electoral system, which can change that balance, has also been mentioned. There are countless ways to change that balance, restore it and make it more dualism. The Prime Minister chooses to say: it is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u326	I do not think I would give this the highest priority myself, but I am open to suggestions. I found Mr Sneller's suggestion on estimates to be logical. But there may be more fundamental discussions. To be honest, I have not given enough thought to answer that question properly. But I certainly want to come back to that. Perhaps we can discuss this in the context of the general affairs budget, and I think that I will also meet Mr Sneller on this subject. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u327	There is one short question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u328	It's more of an observation. It is news that you are not the chairman of the VVD. Because on second chamber.nl, on the page of the VVD, it just says that you are group chairman. Wikipedia also says that, but well, that can change anyone. But according to this site, our own site, you are still group chairman. So I'd put out a press release tomorrow saying you're not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u329	Thank you. Mr President, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u330	Look. I do want to start with those final words every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u331	Oh. And I'm trying...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u332	But now Mr. Ellian stands up. He hasn't spoken yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u333	It's a short question, Mr. Chairman. Because I understand that interruptions must be short. I ask, through you, Mr President, a very precise question to the outgoing Prime Minister. It's about a ruling from the Chamber, so a motion with a "spoken out of that" dictatum. My opinion would be that that's fine. That can clarify a temporary situation, an actual case. But if you want consistency, you will eventually have to work on the Constitution, or on another related law. Do you also see it that there is more to it than just a motion if the Chamber really wants to change, improve or clarify it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u334	Probably, but I still want to be very specific. It depends on what exactly the text of the motion is. For example, if the motion adopted is about giving an opinion on a case on which there is a discussion as I have just outlined, or if there is an incompatible function as referred to in the Constitution, it is in fact an interpretation that the Chamber gives to the jurisdiction that the Chamber is entitled to. Suppose the Chamber says: Mr. Jansen has to leave the Chamber, because it has accepted another position which makes membership of the Chamber no longer possible. I don't think that's part of the cabinet. I think that the President will be the first to do so in a formal sense. But, of course, Mr Jansen may have taken up a position in a foreign military service, or I know much what exotic casusism we can think of, that the President has not intervened and that the Chamber says to the President: you should actually do so. In such a situation you do not have to change a law, because then it is in fact the Chamber that says: we want to deal in a certain way with giving an interpretation to the powers that come to us. Now, on the other hand, in accordance with Article 57, third paragraph of the Constitution, amended in 1983. Suppose, in a motion, the Chamber decides that it no longer wants someone on the electoral list and elected to the Chamber to remain a member of the Cabinet. If such a motion is to be tabled, the Constitution must be amended. Mr Ellian's question raises the question of how you value this. I cannot give a very precise answer to that, but I think it is going in its direction. I would like to ask that of lawyers in the Chamber and in the Cabinet. You end up in that broader responsibility of Cabinet, Chamber and Council of State. What do you do when there is a motion that says: a member of the Chamber cannot join a outgoing cabinet? Then I can at least promise that I will consider this motion to be a point of departure as long as I can do something with it. If you want to be sure that even in the distant future successors will do so, then the question is whether it is necessary to change the law for that. I'm not sure. Is it enough for the Chamber to make such a statement and thus give political direction to the interpretation? Mr Ellian is ten times more expert on this issue than I am, so I am afraid to say anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u335	No, it's not that bad. And I have seen today that being a lawyer... I honestly say that I have a bit of a nasty taste in this debate when I hear how lawyers are treated. Anyway, that aside. Would the Prime Minister think it would be a good idea to take a closer look at the interrelated provisions? I'm not just asking. You are right to say that I commit to this statement by the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u336	Let's do it like this. I think it's a good suggestion. I must, of course, first see the motion that will or will not be tabled. My opinion on this motion will of course be the judgement Chamber, because I agree if the motion is about that I shall now suspect. Apart from the commitment I have already made on the implementation of the motion as long as I am personally involved in it, I promise that we will also clarify what is needed in a more formal sense in order to sustain it. That's what we're gonna do, but all right, I'm ahead of a imaginable motion. My fine political feeling says that there might be one. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions, I'm afraid to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u337	Yeah, there's no one on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u338	The question has also been asked to me: should not a incumbent ruler be or should he complete her term? It is very rare for a ruler to take up another position. This has only happened to Mrs Van Veldhoven and to Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen. There were also other shifts, but unfortunately they had to do with more sad events, such as illness. They're incomparable with that. But indeed: concretely different jobs. In the end, I don't like it either. I'd rather people stay in the cabinet and finish the ride. But that always remains a personal consideration. I can never go completely into that personal consideration. The main thing I'm saying is, please stay. I also say this: I am very sorry if you leave in the meantime. That's not good for the team either. On the other hand, however, there may be considerations that make that happen. Then there was a question about the recommendation of the European watchdog GRECO, including about revolving door structures. A letter was sent on 6 July on how we intend to implement these recommendations. It states that the present cabinet is considering further measures. These measures relate to post-employment restrictions for former directors seeking new employment and/or about to accept such employment. Part of these detailed rules is also tightening up of that so-called revolving door. In July last year, Minister Ollongren of the Interior replied to Mr Van Baarle and Mr Sneller, members of the Chamber who also took part in this debate, in response to written questions. A revolving door involves not hiring or providing paid assignments to former executives. The Secretary of State will inform the Chamber of this matter in greater detail. All kinds of other recommendations have been made. I am looking at Mrs Arib now, but I really have to look at Mr Van Baarle and Mr Dassen, because they have asked that question. Concrete elaboration of the other recommendations of the GRECO, such as for a code of conduct during the post, will be left to a subsequent cabinet. There was also a question from Mr Van Baarle about the transfer of rulers to lobby organisations. There is no prohibition for directors to join such an institution. However, there is a lobbying ban. This means that for ministry staff, the former executive is not acceptable in any way as a lobbyist on behalf of a company, a semi-public organisation or a lobby organisation representing interests in the policy area of the former executive. This rule should prevent, for a certain period of time, a former executive from using knowledge and position for the interests of the new employer on the basis of the previous function. A secretary-general of a ministry may waive that prohibition. In my view, this also relates to all the ambitions with regard to the new administrative culture. Finally, Mr Ceder on Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen and EZK. That was five days to bridge, not to run the whole department. After Mr. Van 't Wout became ill, someone in the cabinet had to formally take over the leadership. She did that for five days. The ban on lobbying provides that there will not be a relationship of authority between the minister and her or his officials over time, so that, after leaving the service, by returning to that ministry as a former minister and lobbying for a particular interest, perhaps officials or employees because of that old relationship of authority, which is formally then no longer in existence, could say: yet complicated not to listen to it. That's not what's happening here. It was five days and that was a bridge. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u339	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van Baarle and then from Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u340	I was wondering when the Prime Minister was aware that the two directors in question intended to make a switch to another employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u341	I have to come back to that in the second period when that was exactly the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u342	That's fine, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u343	Man and horse, date, second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u344	Yeah, I'm gonna try to reconstruct that exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u345	The Prime Minister states that Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen has been a minister for five days and that there is no relationship of authority, but of course it is more than that. For example, it is a question of knowledge origin and the appearance of conflict of interest, not only that there could be conflict of interest, but also the appearance of conflict of interest. I wonder if he agrees with me that this also weighs and what his opinion is on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u346	No, I really don't agree with that. What's going on? Someone's getting sick. We are looking for a successor very quickly, because someone must be in charge in a formal sense; there must always be a minister from a department. It'll take a few days. In this case, it took five days. That included a weekend, by the way. Then you cannot build such a relationship with the administration that, if you come back there again, people will say: oh yes, we have worked for years. I really don't see it that way. I also think, given the situation, that it is reasonable for the Secretary-General of the Ministry to say that there is an exemption from the ban on lobbying, because someone has only worked here for five days, and has not been able to build that relationship of authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u347	Finally, Mr. Ceder. I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u348	It gets complicated, because then, of course, the question is when does a relationship of authority arise? Because we do not put that question at the beginning, we are creating a grey area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u349	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u350	Would you like to reflect on that? What would you say would be the moment when a relationship of authority was created? This is to prevent future situations. Is it a week? Ten days? Fourteen days?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u351	I'm not going to do that now, but I think it's a sensible comment. Kajsa Ollongren has promised to look very closely at this relationship in any case, even after the resignation of directors. We can involve this issue in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u352	If the Prime Minister is going to take another look at that, I would also like him to bring the following. I find one thing extremely uncomfortable: Cora van Nieuwenhuizen has sat with all the Councils of Ministers, including, for example, the Council of Ministers, which decided that the cabinet would immediately allocate 6 to 7 billion more to climate policy. The Chamber doesn't know anything about that yet, he gets to hear it on Princess Day, but former Minister Cora of Nieuwenhuizen already knows about it. And it's in the lobby circuit right away. He'll be lobbying for the power companies in no time. They have an incredibly important interest in getting these plans at a very early stage. So everything can just be passed on one-on-one to those companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u353	Then you'd have to say, no one can ever pick up a job as a former minister again. This almost goes against a number of constitutional rights that we all have. In the end, you can just pick up another job. That is what you should actually say to the Minister of Education who, after three or four years of being Minister of Education, will later become a lobbyist for the care sector. That minister has also been on all these ministerial councils for three or four years, wherever it was about decisions on the care sector. I think this would go a long way, to be honest. I want to involve this in the broader weighting, already promised by Kajsa Ollongren, of how you deal with the situation after you have been a ruler. But I think this is going a long way. Then you're actually saying that as an old executive, you shouldn't be a lobbyist. That's what you're supposed to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u354	Finally, Mr Wassenberg and then Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u355	No, you don't have to say that, but you can build in a certain period of time for that. Now you're gonna have the next situation. Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen is about to lobby for a number of energy companies. She also lobbies for companies like Shell, Exxon and Total. These are large companies, which they may not have had direct contact with, but which all have an interest in meeting this climate policy agenda. Those companies will soon know about the practice before the Chamber. I find that indigestible. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister thinks that is a very strange figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u356	I find that very complicated. Again, what is the difference between this case and the case of the Minister of Education who is going to lobby for the care sector? Everyone in the cabinet is part of all the discussions. So you should say you can't do that anymore. This will become part of the debate at some point when Minister Ollongren comes back with that somewhat broader consideration. But I think that goes a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u357	On a point of order, Mr President. I think there are sensible questions about a situation that has arisen. I am doing my best, but I cannot see very well the relationship between the compatibility of functions in the Constitution and this issue. That's a long way to go. I would like to make the point of order in order to move on to the debate. This must of course be discussed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u358	This was not part of the debate, but I find the answer embarrassing. Don't ask for jobs. You just have knowledge of power. If you can use them for self-enrichment of companies, then you may need to use your input and integrity differently. We will certainly come back to this at another time, because this debate was on a different subject. I would like to call on the Prime Minister to reply in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u359	I do propose that we continue this debate at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u360	I seem to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u361	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I think there is still a need for a second deadline. I should like to be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP for her second term. Or should I ask Mr Sneller first? Is that convenient so we can keep going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u362	No, I'd like to be the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u363	We'll just wait a little bit. Mrs. Leijten will have a moment to tune in. I call Mrs Leijten from the SP for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u364	Mr. Chairman. Before I read the motion, I would like to say that something is going wrong here. The interpretation of the Constitution is up to the House of Representatives and the Government. If the government gives an interpretation of the Constitution that a majority of the House of Representatives does not agree with, then it is not the case that the House of Representatives has to amend the Constitution. If that is said here, then it is also new state law. It really isn't. It is stated several times in the opinion of the Council of State that the interpretation is to the House of Representatives. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the enforcement of the Constitution is a task for the Government and the States-General jointly and the Constitutionalist has always considered it undesirable for members of parliament to have a double role as a governing body, as laid down in Article 57 (2) of the Constitution;]] [[Considering that there is one exception to this rule, allowing a outgoing executive to be appointed as a Member of Parliament after elections, as provided for in Article 57 (3) of the Constitution;]] [[considers that, regardless of the broad or narrow interpretation of Article 57 (3) of the Constitution, it is undesirable for newly appointed directors to remain members of parliament and that this is also contrary to the spirit of Article 57 of the Constitution;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Council of State of 1 September 2021,]] [[points out that Article 57 (3) of the Constitution should be interpreted strictly, which means that a Member of Parliament can never have a double function after the Member of Parliament has been installed without a double function and that there is no exception to Article 57 of the Constitution except for the situation where a delegate is elected as a Member of Parliament;]] [[further states that, in the event of an unauthorised double function of a Member of Parliament, the President of the Chamber shall maintain the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber, Article 2.2 and, in accordance with Article X 3 of the Election Act, state to the Election Council that a vacancy has arisen as a member,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Leijten, Mr Arib, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Simons, Mr Martin Bosma, Mr Dassen, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Bishop, Mr Bromet, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u365	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. I think we share the conclusion "they shouldn't do this anymore." That's fine, but he says explicitly: that's as long as I'm Prime Minister. If we share that in such broad terms, I think it would be wise to include it in the next revision of the Constitution. I would like to hear how he thinks about this and that he will also look at the general rule of conduct. Then I have two motions on the rules. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the Council of State, the constitutional discussion on the recent appointments of incumbent MPs to executive directors in the outgoing cabinet was not conducted in a timely and sufficiently thorough manner;]] [[Whereas a public hearing with the candidate directors would have increased the likelihood that these questions had come to the table;]] [[Whereas such hearings also provide an opportunity for representatives of the people to question candidate directors more broadly on their suitability and motivation for the intended function;]] [[Whereas hearings with candidate directors can also contribute to greater transparency around the formation process;]] [[calls on the Bureau to table a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure allowing hearings of candidate directors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller, Mr Bromet and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u366	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State draws attention to the fact that the present number of outgoing directors, who are also MPs, is struggling with the desired separation of responsibilities, and that this becomes more relevant as the cabinet formation lasts longer;]] [[Whereas the introduction of the elected reformer, as advocated by the State Committee on Parliamentary System, can promote political blocking before the elections and shorten the cabinet formation;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare and submit to the Chamber a legislative proposal for the introduction of the elected reformer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u367	Mr President, a general comment. I think there will be a lot of motions that do not actually touch the debate. As meaningful as that makes sense, that's actually a shame. We have not discussed this and ultimately the debate is not about it either. We must confine ourselves to the motions, as we always agree as a Chamber, and that is why I think it is part of my role to maintain this and to say here that any motion is of course useful, but perhaps it is better to do so at another time when we have been able to have a debate on it. On the first motion, I have a question. That's about the hearing. It is already possible to just talk to a ruler, both when he has just been installed and when we feel that we should talk to him or hear him. Surely we can announce a constituent deliberations as Chamber by now? Then the ruler should come. That may be an individual MP speaking on behalf of the committee or a rapporteur or a whole committee. That could be a result of a conflict. When exactly is Mr Sneller going to use that instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u368	I think we put it in yesterday. Commissions can organize all kinds of things. A constituent reflection is, I think, how we deal with it internally, but... Look, it's touching on this, I think it's the following. If we did this by default, we'd have that conversation before the appointment. The questions raised by Members of Parliament, for example, in the Committee for the Letters of Faith, could also be raised. If you do that ad hoc again, it's the question when you do and when you don't. By the way, it is also nice if the things we can do have a basis in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u369	Before all kinds of images are created about the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of the Faith, I suggest that Mr Sneller walk with me next time I have to judge that. We need to assess whether someone is Dutch and whether he or she does not have a double function. We don't speak to them. It's not public either. It's not a hearing and it's really nothing but an administrative test. By the way, I'm doing that on your behalf. Thank you for allowing me to do that on behalf of the Chamber! So you shouldn't make it bigger than it is. The point is that we have instruments. A constituent reflection can go a long way. I've been there a few times. We've put it in a couple of times as Chambers Committees. I've been through it at Treasury. We had it at VWS, and maybe you were one of them. That is very useful and very useful. It is above all very substantive. It's very much about the way you work between a ruler and the House of Representatives that you actually want to have. So I wonder where that is different. This is precisely the argument I made earlier: if this is so important, do not do so by motion without discussion, but organise a debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u370	A request to you, Mr. Faster. Then I look at Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u371	My bell is at minus 16, Madam President. That can't be right. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister decided to appoint three MPs as Secretary of State while maintaining their Chambers. At that time, there was no sense of the unwelcomeness of it. But if you make such a decision, you can't say a few months later "well, gee, I made that decision at the time, but I've thought about it again, and if you think it's undesirable, I think it's undesirable" and then insist that your choice at the time was wise. I think that's a very special figure. It is clear to us: as a Chamber, we really must avoid this in future, both with legislation and also with the remark that our President should be keen on the status of Members of Parliament. Finally, I would like to comment on the Prime Minister's replies to Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen's position. Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen has knowledge of how soon 6 billion or 7 billion will be spent on climate policy. The Chamber doesn't have that knowledge at all. But with Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen's knowledge, this knowledge will soon lie with a number of fossil energy companies, such as BP, Shell and Total. This while the Chamber doesn't know it yet. I find that really insufferable. The minister himself doesn't find it uncomfortable. The Prime Minister says he can find it. I find it completely incomprehensible, but all right, we will discuss it later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u372	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Then I look at Mrs. Inge van Dijk. No? Then Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The conclusion in this Chamber and in the meantime the Prime Minister's conclusion is clear: it is undesirable to appoint State Secretary from the middle of the Chamber. The Prime Minister says that we are looking into whether there is a formal need for anything after the Chamber speech we are about to make. But in my opinion, it would never hurt to repeat it in the Constitution in addition to that Chamber speech, which I think is sufficient. I think that's necessary. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that Article 57 (3) of the Constitution should be interpreted strictly, the only exception being the situation in which a outgoing executive is elected to the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to make this strict interpretation of Article 57 (3) explicit in the Constitution by proposing a constitutional change,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u374	The discussion also focused on the influence of the Lower House in the appointment procedure of directors. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that due to a greater supervisory role of the House of Representatives on the appointment of directors, these issues may be addressed earlier and better;]] [[Calls on the Bureau to examine whether a greater supervisory role of the Chamber on the appointment of directors can contribute to better democratic control of this situation and to examine how this could be shaped;]] [[invites the Bureau to take into account in any event the possibility that, in the future, the House of Representatives will decide by majority on the nomination of a candidate for appointment by the Crown, after the candidate has been heard by the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u375	I wonder whether that is not the same motion as Mr Sneller's. But my question is in any case about this motion, involving the Chamber in appointments of directors. We now know the rule of trust. So we're at a distance. I think that is something that we need to maintain, because then you will also be able to keep your distance from the government and therefore control the government well. At the time when the Chamber is co-responsible for the appointment of directors, it will also be co-responsible for the functioning of such directors. If something's wrong, then you're a room part yourself. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u376	First of all, I look at this from the daily standing practice that I have experienced as a city council member. It is common ground, normally, that the city council belongs to a candidate alderman before the college of B and W and that the city council then decides by majority vote whether or not someone can sit in such a college. My experience is that at the front there is a discussion about the suitability of a person and how someone wishes to fill in the position. Then there is the question of trust, which is raised after someone has been appointed or not, about the daily political practice that someone holds or does not hold as a ruler. It is independent of the discussion on the intentions and suitability of a person to qualify for the Chamber's decision to be appointed at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u377	That may well be true, but another example might be that the Chamber is involved in hearing a new ruler and that having heard everything thinks "fine, fit" and later it turns out that such a person, for example, has not provided information about integrity. The Chamber has then agreed to such an appointment. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u378	Let's put two things next to each other. Mrs Arib says very clearly on the one hand: it is good that the Chamber is at a distance so that we can handle that question of trust. I share that in part with her. I think that situations such as this prove that we, as a Chamber, are perhaps too distant at the moment from who becomes a ruler and who does not. I think that we in the House of Representatives should be wearing bigger pants. In my opinion, Mrs Arib was always a supporter of a Lower House who put on bigger pants and now suddenly she says: we should pull our hands off it and we should not interfere with the question of who will sit in the cabinet as a Second Chamber on our behalf. The second component that Mrs Arib refers to is very clearly about what someone will do next as that ruler. That's another discussion. It is about day-to-day practice in the exchange between parliament and government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u379	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Arib for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u380	Mr. Van Baarle, I was just curious about your answer, but you're just looking for a fight at a late hour in the evening. Anyway... Mr. Chairman. I cannot escape the impression that the Prime Minister has looked up the edges of the Constitution and the Law, the Tickets Act, and interpreted the Constitution to his advantage by presenting the three MPs as directors. I do not want to repeat the discussion, but the Council of State is clear on that. I quote: "The Section considers that the two interpretations of Article 57, third paragraph of the Constitution can be justified in all respects." I can't make it up any clearer than that from the Council of State. That is why I supported Mrs Leijten's motion. So I don't have any motions of my own. This evening's profit is that the Prime Minister does say that his ability to think has shifted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u381	Thinking!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u382	The mind has shifted. Okay. That's progress. I hope that these appointments will indeed remain, so never again. To make that clear, I have also co-signed other motions from colleagues. I am also a little shocked by the way in which the Prime Minister deals with this issue and the answers he has given. He's always talking about filling vacancies, like it's a temp agency and a manager who has to find people for a shortage of staff, but it's an important job. Managing director is an important position. It is appointed by the Crown and serves the country's interests. In this context, Mrs van der Plas' question is entirely legitimate. A ruler is not an extension of a political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u383	Thank you, Mrs Arib. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the context of the "not just an incident, but a pattern," I have the following two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Anti-corruption Body GRECO made sixteen recommendations to the Netherlands in 2019 to promote the fight against corruption;]] [[noting that one of the recommendations concerned the introduction of a cooling-off period for directors;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has not followed any of the recommendations since 2019;]] [[Whereas on Tuesday 31 August last, Demissionary Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen quit her duties and immediately switched to a lobby company;]] [[Whereas this has re-emerged the commotion about the immediate transfer of directors to the private sector;]] [[whereas the European Commission has a two-year cooling-off period;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a two-year cooling-off period, setting up an independent review committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dassen, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Bromet, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Simons, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Ceder, Mr Martin Bosma, Mr Arib and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u385	Then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Anti-corruption Body GRECO made sixteen recommendations to the Netherlands in 2019 to promote the fight against corruption;]] [[noting that one of the recommendations concerns the establishment of a mandatory lobby register;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has not followed any of the recommendations since 2019;]] [[whereas the European Commission already uses a mandatory lobby register;]] [[whereas European Member States such as Slovenia and France have also taken concrete steps towards a mandatory lobby register in recent years;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a mandatory lobby register for directors, officials and politicians, in accordance with the European Commission's lobby register,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Bromet, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Simons, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Arib.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my view, it is a gain that we have found, from the left to the right, as well as the Prime Minister, that the situation of dual functions is now undesirable. What I hope will improve is that in advance, before fuss arises, we can adjust the moral compass in such a way that the adage applies "in doubt simply do not." Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. I've already announced it. It's about the leave schedule. I think there is a need for this and that it can partly reduce the democratic deficit that exists today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that membership of the State General and membership of the Cabinet are in principle incompatible;]] [[noting that the Constitution currently leaves room for manoeuvre in the case of cabinet membership in the missionary state;]] [[Considering that the Council of State raises fundamental questions about the separation of responsibilities of directors and members of parliament in relation to an increasing number of members of parliament that combines membership of Chamber and Cabinet and longer-term cabinet formations;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent committee to draw up a proposal for a temporary replacement scheme for outgoing executives who are also MPs and how this can take a workable form,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u387	I have to press the foot pedal real hard every time. It'll take some getting used to as a new MP. I have a question for colleague Ceder. As far as you're concerned, is it a settled matter that this leave arrangement should be introduced? Or is the approach of your motion: let's take a closer look at whether something like this can happen? The answer could be yes, it could be no, it could be, it could be anything. I myself have a motion for a resolution on the setting up of a committee. Could that be part of it as far as you're concerned? Because there are now several committees being sprinkled. That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u388	The answer to your first question is: I ask for an investigation to work out how that might be possible. I think that is a sensible choice, but at the same time I also recognize that there are a number of questions that should be worked out. There would be multiple scenarios. The investigation explains what's possible and then we're going to see if we think that's a good idea or not. I think you're hinting that you want a commission, too. I think it would be very good if this could be part of a committee that is going to investigate several cases when it comes to constitutional matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u389	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u390	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions, the reflections and the sense of sin and the guilt expressed therein. It is good to occasionally look in the mirror and say: that was not quite well arranged. I would also like to thank the President for the answer he has given to the few questions that remain open. I announced that I would be tabling a motion on behalf of GroenLinks, but I did not do so because we joined Mrs Leijten's motion. The operative part of our motion was a little more friendly, but the substance was the same. We wanted to ask the Chamber to state that Article 57 of the Constitution should be interpreted as meaning that it is not desirable for members of the States-General who are appointed in a outgoing cabinet of which they were not yet members to remain members of the States-General. That is exactly the same as Mrs Leijten's motion, but it also states that it should never be permitted and that it should be prohibited. The wording varies, but the content is the same, so that saves you another motion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u391	See, that's another great collaboration. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I'll take a look at Mr. Ellian. Yeah? Mr. Ellian of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said this evening, so I shall confine myself to the text of the motion. It seems to me that I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Inge van Dijk, who is well-advised to anchor a number of things. I think a ruling from the Chamber by means of a motion may be useful for the time being, but if you want a firm solution, then perhaps there is a need for a change of law. That needs to be looked at carefully first, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that increasingly questions arise about the application, interpretation and scope of provisions of the Constitution which relate to the functioning of government and parliament;]] [[noting that the Council of State, in its information on 1 September last, raises a number of fundamental questions concerning the various practices of both the Chamber and the Cabinet concerning the application for resignation of a cabinet;]] [[noting that several questions have arisen with regard to the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber, the Election Act, the way in which the Cabinet is dismissed and how they should relate to various provisions of the Constitution;]] [[Whereas amendment of the Constitution in conjunction with the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber and the Election Act requires careful and thorough analysis and preparation;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a committee which:]] [[analyse the functioning of Article 57 of the Constitution and submit proposals to clarify and/or renew Article 57 of the Constitution also in relation to Articles X 1 and X 3 Tickets Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber;]] [[analyse the way in which questions of dismissal by a cabinet, dismissal and appointment of ministers and secretaries of state who are already members of a missionary cabinet, and put forward proposals to clarify and anchor the way in which they operate;]] [[enter into a dialogue with the House of Representatives on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellian and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u393	I don't think this is necessary. If we state the interpretation of Article 57 (3), it is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u394	I don't think so, because that statement, no matter how important it is right now, is a statement... It is not for nothing that the operative part of your motion reads as follows: Let's face it: I hope not, but it could be different in two weeks. If the Chamber adopts another motion with the operative part "pronounced" it may be different again. So you want a good anchoring and you want to face a stable future... The Prime Minister said: I now commit to what is being said, but I do not know whether my successor will do the same. It therefore seems sensible to me to take a good look at whether Rule 57 actually goes along with the present time, in relation to the Election Act, but also the Rules of Procedure and the role of the President. That has all come up today. That is why I think it would be more sensible to set out the future in the amendment of the Constitution or perhaps the Ticking Act. That's gotta prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u395	What the VVD is doing here, I find really remarkable. You express your opinion on whether or not you thought the interpretation of the Constitution was desirable. Setting up a committee that will examine everything, which will interpret the Constitution in the letter or in the spirit and which will interpret it for us as a Chamber... That is what this debate is about. It seems that you do not want to take responsibility for the interpretation of Rule 57. Where's the VVD? How does the VVD feel about how this article has been applied in recent times? Does she think that interpretation is desirable or undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u396	If I may say so, it would help if you started your interruption with that question. What the VVD thinks, of course, is an interesting question. You're taking a long run. I'm telling you honestly, Mrs Leijten, what bothers me is how you talk about "the spirit of the law." You know, there are thousands of students in this country who get state law in that way. There is a lot to be said about how a provision is made. In my humble opinion, it does not have to be yours, it is important that there should be a statement of reasons, that there should be a statement of reply and in some cases the First Chamber should look into it. All of this can be confirmed by several professors; that is what you usually like to do, which leads to the history of law. After that, people start working on it. In my humble opinion, a ruling from the Chamber is a solution now, surely. The Prime Minister has also widely acknowledged that we are not going to do that anymore. But if you want to perpetuate it in the long term, in a careful way, then I think that legislation is ultimately the best solution. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u397	Finally, Mrs Leijten. Then Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u398	It's gotta off my chest... Mr Ellian just made his maiden speech and we could not ask what the VVD Group thinks. That wasn't clear. Now he sets up a committee and does not yet say what the VVD Group thinks. There's gonna be a you-bake. That's okay; it's part of politics. But what does the VVD group think? Was this handled properly or not handled properly? Is the VVD group going to say that we should not do this anymore? Or does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats say that we are digging into a committee which is not even clear what the outcome should be? It must make an interpretation and whatever that is and wherever that leads... In this way we will park this discussion for the next ten years and we will not have to take a stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u399	You're making it very... That's okay, isn't it? By the way, I do not want to be faint, but you yourself are setting the tone in this whole debate. I have not yet said anything about the VVD's position, for the simple reason that I have an idea that I still want to discuss in the group. That is what we do on Tuesday morning, as you know. I could imagine that Mr Ellian's opinion would be to his group: there are sensible things in the Leijten motion; perhaps it would be good to embrace them. As far as your question about the past is concerned, the debate was held all evening. What more do you want from me than I said in my first term, namely that I think it is a brave decision of the three Secretary of State? In my view, the conclusion is clear: dealing with the Constitution was undesirable, unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u400	Let me try to find the connection, building on Mr Ellian's last remark. One doesn't have to rule out the other. We have been challenged, rightly, by the Council of State: Dear States-General, you are actually talking about interpretation. We ran into a situation that we all said afterwards: that was undesirable. We have considered and there is now a motion in clear language. I could imagine that the line of thought is: we must now mark this point, and we are laying it down in that way. In the meantime, a broader reflection on the whole process is desirable. For that, if I understand you correctly, the committee you are aiming for could have a place in the future. In it it can be investigated whether it is really necessary to legally anchor it with all the horns and bells that go with it, or whether we can leave it with a ruling from the Chamber. In that case, the First Chamber would have to make a similar statement, I think. Anyway, that's verse two. Is that the line you're thinking of? May I make that clear from your last reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u401	You can see me laughing, but that seems to me to be a good idea. I like to do it in the right order. I have listened carefully to the contributions of various colleagues, of you, and I have listened with appreciation to others. And indeed, one does not have to bite the other at all. It is therefore quite conceivable that the VVD will embrace Leijten's motion cum suis and then ask for that clarification, that thorough analysis. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'll explain why in 20 seconds. All kinds of fundamental questions raised by the Council of State have simply not been answered in this debate. Let me mention one: if the Prime Minister goes on his bike to the King, will he do so authorized, mandated by the Council of Ministers or not? If we thought that the position of Mrs Yeşilgöz as MP was incompatible with the position of Secretary of State, does that mean that she was suddenly missionary? Several "lawyers" note that. These are questions that I do think should be answered. This also applies, for example, to Mr Ceder's interesting suggestion. As far as I am concerned, this requires a good analysis. I personally think that the way in which the Election Act is now formulated and Article 57 would be better aligned, of course bearing in mind the ruling that the Chamber is going to make. I don't think there's much light in there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u402	Thank you. Then I'll take a look at Mr. Bosma. I think... Oh, Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u403	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I had to think a little bit longer. But I had also heard a commitment from the Prime Minister. It was about the motion. He said: I'm going to give the motion of course judgment Chamber, and then I'll also see what the scope of that motion is for Cabinets after us. Is it not wise to wait until we set up a whole committee again? This is how we get a lot of work done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u404	That's a very fair question. Together with Mr Van Dijk, I have also really struggled with the question whether we should table this motion. I must confess to you that I also received signals from the Presidium with the intention of not having another committee with us, please. On the other hand, I think we have a responsibility in this. That is why it says 'dialogue with the Chamber'. All things considered and given the complexity of the matter and its fundamental nature, I come to the conclusion that it is a good thing that the government facilitates a committee that maps out all the advantages and disadvantages and all the possibilities. In the end, we will decide on that. I think that is a little bit wider than the Prime Minister's promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u405	I would like the VVD to consider holding this motion until we have received the letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u406	I'll take that into consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u407	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u408	Did Mr. Ellian just say that there has been consultation with the Bureau on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u409	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u410	Not that I know of, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u411	No, no, no. This is another example of suspicion. No, you can ask! But I said I heard that from the Bureau. A colleague of mine is in the Presidium, and he addressed me with a cry for help. He said: everything is being deposited with us; can we please not put all kinds of committees at the Bureau every time? That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u412	Well, that's a good explanation, isn't it? That is, by the way, contrary to your suggestion that you had not discussed what your position would be today within the VVD Group. I also hear from our member of the Bureau how things are being thought about there, but ultimately the Chamber decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u413	Thank you. I think we've come to the end. I'll take a look around. Mr Bosma waives his second term. Mr Van Houwelingen still wants to keep his second term, and I think Mrs Van der Plas too. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u414	Thank you. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the independence of the Council of State vis-à-vis the government can be questioned on a regular basis;]] [[Considering that an effective division of the two main functions of the Council of State (legislative advice and administrative justice) is necessary to remove doubts as to the integrity of this institute;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the judicial role of the Council of State can be assigned to the Supreme Court so that the Council of State can devote itself fully to its task of providing advice to the Government and the States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u415	So this motion calls for an investigation. It's a very reasonable motion, I think. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for MPs to be part of the government;]] [[decides to amend the Rules of Procedure in such a way that membership of this Chamber automatically lapses as soon as a member of parliament joins the Government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u416	I've had a closing argument here before, and then I had two more, so I thought, let me choose now, whether one or the other. There's something I'd like to say. The Constitution is based on moral rulers. Actually, I'd like to give you that. That's what it's supposed to be. A debate like this is not supposed to take place at all, because that is what the Constitution is about. Therefore, all kinds of complex adjustments should not be necessary if moral rulers were to behave morally. That's one. Secondly, I would like to come back briefly to that double hat. There are now eight members of parliament who, as I understand from Mr Rutte, do not have time to do group work. They cannot therefore carry out their duties as representatives of the people. That's eight people. And out of those eight people, there are two who voted about 3 to 3.5 million people. Voters have therefore voted for these people, but these people do not carry out their duties as representatives of the people. I'm not going to make a motion on it, but I actually want to make a call. Eight people who could do so and who could carry out their duties as representatives of the people are now on hold because these people hold their seats. I do not like this for democracy, I do not like it for the image and I do not like it for the many Chamber work that has to be done here. I would therefore like to give this consideration to the directors who are now occupying these places. It might be a good one for the Council of Ministers on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u417	Clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u418	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. The Prime Minister has indicated that he needs about ten minutes to prepare himself. I'm suspending the meeting until about 10:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u419	I give the floor to the Prime Minister to give his appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u420	Mr. Chairman. Two more questions. First of all, how I look at the constitutional review in order to clarify Article 57. That was a question from Mr Sneller. I think that's really something for a next cabinet. It requires thorough preparation and discussion. If today's conclusion were to be that a committee would be set up for this purpose, that committee would have to look into that too. The motion of VVD and CDA may be useful. I heard on 9 July, no, on 6 July from Mrs Van Veldhoven and on 23 July from Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen that she has a new post, but that she will not hold it until the cabinet has stopped. Well, a whole story, but in the end, the conclusion was, accepting that job means stopping right away. And that, as you know, happened at the end of August. Then I'll get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u421	There is a question from Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u422	For the moments you were aware, did those two former executives have any conversations with their potential new employer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u423	I'll take that. Mrs Van Veldhoven told me on Tuesday 6 July that she accepted another position. On 23 July I heard from Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen that she had a new post which she did not intend to hold until the cabinet has ceased. At first, her idea was: I'm gonna sit down until the cabinet comes to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u424	Is the Prime Minister aware that there has been a violation of the government's own integrity rules? It states that a member of the Executive Board must first submit the intention to hold discussions on a future job to the Prime Minister for approval. You just indicated that those calls took place before you knew about them. So there has been a violation of the integrity rules of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u425	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u426	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u427	Integrity rules...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u428	The intention to hold talks must first be submitted to the Prime Minister for approval. If you indicate that there have been discussions before that and you have not approved it, then there has been a violation of the integrity rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u429	The blue book does indeed ask rulers if they are talking about another job to report to me, but it is not an obligation. It's not a legal obligation. It is an urgent request and it is ultimately up to the govern ment whether they do or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u430	Finally, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u431	Then what are the integrity rules of the cabinet worth? You state that it is a request and not an obligation. Then that whole blue book could be in the trash can. It is shocking that you, as Prime Minister, say that as a cabinet, we have a blue booklet containing integrity rules, but that is not concrete; it is not a law and we can deviate from it. That's what you're supposed to maintain, isn't it? I'm asking you again. The integrity rules have been violated, because you have not been asked for permission as Prime Minister before the talks took place. Are you prepared to condemn this and what are you going to do about it to prevent your own integrity rules being used in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u432	The conclusions drawn by Mr Van Baarle from the blue book are not correct. It's not a law, it's urgent requests to colleagues about how you deal with each other. It's not like I can force that along the roads he's sketching here. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u433	Finally. I conclude that all the debates that have taken place in this house, also in connection with previous reports in which the Netherlands has been flagged by European watchdogs, on the basis of which this booklet was then drawn up in order to say'see how hard we are working on integrity', are in practice worth nothing if it is merely an urgent request. In practice, it's not worth anything. That scares me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u434	Mr President, I am going to the motions. I will really leave this on Mr Van Baarle's behalf. The motion in part No. 6 of the SP is a speech-expression, so I don't give advice on that. Looking at the signature like that, my assessment would be that this motion has some chance of success. The motion in part No. 7 on the hearing, I advise against. Although it is a "spoken" motion, I would like to comment on this. The introduction of hearings on candidate directors is affected by the confidence rule. Directors have the confidence until it turns out otherwise. We can't change this by motion. This really calls for more. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 8. This proposal was also part of the report of the Remkes State Commission. The cabinet stated in its opinion on this report that this proposal was not accepted. I can imagine that a new cabinet will look again with the Chamber at the whole process of formation and conduct a broader investigation into it. That was also in the cabinet's position. Then the motion to part No. 9. I would like to say to Mr Van Baarle that, if the motion of CDA and VVD were to be adopted, the order would be that which goes first. That'll be step one. This could result from what Mr Van Baarle is asking here. Mr Van Baarle has already drawn a conclusion on the motion of VVD and CDA. Perhaps it is also a thought that this element is added to the motion of VVD and CDA. I must, strictly speaking, discourage the motion now, because it is not appropriate in the time order. Mr Van Baarle's motion for a resolution 10 is a request to the Bureau. I don't have to give advice on that. I would ask for Mr Dassen's motion on item No. 11 on GRECO. There will be a letter from Minister Ollongren of the Interior that she is in the process of looking at the situation after someone has left the office. The question of the cooling-off period and the independent review committee are involved. I wouldn't want to get ahead of this part right now. The cabinet's position is coming up. Against this background, I would advise Mr Dassen to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u435	I'll just take a look at Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u436	I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u437	President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 12, about a mandatory lobby register. I don't recommend that motion. The maintenance of a lobby register concerns integrity policies during the post. I have already said that the elements of the GRECO recommendations for the post are left to the next cabinet. The motion also contains a number of practical points which need to be considered. The motion in part No. So I'd like to dissuade 12. Then there is the motion by Mr Cedar and Mr Dassen to item No. 13. I agree with the need to look at this issue in depth again. I welcome the brief interruption debate that I heard between Mr Ceder and Mr Ellian, so that, should these motions be adopted, we could perhaps combine both subjects together. In fact, it's intertwined. I could just imagine that. But all I can say is how I'm going to vote. You know that by now, namely what my party votes in the Chamber. Should the motion be in part No. 14 getting it and the motion in part No. 13, too. Maybe you can put it together. I would also like to say this in the motion for a resolution on item No. 14 of VVD and CDA. I therefore refer to the motion on item No. 13. It is good that there will be an in-depth investigation into the whole issue of Article 57 Constitution and related questions of dismissal and appointment. On both motions, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u438	I have a question about this. These are requests to the government to set up a committee. When it comes to the interpretation and design of the Constitution, is it customary to ask the government to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u439	I don't know. But we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u440	Yeah, well, we'll figure that out... we'll mess around or rustle for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u441	With a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u442	With a cup of coffee, exactly. But I'm serious. We say here all the time that it is up to both the Second and the First Chamber, the States General and the Government, to interpret the Constitution. I understand the verdict is "Room." That's the disadvantage of motions that don't go around right away. That all makes sense because of corona. Otherwise, however, I could have asked the proposers whether we would have liked to put it to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u443	In the end, of course, this is indeed a tripartite, because it is also the Council of State. That's true. But I think the motion says that the government is setting up a committee to engage in dialogue with the House of Representatives. In the end, it will be a co-production, and it will have to be, because you have to get 50% and two thirds for that constitutional change the first time and two thirds for the second time. You're never gonna get that if we're gonna come up with brilliant things in splendor isolation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u444	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u445	However, we all know that in the composition and commissioning of a committee you can give quite a blow against something. I wonder if that... Anyway, I'll record that with the authors of this, because I don't assume that's the intention at all, I'll just say before there's any... But I just wondered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u446	I understood the discussion between you and Mr Ellian just as well that there is a chance that the VVD will vote in favour of your motion and that this will be useful afterwards, because it calls for a much deeper consideration of all the consequences. I think those two are interrelated. If the cabinet takes the lead in dialogue with the Chamber, can't it be fine? I don't see any major problems there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u447	Perhaps it would be useful if Mr Ellian could respond for a moment, because it is about his motion. First Mrs Leijten and then Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u448	It is, of course, always a question of how the government adjusts the motion, but at least I assume that the Chamber will vote in any case. Whether there will be a committee now or in the future on the revision of constitutional issues, that will always have to be a co-production from start to start. We all know that the people who do it, the wording and that kind of thing are also crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u449	This is a legitimate question from Mr Leijten. I imagine that the committee's decision, its working methods and so on will pass through the Chamber and that we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u450	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u451	I actually see the government as a facilitator. It facilitates the creation of a committee, but I would say that it must be a co-production in which we have a very important part to play. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u452	I have just been told that it is customary for the cabinet to set up such a committee, in this case at the request of the Chamber. I was a little insecure about that, but that is also common practice. Maybe this is the answer. It probably happens more often that you then discuss the terms of reference with the Chamber and come together to a more detailed interpretation of such a committee. Maybe we should do it along those lines if that motion is passed. Then the motion to part No. 15 by Mr Van Houwelingen. I advise against this motion. I have already said the necessary things in the first term, Mr. Van Houwelingen. We have decided for a few days at the request of the Supreme Administrative Court itself to leave this issue to rest. I don't want to break that deal. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 16 is a motion in which the Chamber talks with itself, so I am not going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u453	I have an administrative point. Two more signatories to my motion, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u454	Well, that's a nice piece of work. That really brought us to the end of this debate. But first, Mrs Van der Plas is going to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u455	I would like to request a roll-call vote on these motions for the next vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u456	About all the motions or a specific one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u457	On all the motions tabled here and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u458	Okay. Then we're gonna organize that. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-7.u459	We're going to vote next Tuesday. It has been announced that these are also roll-call votes; then we can also try out how that will work in B67. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his detailed reply. I thank the Members of Parliament, the few people who are still sitting in the public gallery, and the viewers at home, and I close this debate.
