ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35613, Amendment of the Labour and Care Act, the Working Flexible Act and any other laws related to the implementation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance of work and private life for parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU (PbEU 2019, L 188), simply the Parental Leave Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u2	I would ask Members to exercise some silence in the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the law on parental leave. Until now, parental leave in the Netherlands is something you are entitled to, but you have to bear the cost of it yourself unless it is otherwise regulated in the collective agreement, but there are not many collective agreements that arrange it differently. The present bill will put an end to that. To begin with, we think that this is extremely good news. The proposal lays down that parental leave has been paid for both partners for the first nine weeks, at a level to be determined. I'll be right back at the last. It is up to us that we need a boost from the European Union for this. There is sometimes a debate on whether the European Union should intervene in social policy. As far as we are concerned, this is a good example of the fact that the EU is also issuing directives in the social field that encourage Member States to change their behaviour positively. We always like to involve this in other countries, but we must also involve ourselves in this. The central motives of the EU directive and the legislative proposal are fully endorsed by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. In short, there are two. The first is a better balance between work and private life and the second is the promotion of equal treatment between men and women. The latter is done by increasing the participation of women in the labour market and by eliminating income gaps between men and women. You can only agree with that. In any case, we fully agree with that. That was the good news. If we then look at the impact of the legislative proposal on this, we are a lot less positive. Our concern, which will surprise no one, focuses on the chosen level of payment. Not just because we want a few percent more or less, but because the chosen level of payment has a direct relationship with the proper functioning of the law, i.e. whether this law is going to do what it is being created for. We are very concerned about this and we are not alone in it. Various aspects, including the Foundation of Labour, have expressed great concern at the fact that the Dutch Government has opted for a 50% level of payment. The key question is whether with that 50% the goals of the law will be met. That is not a question of left-wing or right-wing parties. I have followed the debate in the House of Representatives very closely and I can see that this question is widely shared. Actually, the reasoning is super simple: the more you need your income, the less inclined you will be to turn in half your income for nine weeks, and certainly not both. That luxury can't afford anyone. So what's the trap? The trap is, on the one hand, that this arrangement works well for people who still have enough money. By the way, their paid parental leave has also been granted, but this actually increases existing contradictions. The second risk is that households that have much less to digest are driven: let us do it for one of the two, and then those that deserve the least, and that is in many cases the woman. Thus, while the aim is actually to promote women's labour market participation, it may well be that gender inequality is being strengthened rather than weakened. That's a big deal. This is at odds with the objective of the law. This is part of the heart of this debate in the Chamber. What does GroenLinks want? Well, GroenLinks just wants to pay 100%. That sounds a little utopian, but it is not at all, because we do so on maternity leave. That's not something crazy we're making up right now. That's quite possible. In this way you prevent people with low incomes from facing the cynical choice or, in turn, passing by either for two months or twice two months living on or even below the level of existence. Now, in the answers to questions we have asked about this, you calculate that it would cost an additional 900 million. Honestly, I didn't really get out of there, so I'd like to have a little more explanation there. It is very high for us, because the cost of implementing the proposal as it stands today is 350 million. The second 50% would add another 900 million. That's a big deal! The second question we have is whether the positive labour market effects have been taken into account in this calculation. If you pay 100%, you can assume that the use will also be almost 100% and that therefore the objectives of the law will be met in optima form: so more equality, more labour market participation and therefore all economic effects. It is, of course, complicated, but we believe that the sum of these figures should be taken into account. The one about our wish. But you know us like no other. We're realist. We see that we can't get our hands together for that 100%. But for 70% of the daily wage it might be possible to get the hands on each other. This is a common percentage in social security, which is 50% much less. Of course, 70% of payments also have negative effects, but in any case to a much lesser extent than 50%. That would therefore be a significant step in the right direction. The additional costs would be around 200 million. That is a lot more within the reach of the feasible. It has been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives. A third letter of amendment came after the debate. It states that although the percentage is set at 50%, the Royal Decree allows that percentage to be increased to 70% before the law enters into force. That is, of course, extremely interesting. It's also a curious translation, if I may say so. Because between now and the entry into force of the law, no experience can be gained with that law. So you can't say "the evaluation teaches us that..." So if it is not based on experience, then it is purely a question of political will. And if it is a matter of political will, I actually read: here you do not need to confirm, but rather do not want to deny it. I actually read that the Minister says: I can't get it done, but hopefully my successor will. That's what it says in that passage. But then, of course, I would like to help the Minister, or his successor, his successor in law. Perhaps the Chamber would also like to help the Minister. So we are considering, having heard the debate, tabling a motion to implement the provision contained in the law, that KB may raise the percentage from 50% to 70% before the law enters into force, provided for in the middle of next year, and to call on the government, the cabinet, to go to that 70%, so actively to give effect to the percentage. I say "we're considering tabling a motion." Of course, I also like to listen to the debate. If it does not stand a chance, yes, then we can do it for the stage, but if I look at what has been said about it in the House of Representatives and the opening that you give in the third letter of amendment, it would just go in the right direction. You may also find it interesting to hear the Court's opinion on this rather than giving its own opinion on it. That would be our suggestion. Then I'll come to my closing questions. In a nutshell, I've already asked. What exactly are the positive social effects taken into account in the cost calculation? I understand that this is complicated, because there are, of course, all kinds of assumptions. But, yeah, that's what models are like, they're assumptions. We understand this, but my question to you is whether we understand this correctly, because the figures are not clear. You're also admitting monitoring. In any case, we could agree that, in the monitoring and, of course, in the evaluation, the positive social effects are quantified as much as reasonably possible and are therefore taken into account in the sum. To sum up: a good direction, but unfortunately extremely half-hearted. It's literally half-hearted, because you're sitting at 50%. We lack opportunities with that, and that threatens to miss the law's goals. That is actually a broad view, and we hope that we will be able to follow that broad view here by saying as broad as possible as a Chamber: be sensible; you have opened the door to that 70%, so open it further. In addition, we naturally ask that we do not wait too long to evaluate. You have already taken the evaluation period from five to three years. Well, we're going to sit at 70%, then I'm fine with those three years, but if we're going to sit on that 50%, I'd say bring that evaluation up a little further. This is, in fact, the next time that we have a few more facts in our hands to have this discussion again. We await with great interest the Minister's reply and, of course, the contributions of the other parties, who will undoubtedly speak on the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Mrs Stienen has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we're dealing with the law on paid parental leave. This legislative proposal is intended to implement an EU directive aimed at "helping to achieve the balance between work and private life and equal treatment between women and men by removing the gap between women and men in terms of income and pay." It's a mouthful. My group supports the cabinet's efforts to contribute to a more equal distribution of care responsibilities between parents after the birth of children. In addition, the D66 Group also hopes to have a positive impact on the employment rate of women. We are aware that, in addition to this legislation, there will also be a need for a cultural change, in which it becomes increasingly obvious that fathers also take care of their children from the very beginning. In preparing this law, I went back to the legal history that contributed to a better participation of women in Dutch society and the enhancement of equality between men and women. Many of us in this Chamber have parents or grandparents who have had to deal directly with legislation that has affected our views on the roles of men and women in our society and on who is responsible for the care and education of children. Think, for example, of the Tendeloo motion, from 1955, so that married women were no longer released from public service. Or think of the law of 1956 that lifted women's capacity to act. And, of course, there was the 1980 Equal Treatment Act and the 1990 European Court ruling that women and men should be treated equally in the building up of their pensions. In 1990, I was 25 years old. And now when I tell my 23-year-old daughter that her grandmother and her mother weren't eligible for a supplementary pension, she can't believe her ears. It's only been a very short time. This legislative history therefore also shows that legislation is standard-setting and can influence our behaviour. After all, according to law, the man was long regarded as a breadwinner and head of the family. That wasn't taken out of the law until 1971. I do remember conversations, including in my own environment, in which I was told: I take care of foreign affairs in our family and my wife takes care of home affairs. We suspect that this is still the case in many places. These cultural and social standards are still reflected in our society. Let me give you two examples. I do so because my group believes it is important to take a close look at the context of this legislative proposal. Dutch women are part-time champions in Europe. Three quarters of Dutch women work part-time. Partly for this reason, one in three women are not economically independent and on average receive 40% less pension than men. The fact that many Dutch women work part-time and therefore are not financially independent and the low political participation of women makes sure that the Netherlands is in place 31 of the Global Gender Gap Index of the World Economic Forum. At football we would find this a very low score, wouldn't we? Yes. Another example: after the birth of the first child 37% of women work less and 6% even stop altogether. Last year, the CPB showed that mothers' income fell by an average of 46% in the eight years after the child was born compared to the income they could have expected if they had not had children. That income will never recover. Fathers' income doesn't fall. I know a lot of people think this situation is a choice. And that is why I would like to quote the Minister's answer to the written question from the Party for Animals. In it, he refers to a 2019 CPB study which shows that there are four factors that affect the employment rate of women: individual factors, social standards and culture, policy and structure and functioning of the labour market. Various studies show that many parents would like to share care and work equally. Of course, this requires much more than the law we are dealing with today. We all know the line. Examples include affordable childcare, breaking roles and employers' attitudes. My group takes the view that the introduction of paid parental leave can indeed bring more balance between work and family responsibilities. This is of course good for women, but also for the fathers, the partners of mothers and, of course, the children. Following on from Mr Van Gurp's questions, I am also interested in assessing the social impact when it comes to the first thousand days of a child. What does this law actually mean for children's health? What are its social effects? A big question, but interesting for the success of the implementation of this bill, I think. We believe that this bill can help to give parents an opportunity to play an active role in the care and upbringing of children from birth. We also believe that this will give women more room to be more active in the labour market and give fathers more opportunity to take care of their children from the outset. It is clear that D66 is pleased with this bill, my group chairman has already said so, but we still have a number of questions. First of all, my group also has questions about people on low incomes. For a person with a minimum wage, it is often more difficult and expensive to take parental leave than for someone with a modal income who has the space to set aside savings for a loss of income during parental leave. We agree with GroenLinks' observations that someone with a minimum income is likely to give up this leave earlier, because it is simply not financially possible. For our group, it is important that this group of partners should also be able to take this leave. According to international research, but also according to research by Atria, the knowledge centre for emancipation and women's history, the turning point for fathers to take advantage of this leave lies at 80% of the daily wage. D66 would also have liked to see 70%. 50% seems to be too little. Can the Minister indicate the possibilities for this group to make use of this arrangement? How will this group be addressed in the information campaign? We just saw the news of a possible new role for the Minister. Maybe he can take this to the table where this might come up, but maybe I'm getting ahead of myself. In addition, the D66 Group has a question about the complexity of the legislation. Can the Minister explain how this scheme relates to other legislation on leave and childcare? And can the Minister indicate how he will make this clear to people who want to make use of the scheme? I went to look at all those websites and it's not all B1. If I had to apply for this again, I might get lost in the complexity of what you have to do as a parent, I thought. Furthermore, my group is not entirely satisfied with the Minister's reply to our written question on the consequences of any errors in parental leave applications. Does my group see it right that the possible fall in income could also have an impact on allowances, such as rent payments, childcare payments and health care payments? If mistakes have been made by the employer when applying for the number of hours and parents only find out about these errors later, is there a hardness clause? In other words, what repair options are there for parents if they have wrongly received too much compensation? Would the Minister like to go through this step by step? Finally, the D66 Group has another question on the evaluation of this legislative proposal. Can the Minister indicate how he intends to measure the outcome of this bill? Suppose fewer partners are going to apply for the scheme than is currently foreseen. As far as my group is concerned, this does not immediately mean that the scheme has not been successful, because perhaps not every mother's father or partner will put a finger on it immediately. In addition, my group would like to hear how the Minister intends to include employers' attitudes in the evaluation. It is precisely because of these cultural and social standards that I mentioned earlier that it is still not logical for some employers that fathers want to be involved in caring for their newly born children from the outset. And we would appreciate it if there would also be good examples of employers who are generous in introducing paid parental leave. I recently heard a small example of a director of a department where the mothers were given a birth basket and the fathers were not. She has established that the fathers also receive a birth basket at the birth of their child. It's all these little things, but it does show that fatherhood can be important from the start. Finally. It is precisely because legislation is so important in changing social and cultural standards that I went back this weekend to the Acts of the handling of the legislative proposal Abolition of the legal capacity of married women. The acceptance of this law allowed married women to continue working, open a bank account and travel without the permission of their husbands. 1956, huh? It is remarkable to read how, on that 12th June 1956, just over 65 years ago, feminism was mentioned in this Chamber, as in Mr Piet Witteman's quote. I'm just not making this up; Mr. Witteman said this. And I'm also looking at this behind me, because it's such a beautiful quote from the fifties. I quote Mr Witteman: 'I told you, Mr President, in this sense, I believe we have all gradually become feminists. And I can assure you that we, as Catholics, are certainly not left behind in that. We also shy away from men who spend their family income for selfish purposes so much that there is too little left for women, who still have the task of caring for the family and raising children." Further on in the Acts I read how Hilda Verwey-Jonker, at that time the only married woman in the First Chamber and thus still incompetent, compliments Minister Van Oven. I quote: 'Finally, I would like to express a word of appreciation for what this Minister has done before and during his ministry for the emancipation of women in the Netherlands'. And that compliment was right, because that law, which was so important for the emancipation of Dutch women, was given the name "Lex-Van Oven" for a reason. He'd been working on that since the late 1920s. And, on behalf of my group, Mr Koolmees, I would like to give a similar compliment here, following Mrs Verwey-Jonker's compliment, on behalf of my group, because the commitment of Minister Koolmees has also been crucial for the emancipation and participation of women and the role of fathers in caring for their children. I am thinking in particular of the Law on Extra Birth leave, the WIEG, and the Law on paternity leave. It would be nice if the Parental Leave Act could be added to this. And as a cultural Catholic, I say all good comes in threes. As far as my group is concerned, we should even call these leave arrangements, which contribute to equal parenthood, 'Lex-Koolmees'. We await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u7	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. After this history lesson, I had one question and one comment, by the way. I had five children. My wife and I always got our presents together; so not for my wife or anything for me, but for both of us. But my specific question is: does Mrs Stienen agree with me that people should also be able to make a different choice, so that, for example, care and labour are distributed in a way that the partners themselves decide and choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u8	I understand the question of choice. Of course, we're liberals. We are in favour of individual choice, but we are also in favour of the history lesson of conditioning. And that conditioning is: Daddy makes the money and Mommy takes care of the kids. We hope that with this bill there will be more room for people to make a different choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u9	In any case, it is a good thing that we can all make our own choices and that people can do so, and not everyone chooses only on the basis of conditioning. For example, people opt for family care. People are dealing with children's disabilities or with someone who, for example, is abroad for defence purposes. So there are a lot of people's choices. But I am glad to hear that Mrs Stienen also welcomes the free choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u10	If I may respond briefly to that: we all buy a lottery ticket, or a lot of people do, and hope that that State lottery ticket is the winning lottery ticket. But that hardly ever happens. What is a realistic assessment is that one in three relationships is broken. That means a huge loss of income for women. The children of that woman also often suffer a great deal from this. The feminisation of poverty in the Netherlands is a major problem. Look at the income gap between men and women when it comes to retirement. I think it could be better arranged by offering that other choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u11	Mrs Stienen and share the enthusiasm for emancipation. If I have listened to her input correctly, we also share a concern about the percentage provided for in the present legislative proposal. So I don't quite understand why she seems to be thrilled about the present bill. How does that relate to Atria's research, which shows that the percentage should be at 80, if it is to be effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u12	I am particularly enthusiastic, on behalf of my group, about this Minister's commitment to emancipation and participation. I think that is particularly appropriate today to mention that. Indeed, we share the concern and hope that it will reach 70%. That is why we welcome the possibility in this legislative proposal to go up to 70%. I am very curious to see how the Minister will respond to the suggestion made by Mr van GroenLinks, because I would be very sorry if only people in certain income groups could benefit from this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u13	I'm glad the confusion has been removed from me. We're talking about this bill today. The concern is to what extent it is effective. I'm glad the concerns are shared. I am very interested in the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u14	Thank you. Mr Ester has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u15	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations from my group to Mr Sent, our chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. We wish her every success. We'll miss her. Mr. Chairman. Recently, a remarkable study was published by Erasmus University Rotterdam showing that social retardation is already taking place in the first few years after the birth of children. The data show significant differences in weight, language skills and psychological and social problems between young children of poor and rich parents. Social inequality, the researchers conclude, is already beginning in the cradle. The seed for school success and future life opportunities is already laid at a very early age, even for the second year of life. This study shows how decisive the first period, shortly after the birth of a baby, is. The ESC also points to this. This also shows the essential role of parents in this critical phase, of both parents. Parental leave, including the division of labour between fathers and mothers, can play an important role in this. And that's where the government comes in, not as a patronizing director of the private domain, not as a patronizing conductor of family life, but as a serving government that facilitates parental leave, which assists new parents in the rush hour of life, in which care, education, work and career struggle for priority. A family phase that requires a lot of agility, resilience, improvisation and combination skills. That is in the interests of the young child, of the parents and ultimately of society. Given the rapid backwardness of children from lower socio-economic environments, the cost of taking parental leave should not prevent them from taking this leave. There lies the link with the bill we are discussing today: introducing paid parental leave in the first year after the child's birth. It's kind of weird that the Netherlands doesn't have paid parental leave for both parents. The leave arrangements we now have are unpaid, in the sense of the lack of a legal obligation to pay. However, all kinds of agreements can be made at collective or company level on payment during parental leave. In this sense, my group welcomes the directive to introduce paid parental leave. It relieves young parents at a crucial stage of family formation and offers breathing space in the gap between work, care and private life. A non-transmissible scheme which amounts to nine weeks paid parental leave for each of the parents at 50% repayment. This is in addition to the additional birth leave of up to five weeks, compared to 70% of the salary, the so-called "WUE" scheme. Our question to the Minister is why this Brussels initiative was necessary at all. Why didn't the Netherlands come up with this before? After all, we are dealing with our own social policy. This raises and raises questions about subsidiarity and proportionality of the present legislative proposal. The government recognises this tension, as demonstrated by the negative assessment of subsidiarity and the partly positive, partly negative assessment of the proportionality of the European directive. A yellow card was even drawn in the House of Representatives. The Christian Union Group needs a further fundamental weighting on this point. Where does European involvement begin in the social domain and where does our national responsibility end? Let me say in all honesty and openness that my group is also struggling with this issue and that it is not a black and white issue. But social policy has always been a bastion of sovereign national policy, and that seems to change. We must realise that and we must not let this movement slip away without further discussion. A reflection by the Minister on this essential point would be very much appreciated by my group. I also think that his missionary status requires some space to draw some chalk marks. I do not see him nodding quite convincingly now, but that will be evident from his answer. The already fragmented leave system does not, in any case, make it any easier. In addition to paid parental leave, we know pregnancy and maternity leave, birth leave and adoption leave. This variety of arrangements, conditions and procedures makes the whole system rather complex. The UWV also indicates this and, from my mind, the Smeulders/Van Weyenberg motion calls for simplification. The ESC even speaks of a patchwork. I would like to ask the Minister about the simplification of the leave system. The government has also announced, following the Tielen motion, an accessibility test that would be ready after the summer. Is the test, as I ask the Minister, now available? And what are the results of that? Many workers do not seem to be well aware of the variety of schemes. How is the Minister going to shape the communication path? Mr. Chairman. My group strongly calls for attention to be paid to adverse distribution effects that this legislative proposal evokes. Some of them have already been reviewed. I would like to mention two groups that we are concerned about. First of all, the 50% payment scheme means a sensitive financial drain for lower-income parents, including, for example, flex workers. In fact, the scheme offers hardly any relief here. This is true, secondly, to a greater extent for the single-earners and the single-parent families among them. They come very quickly below the social minimum. Half their net income is simply not a real option. I would like to ask the Minister if he shares this worrying diagnosis. Is this not contrary to basic requirements of justice and fair public policy? What does the cabinet have to offer these two groups? Calculations show that increasing the payment system to, say, 70% of the daily wage costs structurally a sloppy 190 million, on top of the structural implementation costs of 360 million in the 50% variant. That's a lot of money, but it's not insurmountable either. How does the Minister, also heard the discussion in the House of Representatives, assess such an increase from 50% to 70%? I have already noticed from the previous speakers that this is going to be an important line in the debate. Would this not substantially dampen the adverse distribution effects? The Labour Foundation also comments on the level of the proposed payment of 50%. It would please the Minister if he did not easily refer in his reply to the formation table, as he did in his letter of 19 April. I also know him as an independent thinker. Is it no longer obvious to finance leave entirely from collective resources and not partly from the increase in the Aof premium for employers? As a potential informant, the minister here, I think, can do a blessed job. In line with these concerns, my group points out possible gender effects. Figures on the inclusion of current unpaid parental leave show that men take leave significantly less often than women. This obviously has to do with the average higher salary of men and the more part-time work of women. What exactly is the Minister's expectation on this issue? Will paid parental leave reduce gender differences or perhaps tighten them up? Will men significantly increase their share? No matter how you spin it or turn it, men may also be encouraged to take responsibility at the early stage of parenting and family formation. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group invites the Minister, in the evaluation of this bill, to pay explicit attention to the social side-effects mentioned for certain groups, the lower income groups, the single-earners and the single-parent families, and to the participation of men and women. In view of the European context of the proposal, my group also considers it important to include the drafting of the European directive in the evaluation in the other Member States. Can the Minister give my group a commitment to this point? We thank you for that. Mr President, I will conclude with this question. The Christian Union Group is in favour of a more generous parental arrangement, and this bill fits in with that. It is good to relieve parents when their children are born and to assist them in caring tasks and in the stress that combining these tasks with the performance of work entails. It's good for the newborn baby to be able to attach to both parents. However, the bill raises questions about social side-effects and about our national direction in the social domain. Mr President, I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Mrs Sent has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis seemed to offer opportunities to share care tasks more fairly between partners. Many partners had to work at home during the lockdown. The hope was that it would be more self-evident for fathers to take on more care tasks and that this would also make the distribution of care tasks more equal in the long term. In February of this year, however, sociologist Katia Begall had to find out that this breakthrough was not there. In this way, the additional care tasks associated with home education often came to lie with women. Also in the cultural field, views on the gender distribution of care tasks according to Begall proved to be even more traditional than for the corona crisis. The distribution of care tasks has an ethical dimension, but also an important economic component. About six out of ten partners in the Netherlands indicate that they want an equal distribution of work and care tasks. Eventually, only two out of ten Dutch parents succeed. Research carried out by the CBS also shows that on average, women return 46% of their income when they have a child, where men's salaries remain about the same. These parents mainly mention financial reasons for this. The partner who earns the most continues to work. In most cases the father is still involved in the Netherlands. The PvdA therefore fully supports the government's intention, following the EU directive, to introduce paid leave as a means of reducing the financial threshold for taking leave for both parents. However, we doubt whether the government's commitment is sufficient to achieve the goal of an equal division of care responsibilities. Mr. Chairman. The most important innovation in this legislative proposal is the proposal to extend parental leave. Parents may receive 50% of the salary during the nine weeks' leave to be taken in the first year of a child's life. My group, with previous speakers, wonders whether this percentage is sufficient. For example, WOMEN Inc. and the Rutgers Foundation argue for full paid leave in these nine weeks. They are based on several studies which show that leave is most likely to be taken in the event of a reimbursement of 80% or more. Mrs Stienen referred to this as well. My group therefore questions the effectiveness of a 50% benefit rate. The government expects an increase in the benefit rate from 50% to 70% to make a relatively small difference in the number of persons taking leave and the length of leave, but on what basis does the government make this assessment? Carmen Castro García and María Pazos Morán do not reach that conclusion in their article Parental Leave Policy and Gender Equality in Europe. The government mentions the higher costs as a reason to keep the benefit rate at 50%. But does the Minister agree with my group that a more equal distribution of care tasks is the objective and that the choice of 50% or 80% should depend on reimbursement? What is his response to our fears that few people will take advantage of this new paid leave, as it has now been designed? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group also has doubts as to whether paid parental leave is open to all. The government indicates that it is possible to get below the minimum wage when taking leave for parents of a lower income class. My group would like to stress that for parents with lower incomes, the financial barrier to taking leave is the greatest. Mr Ester has already mentioned this. The government states that it is not possible to make a real calculation of whether people with the amount of the benefit can make ends meet and whether the amount of the benefit can be an obstacle to taking leave. The EU Directive states that when determining the level of payment, Member States should take into account that people can make ends meet and that the level of payment should not hinder their inclusion. How can the Minister guarantee compliance with the EU Directive? In addition, the government states that the impact of the leave scheme on different income classes is taken into account in the evaluation. Is the Minister prepared to adjust the benefit rate if it appears that it has not had a positive effect in lower income classes? That point weighs heavily on us. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the calculation made by NRC of the effect of additional partner leave using the online calculation tool becalcuithet.nl. This shows that taking supplementary partner leave for people with an income around the minimum wage is more expensive than for someone with a modal income. The reason is that their income falls much harder due to tax effects during leave. In the case of supplementary partner leave, people can receive 70% of their salary for five weeks. For most people, this partner leave leads to a net loss of income of 20%, but the lowest income decreases due to negative tax effects around 30%. The disadvantage is the greatest around the minimum wage. A minister's spokesperson acknowledges that minimum income has relatively less benefit from the extra partner's leave, the newspaper writes. Professor Renske Emperor of Erasmus University adds, I quote: "If you are already struggling as a family to make ends meet, you will think again if you have to turn in more." My group believes that this calls for an adjustment of the supplementary partner's leave. For the legislative proposal before us, this means that we are asking the Minister even more intrusively whether a calculation can be made using the aforementioned calculation tool. If that calculation also shows that the level of payment does indeed create an obstacle to its inclusion, what can we expect from the Minister? Mr. Chairman. The unequal distribution of care tasks requires a wide range of measures, according to the government itself. For example, money has been made available to improve access to childcare and campaigns have been launched in the past to raise awareness about the distribution of care tasks. What difference have these measures actually made and what results can be attributed to them? Even more important is the demand for the future and the additional measures envisaged by the Minister to address the unequal distribution of care tasks. In addition, my group wonders how parents will be made aware of the changing arrangements after the present legislative proposal has been introduced. I'd like a response from the Minister. I'm rounding up. For the corona crisis, the emancipation of women in the Netherlands was improving, although the inequality between fathers and mothers is persistent. During the corona crisis, mothers delivered heavily on their leisure time, experienced more work pressure and gave them more trouble with the balance between work and private life. But there also seems to be some reason for optimism. Although mothers still do more care and household tasks than fathers, their fathers do more. However, there is the important question of how we encourage this equal commitment. My group very much hopes that the legislative proposal before us will make a positive contribution to this, but has doubts about its effectiveness and accessibility. That is why we call on the Minister to make a commitment to monitor in good time the effectiveness of the legislative proposal before us and to inform the Chamber about it. We are therefore looking forward with particular interest to the Minister's reply to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Mrs Prast has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We owe this bill to Europe, which lays down minimum requirements for paternity leave, parental leave, care leave and flexible working arrangements for workers who are parents or carers. The EU makes it clear that the measures to be implemented are a minimum requirement and encourages countries to step up their efforts. I am focusing today on parental leave, to which most of the previous speakers have also devoted their stories. The aim is a more equal distribution of care for children, a better link between father and child, a better work-private balance and equal opportunities for the development of men and women. These are important goals in the eyes of the Party for the Animals. So before I studied the bill, I thought, "Who could be against it?" This is not yet explicitly an explanation of vote, but in the meantime I think otherwise. This is due to the way in which the cabinet implements this directive. Let me explain. But my first question to the Minister is whether the cabinet supports the aims of the directive. According to the Directive, parental leave paid must be at least two months per parent. Despite the European Commission's encouragement, the cabinet is almost at this minimum: nine weeks instead of two months, but it is about the same. That's not much from an international perspective. Our main trading partner Germany gives parents twelve months together and if both parents take leave, they get another two months. More and more European countries introduce a full year of paid parental leave, to be distributed among both parents. An important reason for this is that there is scientific evidence that children who are cared for at home in the first year of life by someone who loves them, are less aggressive at a young age, are more social and obey better. The neurological development in the first year is affected and that is irreversible. Later school performance is also better and at a later age children who have grown up are less depressed and have less concentration problems. Parental leave in the first year is therefore very important for the well-being and future of children. Ultimately, society as a whole also benefits from this. According to the Animal Party, it is our job in this house to take account of the welfare of those who do not have a vote. This bill includes children in their first year of life. If you see how much importance we attach to education and prevention, you'd think the cabinet would be full of commitment, also financially, at that first year of life. Despite this, the Netherlands continues to pay a maximum of nine weeks' parental leave. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, if this is only for financial reasons. If not, what non-financial reason is there for this minimum leave from the directive? Not only the length, also the payment of leave proposed by the cabinet, is disappointing. That has been pointed out before. It remains to be seen whether this is true of the directive. According to the Directive, the payment of payments must also enable main cost-earners to exercise their right to leave. The directive does not quantify this and the bill provides for a halving of income. According to the Minister, households can cope with this loss of income by spreading leave. But leave must, rightly, be taken within a year. Its inclusion therefore results, spread or not, in a gross annual income drop of 8% for mothers and 10.5% for fathers. I have yet to meet the first union to accept such a decline in collective wage. Can the Minister explain why he chooses this low percentage and why he believes that only 50% of the payments are in compliance with the directive? I also ask the Minister whether it is true that the UWV has the time to pay the 50% up to six weeks after the first parental leave day. Let me give you an example. If the first day of leave starts on 30 October, the payment may not arrive until 11 December. Is that right? This would mean that a main cost winner with a modal income taking a month's parental leave, instead of receiving €2,200 around 24 November, will now receive around €1,200 on 11 December. That's right, that's what I'm asking the Minister. The cabinet expects 60% of fathers and 80% of mothers to take paid parental leave. Mothers record an average of eight weeks and fathers record an average of four weeks. That would mean that thanks to the bill, mothers will be home for an average of 6.4 weeks and fathers will be home for 2.4 weeks on average. The Minister himself writes that the inclusion of parental leave shortly after birth leads to a more balanced distribution of care tasks, provided that the difference between men and women in the inclusion appears to be limited. Does the Minister find 6.4 weeks versus 2.4 weeks a limited difference? Are these an average of 12 days extra parental leave really going to significantly improve the relationship between father and baby and his work-private balance, as the directive envisages? The cabinet is aware of research that shows that 80% of payments are needed in order to achieve the goal that many fathers also use the leave. Why doesn't the Cabinet do anything about it? The Minister has not considered what the use of parental leave will be according to income class. But research into the intention to use paid parental leave, with an analysis of background characteristics such as income, is easy to do. Is the Minister prepared to have this investigated? The Minister rightly writes that a cultural change takes time. Research shows that men hesitate to take leave because of the deviation from the social norm. Most fathers need an offer they can't refuse if they want to explain that they temporarily exchange the workplace for the lazy inhibitor. With half the income, that story can't be sold and we can wait forever for that culture change. On the suggestion of the PvdA Group to make the standard choice for taking paid leave, given its impact on behaviour, the Minister replied that the cabinet wanted parents to make an informed choice. Does this mean he's rejecting behavioral economics? Is he not aware of the fact that the silent choice is seen as the recommended choice? Or would the cabinet indeed recommend that people not take paid parental leave? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Has the Minister considered paying parents taking leave in full, providing part of the loan, for example 30%, in the form of an interest-free loan? For example, the loan must be repaid in quarterly instalments up to the child's eighth or eighteenth year of life. I'd like a response from the Minister. We need to invest more in social capital, as I argued in the debate on Invest International. Paid parental leave is such an investment, because it promotes the health of young parents and their children for the rest of their lives. The cabinet is not prepared to pay an additional 900 million for the 100% payment of leave and does not even have an additional 190 million for a 70% payment. To put these amounts in perspective, 2 billion will be spent next year on the maintenance of roads. I have one last question before I finish. Does the Minister have any idea of the effect of this form of paid parental leave on the choice for more children? Does it affect the number of children that people... "Take" isn't the right word, but you know what I mean. Is that taken into account? I'm rounding up. My group supports the introduction of paid parental leave in the interests of children, parents and society. However, this legislative proposal does not yet appear to contribute sufficiently to the objectives of the directive, including a better private work balance and more equal opportunities for indoor and outdoor development. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I now give the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's possible. Just a few weeks ago, I finished my contribution to the debate on the balanced distribution of men and women in supervisory boards with a quote that I would like to quote again today. The government then asked, in response to the question on European regulation, "the government has always taken the view that this issue is a matter for the Member States and not for the European Union'. That sounded like music to my group. I promised to remind the government at other times of this clear statement. Now, three weeks later, it is already time, because now the government is starting with this law with the following sentence in the explanatory memorandum: "The present legislative proposal is intended to implement Directive EU 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance of work and private life for parents and carers'. Mr. Chairman. This is a pity: we are being guided by European regulators by a law on the organisation of our society. We have to fight this red tape and this meddling, don't we? Especially when it comes to the way in which we want to organise our family life. In fact, my group does not only believe that the EU has nothing to do with this, but also that the defiance of the government must be contained. There are already a lot of incentives that put pressure on people to enter the labour market, which does not reflect the value of aspects such as family care, education of their own children, etc. The ordinary citizen has no idea how strongly his life is influenced by the government's desire for a kind of fifty-fifty society. The explanatory memorandum states that "by opting for full payment of parental leave, leave would also be more attractive for fathers and could contribute to greater gender equality." What exactly is this supposed to mean? A father is just a father, isn't he? What does that have to do with gender equality? In response to a question I have on this subject, the Minister writes that this makes taking parental leave more attractive, which can contribute to a more equal distribution of care responsibilities between men and women. Again, what is meant by gender equality in this context? This is just about the position of men and women, isn't it? In addition, why isn't there just room for parents to arrange for themselves how they want to deal with the distribution of parental leave? The government does give the credit to employers and employees that they are well able to reach a mutually workable solution for both; why should this not be the case with the parents of a child? Isn't it much better to just give parental leave at family level, where parents themselves keep the freedom to get a good distribution? As you know, the SGP has for many years been deeply concerned about the position of a earner who pays up to seven times more tax than two-earners. If the government were to opt for some kind of family-level payment scheme, it could also benefit a earner, because 50% of them will cut off a lot of families, as many have said. The government is also aware of the risk that with the chosen rate of parental leave for lower income groups and earners, insofar as they have a lower income, is less easily accessible. I note that the measure is being used to exert pressure on the distribution of work and care within the family. The question arises as to whether the effects mentioned here on parental leave and the division of labour between men and women will actually occur. My group regrets that another incentive has been put in place in which the government intervenes in the household and the family. Mr. Chairman. There is another very important point. With regard to the whole group of beneficiaries, it is stated that "In the case of unmarried cohabitants, it is not excluded that multiple persons living together with the child's mother at the same address through their individual employers apply for a benefit for paid parental leave. In the case of multiple partners, UWV will carry out additional investigations into fraud." In response to questions from the SGP on this issue, the government states: "If UWV's data show that several persons in addition to the mother have applied for paid parental leave for the same child, this is clearly a signal of possible abuse." How is it possible in the world, my group asks that several people call for parental leave? Isn't that the only thing that's reserved for mom and dad? Then where did these multiple people come from? How does this work in the case of multi-parent families, in which it concerns a legal father or mother, a biological father or mother, etc. In other words, can the government indicate how it will work out in the future if, unexpectedly, several people will claim the right to parenthood? Mr President, I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u22	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I now give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. What we are doing today is dealing with a law implementing a European directive. No more and no less. Whenever legislation comes from Europe, there is a call for subsidiarity in this house and also in the government. After all, in the Netherlands, we can do so well ourselves. We don't need the EU for that, do we? But, Mr President, I was a Member of the European Parliament for a very long time. I once cried a little angry to my European successors, too: what would have happened if the directive on equal pay for equal work had not been adopted so long ago, in 1975? We owe Europe our entire social system of equal treatment for men and women. I would add: not only to European legislation, but also, in particular, to the judgments of the European Court of Justice. As a very young Member of Parliament, I remember very well a debate we had under the chairmanship of Mr Dolman. It was then about the introduction of the WWV also for women, equal treatment and how it should be financed. All the women rose and Mr Dolman very cynically shouted: are there any more women in the room? We are talking about subsidiarity, but we owe Europe a great deal in terms of equal rights and equal treatment for men and women. I will begin with this because we have also had the debate on subsidiarity here in this House in 2017 and approved the drawing of the yellow card. Those who spoke on behalf of the CDA Group, Mr Wopke Hoekstra, then voted against it on behalf of the CDA Group. We agreed very well, because at that time I was in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. This is about history and the good that Europe has done on this point too. In the written rounds, the CDA Group indicated that it is indeed looking with a positive attitude towards the draft law implementing the directive. For greater balance between work and private life for parents and carers is crucial for us Christian Democrats. There must be a balance in the care of partners for each other. But surely there must also be sufficient time and care for children, and that of every partner in a society. So stimulate men and women to take on care responsibilities. This law gives a nice interpretation of that principle. This legislative proposal can promote participation in the labour market. That's what the government writes, and that's the goal. We all know that we have big labour market shortages. In fact, everything will have to be taken out of the box to encourage people to participate in the labour market. This proposal for a law makes it possible, in theory, for partners to combine work and care tasks. In theory, because I can still see some problems. My colleagues have already mentioned this. We, as the CDA group here in this House, but also on the other side, have called for attention to be paid to the implementation problem. Advisory Board on Control Pressure says that a joint application for supplementary maternity leave and paid parental leave will ease implementation. The UWV also sees problems. The complexity of the leave system is not conducive to the accessibility of the scheme, quod non. It provides for enforcement risks to domestic staff with an employment of less than four days per week, and I quote the UWV, which is a number of risks of improper use. What do I see in the written report? I can't believe the government's been waving these problems away. What the lectures want is quote "leads to more complexity." The opinion of the ESC, which considers that the current leave arrangements linked to the employment contract are unclear and more streamlining is needed, is also being pushed forward. I am not saying that the government disagrees, but it is not being taken over, it is being pushed forward. Mr. Chairman. I note that the number of schemes to which a parent has a right absolutely requires this streamlining. That is certainly true, as colleagues have already indicated, for the percentage of the benefit: 50% for paid parental leave, other arrangements unpaid or a full payment. On this point, the government says that an official review has been carried out for the revision and simplification of the leave system. That's a good thing. Let us begin now, says the government, says this minister. In fact, increasing the percentage from 50% to 70% costs 190 million. Mr Van Gurp has already mentioned it. Soon the increase from 50% to 70% will be very easy to do. I have to tell you that I have not yet seen any law in this House that makes up 70% of the law and includes an article in the law that says: we can very simply go with an RB to 70%. I haven't seen it. But it's in the law. Mr. Chairman. That means there's something going on. It seems like the minister's ministry, along with this minister, because of course he is responsible, did not get through somewhere else and then put it in the law for a while, because imagine we can do something after the elections. I don't know. But I would like to invite the Minister to say something about that. The members of the CDA Group accept the argument that it is now mainly about the early implementation of this directive. The CDA Group would like to participate in this. But we still want to hear the reasoning for choosing that 50%. Mr. Chairman. What I would also like to hear is whether, with that 50%, we are not risking an infringement procedure from Brussels. If I look at the directive, it is different from what we can show here with the 50%. Mr. Chairman. In the written preparation, we also asked questions about the effectiveness of these measures for the employment rate. At that time we also took the view that a higher percentage of participation in the scheme, ergo the employment rate, would serve more. I'd like a comment on that, too. And looking at this potential increase from 50% to 70%, I ask what the Minister will do if he also sees the problems with participation. Mr. Chairman. We also see, and this has been mentioned by colleagues, that supplementary partner leave with a benefit rate of 70% of the maximum daily wage is detrimental to people on or around the minimum wage. They lose 30% as a result of taxes, while people sitting on modes lose 20%. Mrs Sent has already spoken about it. This also hampers participation. I'd like a comment on that, too. What has disturbed me a little, Mr. Secretary, is that somewhere in the papers I read: you can spare a child before the arrival of a child? I wonder if people with the lowest incomes are capable of doing that. It's not that simple. Mr. Chairman. We therefore ask the Minister, looking at the intended labour market perspective of this measure and having heard our comments on the effects on the lowest incomes, to reconsider whether we should not increase by now. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u24	Thank you, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. I now give the floor to Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u25	Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group has a number of questions about this bill to the Minister. The VVD Group is not yet fully convinced that one of the aims of the bill, namely to keep working longer or to increase the number of women, is being achieved. The VVD Group still calls for a reflection from the Minister. The legislative proposal concerns an extension of a number of leave, namely paternity leave, parental leave, family leave and care leave. With this last enlargement, the VVD Group still has some difficulty. She also has some questions about it. If the VVD Group has understood correctly, the amended bill allows one parent to take care of the child at home for more than seven months. Unlike current law, this also applies to employers with fewer than 10 employees. There is no possibility under the legislative proposal to derogate from this by collective agreement or by contract of employment. The VVD Group does not yet fully understand how a small entrepreneur can drive his or her business efficiently if an employee stays home for seven months. This is particularly true if two workers were to invoke the law and, for example, one worker would be sick. The VVD Group asks the Minister to go into more detail about this than he has done so far. The VVD Group is aware that if parental leave were to be taken into account in the company, the employer would have the possibility, subject to the worker's agreement, to determine the schedule of leave differently because of a significant business or service interest. The VVD Group asks the Minister what a small employer can do if the employee does not agree. In addition, it would like to be further supported by what could be a valid business interest or a significant business interest. The case law on this is rather erratic and not entirely clear. That does not help the feasibility. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group asks the Minister which countries have already implemented the directive. While the previous response gave an overview of the rules by country, it is not easy to see which countries have yet fully implemented the directive and which countries have not yet fully implemented it. Why does the Minister choose to implement it right now and not wait for a more coherent review to be proposed? A more coherent revision of the system instead of now implementing a loose law would, according to the VVD Group, be beneficial not only in terms of comprehensibility but also in terms of implementation. The VVD Group therefore calls for a reflection of the Minister. In the Tielen motion, the government is asked to apply an accessibility test to the current leave arrangements to ensure that citizens and small employers understand the possibilities of simplification. The Minister informed us that this test will take place shortly after the summer; a colleague also mentioned this in this House. The findings could then be taken into account in the information on various schemes. The VVD Group asks the Minister whether this accessibility test has already taken place. This would help our group to get a closer look at the legislative proposal before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u26	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse. Finally, I will give the floor to Mr Janssen, who will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u27	Thank you, Mr President. To be honest, the SP Group is in favour of paid parental leave. The SP Group is also in favour of equal opportunities in the labour market. The SP Group is also in favour of equal pay in the labour market. The SP fraction is also for a minimum wage of at least €14. The starting point is that this should apply equally to all. And that is precisely the problem that my group has with the legislative proposal before us today. The proposal does not offer equal opportunities for all to take advantage of paid parental leave due to the financial consequences. Not everyone will be able to afford this parental leave. In doing so, people are asked to choose: whether to take parental leave or to ensure that there is enough income to cover increased costs of living with birth. An improper, undesirable and unacceptable choice as far as the SP Group is concerned. In the explanatory memorandum, the Government states: "The Government recognises that the withdrawal of leave has financial consequences that may affect the individual choice of whether to take (full) leave or not. It is possible, under circumstances, that a worker may fall below the social minimum due to the reduction in pay when taking up parental leave. Partly because it concerns family income, i.e. the combined income of both partners, it will be a limited group of workers who may be below the social minimum if the leave is taken up in full." My question to the Minister is how big this group is. In his opinion, then, is it true that this group has been unlucky? Does the Minister accept for that group that exclusion from this bill? How big is this group that floats around the minimum of existence? It is not just about the group at the absolute social minimum. The substantive starting point is, as others have argued and as the SER stated in 2018, that the first year after birth is a crucial phase from the labour market perspective of the parents and from the perspective of the young child's development and well-being. In the first year after birth, parents make important choices for work and care patterns that determine the later career, according to the ESC. But then we must ensure that this can apply equally to everyone. Then we must avoid putting women and men at the bottom of the labour market at a disadvantage for the rest of their lives and failing children born in that situation in their development and well-being. Does the Minister share this view? Two weeks ago, we discussed a proposal for quotas in the supervisory boards of listed companies. In that debate, I expressed my sadness and disappointment at the lack of proposals to tackle inequality at the bottom of the labour market in many ways. This bill again does not address that inequality at the bottom. In fact, this bill creates a new inequality for the bottom of the labour market. I wonder if there is any awareness of the reality of how broad that bottom end of the labour market really is. By way of illustration, I read an article this weekend about the commitment of the Hague VVD to the municipal elections next year: "it should be over with that focus on social housing, because we need to build for agents, teachers and nurses in the middle segment," says The Hague VVD. Apparently, a novice agent, teacher or nurse with an income of, say, €2,500 gross, should rent a property for €1,000 bare rent from 40 to 60 m2. And this is just one of many examples, but it is illustrative of a broad living thought, apparently, that the bottom of society consists only of people with benefits. In 2019, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also demonstrated with the report Poverty in map that working poor were almost one third of adults in poverty. I refer to this precisely because, in my view, the government shows a similar lack of understanding of reality in the case of questions relating to this legislative proposal on the financial feasibility of parental leave. Self-responsibility is the solution of the government, but it must be possible. Parental leave is not a luxury, but, as I mentioned earlier, the ESC is a determining necessity for the future development of parents and children. And this bill, in this form, does not, in my opinion, satisfy this 50%. So this raises the question that Mrs Oomen also asked: whether the legal minimum of this law at European level guarantees implementation at all. Mr. Chairman. Following the contribution of the D66 Group to the legislative consultation in the House of Representatives on percentage and coverage, the Minister said this. Quote: "Of course, it is complicated that the implementation of the bill only starts on 2 August 2022, so far after my period as Minister. We have therefore made the agreement that this coverage is a placeholder. A placeholder means that all parties are free to propose a different coverage during the formation." And of course that also applies to the KB-weg for a higher percentage. Now I notice two things from the Minister's answer. Firstly, he assumes that there will be a new cabinet well before 2 August 2022. Yes, 2022! Anyway, he's gonna assume that's gonna work, so that shows some confidence. Secondly, a remark that is closer to reality: that the legislative proposal now before us leaves room for adaptation in any formation discussion, both in terms of the level of benefit and coverage for the entry into force of the law next year. I am therefore curious to hear the Minister's reaction to all the colleagues who have put forward here that 70% of them really live in this Chamber. Then there's the performance. The implementation of this law lies with the UWV. Well, yesterday the SP came up with her black book about people who got into trouble because of the UWV's actions. And yesterday we saw the chairman of the board of directors of the UWV in the television programme Radar again asking for attention to the quality of the legislation and for more attention to be paid to its feasibility. And in July of this year public service providers, including the UWV, came up with a pamphlet. They indicated that legislation should be simpler and easier to understand, and that professionals should be given the space to deviate from those rules. The UWV has also expressed its concern about this bill. My question to the Minister is therefore as follows: does the law, in this form, in his opinion what implementing authority UWV is asking for, or do we put the UWV back with this law with another implementation problem, whereby people are going to be hacked again between shore and ship? I'd like a response from the Minister. The government's explanation of the coverage for this bill is a not very good example of political trade. The ESC came up with a simple recommendation, and I heard Mr Esther say that: pay parental leave from the general budget. The government does not choose to do so; by means of a complicated budgetary technique, the government comes with a politically determined coverage. What always bothers me is that the money spent is not ours, but each minister's. And I can't imagine the Minister going home at night when this money is spent saying: we have to be a little careful with the messages, because I spent some extra money today. It's not like that. It's all our money. And we have to deal with that carefully, but it's all our money. But the deal as it is now, I feel, underlines once again the difference in importance that various political parties attach to the purpose of this bill. Mr President, concluding. As far as my group is concerned, the bill is now an ugly political compromise. For parents at the bottom of the labour market, career opportunities are made difficult, and children of these parents are denied opportunities for development. The indispensables in this country, the cleaners, the garbagemen, the teachers, the care workers, often at the bottom of the labour market, are not only indispensable for our society. They are also indispensable at home after the birth of their child. And we can't let them remember that. That is why this bill will have to be amended in the interests of those parents and those children as far as my group is concerned before it enters into force. Therefore, I cannot yet give an opinion on the legislative proposal as it stands, but I am, of course, looking forward to the Minister's reply. I assume he has the words of his political leader of D66 in mind: we are doing well or we are not doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a break until 3:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u29	The next item is the continuation of the examination of bill 35613, Amendment of the Labour and Care Act, simply the Law paid parental leave. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad to be able to discuss with you today about the bill paid parental leave. I have been looking forward to it for some time, because we have been kept to the implementation date of 2 August 2022. In terms of implementation, too, it is only ten months away. So it's a good thing it's being treated today. Thank you to Mrs Stienen for the kind words in the first term. It has indeed not been three years since the partner had to work on a pink cloud after two days. With the Cradle, the Act introducing additional birth leave, we have of course taken a big step towards the six-week leave for the partner. Then today we will add the payment of parental leave. These are two important steps when it comes to the division of work and care, but also when it comes to the emancipation of men and women in the Netherlands. I'm proud of it. The cradle was my first law and maybe this is my last law in your chamber, Mr. Chairman. With these two laws, we make it possible for working parents to spend longer with their newborn child and thus to establish a stronger relationship with the child. In addition, they offer additional opportunities to reconcile work and family life and to offer the partner the opportunity to take on a role in care and education. We know from research that this is important; a number of speakers have already indicated this in the first period. It is, of course, important that this legislative proposal implements the implementation of the European Work/Private Balance Directive. The aim of the Directive is to achieve a balance between work and private life of parents and carers and to promote equality between men and women. The biggest change that the implementation of this bill, of the directive in the Netherlands, is the introduction of paid parental leave. At present, the Netherlands does not yet have a legal obligation to pay, although in some cases agreements have been reached on payment at collective or company level. I share the view of the European Parliament and the European Council that it is very important to give parents more space to take parental leave. Partial payment of the wage fits better with the time we live in. On the basis of the written questions which we have also received from your group, this view is also widely shared within this Chamber. I've got a couple of blocks for the answer. I would like to start with Europe, but in view of the fact that Mr Ester is not here right now, I will wait a little longer. Let me start with the questions that have been asked about the amount and duration of the benefit. I think this is also the most important point from the first term of your Chamber. At the moment we already have 26 weeks of parental leave per parent in the first eight years of the child's life in the Netherlands. With this proposal, both parents are partially paid for nine of these weeks in the child's first year of life. For a family with two parents this means that 18 weeks of paid parental leave can be taken together in the first year after birth. Together with the mother's 10 to 12 weeks maternity leave and the partner's six weeks birth leave due to the Cradle, this amounts to more than half a half-year paid leave for the parents to take care of the child. Mr Van Gurp, Mrs Stienen, Mrs Sent, Mrs Prast, Mrs Oomen and Mr Janssen have asked questions about the level of payment in relation to parental leave and whether it is financially attractive for low income groups and sole earners, for example. The Directive requires an appropriate level of payment that facilitates the taking of leave by both parents, including for the most earning ones. That is the text of the directive. The cabinet believes that the chosen level of payment certainly encourages the inclusion of parental leave, because compared to the current situation, i.e. no payment, from zero to 50% is a significant, significant step forward. And I'm always off the glass half full and never off the glass half empty. The cabinet also considers it reasonable that the employees themselves should contribute, partly in order to demonstrate that they are well motivated to participate in the daily care of their children and to share this care with their partner honestly. To Mr Van Gurp: that was also the argument not to choose 100%. I don't know if anyone is in the SET, but the difference in costs from 50% to 70% or from 70% to 100% is mainly in behavioural effects and under the assumption of how many people use them. Because from 50% to 70%, you have to add 190 million, but if you go from 70% to 100%, it's not linear, because then you get much bigger behavioural effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u31	The Minister compares two directives. In the one directive, parental leave was unpaid. The other directive has its own content. That is to ensure that it is also feasible at the lowest level. The minister's comparing these two, and I don't think that's possible. That is why I would really like to take a look at the implementation of this directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u32	I was still working on my introduction. I still have a lot of questions about the height and the duration. Maybe I'll come up with an automatic in a minute. But I am an optimistic man and I always think: all steps forward are steps forward. That's what I wanted to highlight in my introduction. The own contribution has now been set at 50% of the wage. Within the financial possibilities available, the Cabinet considers that this percentage has struck a good balance between, on the one hand, the level of benefit, which encourages parents to take parental leave, and, on the other hand, the employee's own responsibility for combining obligations arising from his work and obligations at home. It is up to parents to prepare for their child's arrival and for all the consequences, including loss of income when taking parental leave. For example, by spreading the take-up of leave, the loss of income is better to cope with. This has also been discussed extensively in the House of Representatives. Mrs Prast rightly said that it should be included within the first year of the child's birth, because that is why the most added value lies in the combination of the care of the child and the setting up of the tasks of work and the tasks of home. We know that this first year also has a huge impact on the division of labour towards the future. Often in that first year the proportions are set. That is why the Cradle and this paid parental leave are mutually reinforcing. Mr. Chairman. Critical notes have been placed by your members at the level of this percentage. I understand that very well. For example, there was also the question of whether it would be appropriate for workers in the lower income class to take leave at such a benefit rate. I would like to respond to that in a few ways. Firstly, the CBS monitor shows that there is only a small percentage of parents who need parental leave but do not use it. It accounted for around 10% of men and 8% of women in 2019. As a reason, around 30% of these non-users indicated that the remuneration was insufficient. This amounts to about 3% of male and 2% of female rightholders. It is therefore a question of parents with children up to 8 years old, because the unpaid part is up to 8 years old and is not limited to the first year. The risk is, of course, to a large extent among the lower income groups. In this sense, I also understand the critical comments on the percentage that have also been made in your Chamber. Mrs Oomen also mentioned that it does not occur so often. It is, however, relevant that, after the legislative consultation on this bill in the House of Representatives, I have included a provision in the bill by means of a letter of amendment which makes it possible, by royal decree, to raise the benefit rate to 70% before 2 August 2022, i.e. before the effective entry into force of this directive. This can indeed be done, for example, if there is agreement within the framework of the formation, because the budget is also made available for this purpose. If that agreement is reached in the short term, it is possible to increase it as soon as it enters into force on 2 August 2022. Otherwise, it will be later, for example after the evaluation, if there is reason to do so. I think it is important that I say this before Mr Van Gurp commits his interruption to creating a structure. I think that's very important. That's the big step forward. We are now setting up a structure at the UWV that will fill in the paid parental leave as of 2 August 2022. If, at a later stage, a change in the rate of benefit is considered desirable and the financial resources are also available, this is technically quite easy to achieve. That's what we agreed with the UWV. That is why the KB, the letter of amendment in the Lower House, has also been added to the bill. In short, at the end of my introduction, we are now taking a truly fundamental step with the legal right to paid parental leave. Several Members have said that the Netherlands is lagging behind. That's right. In international comparisons you can see that the Netherlands is absolutely not a frontrunner at this point. In fact, all neighbouring countries often have more extensive schemes, including paid schemes. However, we are taking a significant step forward and it is up to the next cabinet, if it wishes, to adjust the percentages within the structure and implementation structure that we have now put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u33	I have a question about the introduction, because there is a crucial point in it. The minister says: well, I'm more of the glass is half full; 50% is half full and not half empty. I'm also an optimistic person. He knows that. But if you don't pay someone first and then half the minimum wage, you can say it's a step forward, but you can also say: I'm sorry, but it's really not enough to meet the standards. Of course, that's the conversation we're having. Is this 50% sufficient to give serious substance to the objectives set out in the law and in the European directive? Or does this lead to an impact on the labour market? That's the concern of the Chamber. That's my introduction. I'm not supposed to do that in the event of an interruption, but I've done it now. My question to the Minister is as follows. He says: it offers the opportunity, for example in the cabinet formation or otherwise, to raise this. But we are completing the parliamentary debate on the bill today. My question is whether a ruling by this Chamber, which will call for the possibility provided for in the law, can be a push in the right direction. To say here as a full Chamber that we are waiting for the cabinet formation, I would have liked to have been there, but it was not allowed to be, I think, for a part of Parliament, to be a bit economical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u34	I understand this question from Mr Van Gurp. Of course, this has also been very explicitly discussed in the House of Representatives. The honest answer is, of course, that there is no consensus, let me put it this way: what was the desired percentage and whether there was sufficient budget available for that. Politically speaking, there was no consensus on this, even in the Lower House. What has been said in the House of Representatives, and I understand that, also from the questions that have been asked in this Chamber today, is: Minister, make it possible for such an interim step, such an increase, to be implemented. Together with the UWV we discussed. We have sent a letter of amendment, which makes it technically possible, as of 2 August 2022, to allow that step to 70%. I have also been kept to all kinds of financial frameworks and budgetary arrangements. This has, of course, also been part of negotiations, including within the previous coalition. I think it is important to take this step. Firstly, because of the European directive, which we must, of course, implement. That is, of course, a more legal argument. Secondly, we are now at 0%. With this step, we are laying down the implementation structure, as well as a substantial reduction in costs. Would I like more personally? Oh, yeah. The other side of the coin is, of course, that you have to indicate what it has to be paid for. That has, of course, always been complicated in these discussions. It is not for nothing that the Netherlands lags behind several of these schemes. Let's put it this way. So I have tried to find a compromise here and to take an intermediate step by saying that we are doing this implementation of the directive in this way; the structure is now there. The hook is definitely there. But it is really up to political parties to make a choice whether we make that money available, that 190 million, and where it comes from. That is not just SZW's budget, I say straight away to Mr Janssen. It can also be done by general means. In the Lower House there was insufficient support to take that step already. There was the question: are you not going to get in the way, Minister, if we do want to take that step? Well, we made that possible with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u35	It's a lot the Minister says. I do not want to argue that it is a step in the right direction, but it is really not enough. I find it rather odd that, at the moment when parliamentary debate is still going on, eight of the nine political groups here, if I have listened carefully, have said that you should actually take that step, the Minister can only say: leave it to the forming parties. Coverage is another point. You can say anything about that. You can say "I'm going through 360 million's chosen system a little bit," but you can also say "there was already a framework and we're doing it from the general resources," which is always the simplest. The law allows you or your successor to act. The First Chamber says in a broad sense in the first term: we would very much appreciate it if you were to act in this way. I would prefer you to commit yourself to this rather than to table a motion for a resolution. And if we table a motion, I'd be pleased if you'd give her judgment Chamber to send a signal to these parties. That's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u36	That also brings me into a gap. I'm going to make an unveiling, not only about this bill, but also about an extra budget for UWV and SVB to improve its implementation. I have, of course, had numerous negotiations with the former coalition to make it financially possible, because it is not free either. The coverage of the bill is on the one hand in the Aof bonus for employers. I think that is justified by the idea that part of the employers are already offering paid parental leave and that they will no longer have to do so in the future. The other part of the coverage is the reduction of the IACK, the income-dependent combination discount, a tax measure. Moreover, the total package agreed at that time also includes the indexation of family allowances. All three proposals for cover have been very critical, at least in the House of Representatives. We have been asked why we are not increasing the burden on employers and why we are lowering the IACK. I think it is too easy to say 'just pay it from the general budget'...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think it is very legitimate that there should be a political debate on raising. I have heard from parties in the Lower House, but also here today, that that wish exists. I also agreed to cover it. The only thing that matters to me now is that I properly implement the directive, set the implementation structure, increase the rate from 0% to 50% and create the space to take that additional step. From what I have said, you can already see how I feel about it personally. It has to be regulated politically. Now, if you ask me to give your motion a ruling Chamber, I'm actually gonna waive the deal, just to put it bluntly, which I've made earlier. Which brings me a little bit into a split. But I am very open and transparent about the background to this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u37	Mr Van Gurp, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u38	Yes, finally, about the coverage and the Court of Justice judgment. I think it's a bit of a strange political culture that if you left the judgment to the Chamber, you'd give up on your policy. You can also say that the policy offers the opportunity to take this step. I would like to hear what the Court thinks about this, precisely in view of the provision provided for in Article 6:10a. I always think that if you provide cover, it's going to be some kind of amendment, and that's not what our Chamber is about. We have only seen in the Lower House what it does when a Chamber does cover and the cabinet says: we have thought about it and want to cover it differently. So, I'd very much like to leave that cover to your creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u40	I love my own creativity, but I'm afraid I also need to find a majority for it in both chambers. That is often the hard part in this matter. But I have heard you very well, Mr Van Gurp, and I have also read the electoral programmes of various political parties in which there is indeed something to be said about this. This could also be an indication of the political support for this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u41	In order to save time in the rest of the debate, I would like to be more specific. The Minister said: I can use that possibility of the KB, for example in the context of the cabinet formation. Can the Minister mention other examples in which he can use the KB, other than just through the cabinet formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u42	For example, if there is agreement next year on the Spring Note in the House of Representatives, there could be a political majority to increase the percentage and if there is agreement on the financial coverage for it. Then it could be. In any case, it must be done before 2 August 2022, as the scheme will enter into force. If that doesn't happen, it stays at 50%. The only option I have offered with the KB or with the letter of amendment is from 50% to 70%. Should there be any other percentage desirable, for example, Mrs Stienen said that, for example, it would require a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u43	Is that the only other example? The Minister says: either at the formation or at the spring note. Or are there any things closer that could lead to an increase of 70%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u44	Technically, it could be with the Navy Note now. I'm just the tech guy today. But that's actually the same thing. In the debate in the House of Representatives I hear that a great deal of budgetary decision-making is being put on the table precisely because the financial frameworks are being created there for the coming years. But technically, it could. You must assume from me, including Mr Van Gurp, that I have spent a year trying to do this. It was not easy to reach agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u45	No, Mr. Van Gurp, not through the hall, because people at home can't follow that. Mr Janssen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u46	Let me say, in line with Mr Van Gurp, that it does raise questions if we have to decide on a deal that will take a year here in the afternoon. And the legal sustainability of the 50% in the context of the implementation of the directive is still to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u47	I have a question about the 50%. We have already understood that this is becoming very complicated for people on low incomes. Take someone with a modal income, €35,000 a year, who has to live half a year. That's almost impossible. When I hear it like that, the coverage is arranged through the IACK and the freezing of child benefit. In other words, something is taken from those parents first and then they get 50% back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u48	The funny answer is: we just didn't find a money tree to pay for all this. It will have to come from taxes and premiums somewhere, from length or width. I sometimes say to my colleagues: I called my colleague in Belgium and he refused to pay again. You're right. That's exactly the struggle I've had over the past two years finding cover for this bill. You also understand that the IACK is complex for parties such as VVD and D66 and that the child benefit and the child-related budget are particularly complicated for the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP. That's exactly the tricky part. Mr Janssen rightly said that you can also choose to pay it from the general budget, but that is exactly the same. To pay it out, it has to be picked up somewhere with taxes and premiums. So that's why I tried to find a compromise. On the one hand, you place some of the costs on employers, because they also have the advantage of doing so, both directly because they no longer have the cost of paid parental leave, and indirectly because you have a higher employment rate, a higher labour supply. And you put a part of it down with the users within the domain "work and care," for example by the IACK. That may not be nice, but it is an honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u49	I am very pleased with that honest answer. It's true it's not pretty. A technical clarification for me on that 70%. You mentioned the date of August 2nd. Can it only go on August 2nd and not after? Or it can start at any time until August 2nd or after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u50	Until August 2, I can use a letter of amendment, the hook by royal decree, to raise it to 70%. If it's after that or another percentage, there's gonna be a law change. That's not the most complicated bill. What was important to me was that the scalability could also be taken into account in the implementation. We've got everything set up at 50%. In the meantime, should 70% be chosen, for example by forming parties or otherwise, it is still possible to do so as of 2 August 2022. We asked the UWV about this. Mrs Oomen just asked in the event of interruption, but also in her first term, whether there is a risk of infringement proceedings. The Directive does not include a rate of benefit. I'm going to answer you. The Directive only provides in Article 8.3 that the level of payment should be set in such a way as to facilitate the taking of leave for both partners. That is what we are doing with the bill, because it is still unpaid and it is going to be 50%. We must report the implementation of the directive to the European Commission. It is then up to the European Commission to see if they believe that we have correctly implemented the directives. They can ask questions about that. If they feel that we have not responded adequately to this, they can eventually start infringement proceedings against the Netherlands. That's the technical answer. In view of the vague wording of the directive, we do not consider it a very good opportunity. Of course, it also has to do with the fact that many Member States said: leave it to us; do not prescribe it too detailed. In the Scandinavian countries, for example, many schemes are implemented and implemented by social partners, not by the state. They said: keep a little room for Member States to fill in this in their own way. It is about an adequate level of payment. In the end, it is up to the European Commission to assess this. Moreover, the Council of State did not comment on this in the legislative proposal. That is an important test for us in the preparatory phase. Mr Van Gurp and Mrs Sent asked: will the target be achieved if the benefit rate is 50%? That's the proof of the pudding. I'll mention a few things as an indication. At present, parental leave is not paid in most sectors. Only about 25% of employees receive a partial payment. That is what the collective agreements say, for example. That percentage is roughly between 50% and 70%. So many collective agreements have 50% and the outliers have 70%. This means that 75% of workers will receive benefits from August for those nine weeks paid parental leave which they do not yet have through collective agreements or company schemes. For this group, the legislative proposal certainly contributes to the objectives to be achieved, namely better distribution of labour and care and the promotion of women's participation in the labour market. We have also explained this in the written set. Mrs Prast asked if we had thought about an interest-free loan as a supplement to that. No, I honestly didn't consider that before. I do not think that the granting of a public loan is desirable in this context either. So how do you deal with it when parents' situations change, for example when parents have financial problems and there are more creditors? If the loan is found to be too high, this could lead to significant recovery problems. We are, of course, seeing this in practice recently. We have to learn those lessons. Apart from that, it is very practical for the execution. I thought it was Mr Janssen who asked if the UWV could do this. I will return to the implementation questions in a moment. But such an interest-free loan is, of course, very difficult for the execution. You must then allow the UWV to grant private loans, while the SVB involves the loan on the child benefit, for 18 years. That seems to me practically very difficult to shape, also in the cooperation between UWV and SVB. Those are the reasons why I didn't consider that. Mrs Prast also asked: why do you reject the Labour Party's suggestion and the preliminary report on default, the standard choice? Does this mean I'm rejecting behavioral economic thinking? No, absolutely not. Mrs. Prast knows me, too. I am very much in favour of that. I went into the background of the 50% partial payment. Because of the income gap, it is up to parents themselves to make an informed choice. They need to think about what choice they make with regard to family income. The standard choice is not obvious, because many choices have to be made. Mrs Sent and Mrs Oomen asked a question about the lowest incomes. They asked if the fallback in income is the greatest there. The allowance on admission of paid parental leave or the cradle, i.e. birth leave, is added to the gross income. The difference in the marginal tax burden between income groups results in different benefits in net income. Due to the low marginal pressure in low-income people, the relative decline in net income is greater than in people with a moderate income. Here's what's equally important. The example from NRC was mentioned. I thought Mrs Oomen made comments on this, or Mrs Sent. The differences are caused not so much by the level of benefit of the Cradle as by this scheme. They are caused by the tax system, because it concerns the income-dependent labour rebate and the income-dependent tax rebate. From the employment discount, it is logical that you are more supported, as you earn more, which gives you an incentive to go to work. This also means that you don't get a larger part of your employment discount if you get below the minimum wage. That's what's causing these income effects. I don't think they're desirable myself. This adjustment requires a more fundamental change in the whole system of taxation and surcharges. For example, you have to get rid of the income-dependent labour discount, otherwise you will retain that marginal pressure in that part of the income building, or you will have to shape it differently. This has not so much to do with these arrangements as with the broader structure of taxation. Moreover, we are still facing a challenge in this respect, I say as a non-responsible ruler. Mr Janssen asked which part of the right holders could be placed under the social minimum when parental leave is included. The social minimum is based on the household. For a household with two adults and at least one child, this is equal to the minimum wage. That's the definition of it. If parental leave is taken on a continuous basis, household income could reach around 12% of households below the social minimum per month. We have, of course, offered the opportunity to spread it over the year, so that you can reduce those effects. But Mr Janssen was right to say that these groups not only consist of people with wml, but also of people up there, because it is, of course, a percentage of income, which could result in this group falling under.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u51	So that means that as a government, you're gonna go through the finances for this group of people, and you're gonna arrange how they're gonna take that leave spread over a year. It is therefore not possible to take leave on the basis of the factual situation. You say you have a year to do it, so you just have to watch it come true. I'll paraphrase it for a moment, but it means that these people don't have the free choice to do it as the family situation demands at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u52	If you earn 120% wml as a household income, the consequence is indeed that you run the risk of going below the minimum with 50% of the benefit. That's right. The possibility we have offered in the legislative proposal to reduce that effect is to take leave over the year. Does that solve the problem? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I agree with Mr Janssen. At the same time, of course, it is a generic scheme which applies to all workers. By the way, the scheme at the top is also capped at the maximum sv-day wage, which also means that people with higher incomes have a sharper income disadvantage. Also because of the feasibility of the scheme, the percentage has been chosen in this way. By the way, if you were to increase the percentage from 50% to 70%, the share would get smaller, from 12% to 7% I say out of my head, but it's not completely gone. You'll always have people who earn just above minimum wage and go down with the income-dependent benefit. I am not saying anything about bonuses and other allowances that are there, of course, but I would like to distance myself from that, because that fits in with the broader income policy of taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u53	Anyone who is excluded from this scheme for financial reasons is too much for us. That would be undesirable. Hence the amendment in the House of Representatives, which did not make it. But I can now hear the Minister admit that there will be a group that will not have a free choice under this scheme to classify parental leave in such a way that it is good for parents and children, but that should distribute that leave for financial reasons over the year, in order to adapt a sleeve there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u54	I think that is a little too black and white. I do think that there are people who need such a spread in order to cope with an income decline. I agree with Mr Janssen. This also applies, of course, to people with a higher income, who, for example, receive maximum sv-day pay. That is why I said in my introduction that it is also the responsibility of the people themselves. Nor was it chosen for the 100% Mr Van Gurp talked about. But a lower percentage of course also brings with it its own responsibility for the way in which you set it up. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u55	Mr Janssen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u56	I hear the minister say "point." That means, I say briefly and forcefully, the confirmation of what we have already established with each other. There is a group at the top, as the minister says, who suffers from it. Yes, but they can prepare and absorb that a little better themselves, has been my plea. There's no choice at the bottom. The government is now going to decide whether a group can fill that out, not according to necessity but to financial necessity. In my view, this does not improve the legal sustainability of this law in terms of its implementation. Anyway, that's gonna be something else. I note that we have a group that will not be able to make effective use of this scheme, or will be able to use it in an appropriate form, driven by the financial situation and not by the substantive situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u57	I recognize that there is a group which can indeed come under the social minimum when taking this leave. That's true, because the benefit rate is a percentage of your income. That's right. We know how to mitigate this as much as possible by having the opportunity to spread over a year, to absorb the income effects. But you're right, it'll never be enough for everyone. I think that's the honest answer. This also applies to the 70%, as I have just said. That may be for a smaller group, but it is also expected to be for that 70%. Mr Ester had a question about Europe, subsidiarity and proportionality. But I'll wait, because Mrs. Stienen wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u58	The word "block" has not yet fallen, but I have the feeling that the Minister now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u59	Yeah, I'm at a new block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u60	I hear a lot of percentages. In fact, in this whole conversation I miss what it's going to mean for the Dutch economy when women start working more. For example, a McKinsey report might also be an interesting source of inspiration for the Minister of Finance. It says that, in the most favourable case, this would mean 221 billion for GNP. That may be very optimistic, but in this analysis I miss the positive effects, if this law is passed, of more women going to work for our national treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u61	I'm about to come up with that in another block. This is more about the social impact and the impact of legislation on the division of labour between men and women. By the way, McKinsey's amount is of course based on the idea that all women in the Netherlands would work much less part-time and would opt for more working hours. I believe that the legislative proposal contributes to this, but that this is not enough to allow that step to be taken at once. There must also be a lot of other factors, including cultural factors. We know from research, for example, that there are also women in the Netherlands who decide to work part-time even before there are children. This also has to do with cultural factors, or perhaps with other preferences. I'm an economist enough to be open to that, too. But it's not just likely that this kind of leave arrangement could solve this whole gap. That it contributes, both the Cradle and this law, I am sure. Mr Ester asked about the European debate. I am going to give him a comprehensive answer, because I think this is an important issue, even towards the future. Indeed, the social pillar is becoming increasingly important in Europe, even since Oslo, when an agreement was signed. There are also discussions coming to us about the European minimum wage. They are now being used in Europe. First of all, I should like to say that I am pleased that Mr Ester and his group are positive about the introduction of paid parental leave. I'm gonna go back in time and explain how this turned out. In 2015, the partners of the mothers only had two days paid leave at the birth of their child. The Netherlands just came out of an economic crisis. We felt that no financial resources could be made available for additional paid leave. Things were getting better soon. My predecessor, Mr Asscher, was able to provide funds for extending maternity leave to one week. That was actually the first step in this respect. This bill could no longer be dealt with before the 2017 elections. Then we took that bill back and replaced it with the Cradle. We have taken a big step in this direction. At that time, the initiative was also on the table from Europe. At that time, particularly in the Lower House, but also in this Chamber, considerable questions were asked about European involvement in this area, from the point of view of proportionality, subsidiarity and the question of whether Europe has a role and a role to play in this. As a new minister, I was confronted with a yellow card drawn by the House of Representatives when I went to Brussels for my very first meeting, to the European Council. The division of powers is clear. The division of competences between the Union and the Member States in the social policy area is laid down in the conventions we have agreed together. The EU has the power to take measures in this area with decisions based on qualified majority voting. There is therefore room in Brussels for such an initiative and for decisions to be taken by qualified majority. There is a shared competence in the social field. For example, with regard to the Work-Private Balance Directive, the EU has the power to support and supplement Member States' activities by means of directives. Mrs Oomen, too, said in her first term that this has been implemented not only through directives, but also through European case law, and that this has also played an important role in this debate. The Netherlands, together with Denmark, was critical and voted against that directive, but a qualified European majority supported the outcome of the negotiations. That was my very first European Council. Denmark also voted against, but not on the basis of a substantive statement of reasons, because they already had a system of paid parental leave. They did so from exactly the same discussion that also took place in the Netherlands: is it not really something that the Member States themselves should do? So that's what we've been discussing. But in the social field, because of this partial competence, the European Commission has the opportunity to make proposals to bring these objectives closer. The same applies, for example, to the proposal now before us on the European legal minimum wage, in which we have many criticisms. Due to a level playing field between Member States, but also to all kinds of negative effects of, for example, labour migration or brain drains from countries, there are good reasons why you should have a discussion on this at European level. It is clear that it is about border traffic, about how you deal with people who, for example, live in Germany and work in the Netherlands; Regulation 883 is called that in the European debate. So the fact that there are real powers at European level in the social field is clear, clear and clear. The main focus of the discussion in the Netherlands was on how detailed Europe had to prescribe this and whether there was still subsidiarity. What I found complicated myself is that if the House of Representatives sends you to Brussels with a yellow card, you're actually out of line. The risk is that you will not be heard by the other Member States. We had good points of substance, namely: take account of the specific circumstances, take account of other forms of leave. But because of that yellow card we were isolated and we were no longer listened to. I have also said in the House of Representatives that as a Dutch Parliament you are not constantly drawing yellow cards, because that hinders your position in negotiating directives with other Member States in order to amend a proposal for the better. I hope and think that my appeal has had some effect in the meantime, because since then no yellow cards have been submitted. I sent a letter to the House of Representatives about three or four weeks ago, with a copy to your Chamber, about what has happened in recent years to the social issues in Europe, which has been our commitment and where we have been able to make proposals better, also in the Dutch interest. That is therefore a broader answer to your question. And finally, it comes back to the question that was asked at the time in the Lower House: why hasn't the Netherlands introduced legal and paid parental leave before and why should we leave it to Europe? Frankly, I have come to the conclusion slowly that it also occasionally helps to have external pressure to take steps in this area. Because yes, thanks to these steps the leave arrangements have been extended, I think for the better, and I do not think that would have been entirely possible without that external pressure; I say that honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u62	Thank you for the enlightening historical reconstruction that you share with us, but I am also concerned about the more intellectual question: where is the boundary between national sovereignty and the prescription from Brussels in the social domain? My party is also trying to construct a new story for this, which is why your input is highly appreciated. However, I would ask you to take a break from everyday practice and see where intellectually these limits lie. And "intellectually" I mean in a political sense. That would be very helpful, because that question will come back. You mentioned the minimum wage. There has been a whole EU conference in Porto. I don't think we were there, eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u63	I was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u64	Oh, yes, of course you were there. At that time it was mainly about social policy. So those are questions that come to us. This applies to every party here in the Lower House. It would therefore be a good idea if you would share some chalk marks with us on this issue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u65	In fact, I was announced in Porto as the Dutch Prime Minister. I thought that was a good time, actually. Agnes Jongerius was also in the room at the time and he said: things are fast in the Netherlands with the formation! Unfortunately, I had to disappoint her. I understand Mr Ester's question very well. Quite apart from all kinds of legal answers, because there is legitimacy and these frameworks, I also think that it is extremely important that you, as the Netherlands, play an international role in this type of dossier and have a substantive view on it, because freedom of movement also involves a lot of social issues. This is obvious, for example, in the case of labour migration. Of course, we have 500,000 people from Eastern Europe working daily in the Netherlands, in agriculture and horticulture, in the transport sector and in the distribution centres. On the one hand, a large part of the economic sectors are involved and we are extremely happy that people want to do this work, but on the other hand, there are all kinds of social and social problems. Think of the risk of poor housing, as described in Mr Roemer's report, or of exploitation. Last week, Mr Irrgang presented to me a report from the General Court on low wages and poor working conditions. And then it will help if you can make agreements at European level, not only on rules but also on enforcement, for example. That is why, in the Dutch Parliament, I very much advocated the adoption of the European Labour Authority, the European regulator for cross-border traffic. The same applies to the debate on the export of WW benefits. Perhaps you remember that a year or two and a half ago there was a discussion at the UWV about WW benefits going to Poland. For this, too, it is important to work with the Polish government and to have rules for how you deal with it. The same applies to what is actually Europe's central theme: upward social convergence. That is the last example, Mr President. We say that if all the countries in Europe go up, it will be beneficial for all of us and certainly also for the Netherlands. This also means that you need to be able to discuss the level of the social minimum and minimum wage in Member States, which can also lead to a higher level of prosperity in those countries that still have a foot to foot. For this, it can help to have European laws and regulations. That is exactly why I also said to the Social Affairs Committee in the Lower House: hold your horses; beware that you do not say directly that this is not a European issue. It is often about cross-border effects, which are also relevant to the Netherlands, and where, I believe, if the Netherlands has a constructive role to play in order to be able to have that discussion. We shouldn't just stand on the brakes. I hope I have been able to give Mr Ester a few examples. This matters to me, because only yellow cards really don't bring you any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u66	Thank you, I find that very helpful. Thank you for sharing this. I have one more question in the context of the evaluation. I'm sure that's another block in your terminology. I think it is important that we, as European Member States, learn from each other when it comes to these kinds of issues. I would ask you to go into this when we come to the evaluation, to see how this works in other countries, for example when it comes to the percentage of continued payments. There is a remarkable consensus in this Chamber today on its social side-effects. I am also very curious to know, and I would like to give you this in the context of the evaluation of how other countries deal with this, because of course we are not the only ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u67	That's a good question. I shall come back to that in a moment, indeed, but I think that is a fair question from Mr Ester. It is fair to say that many countries already have such an arrangement and that the Netherlands really is an outlier, if you make an international comparison. A fair question to include the international perspective in the evaluation, for learning ability. I'm at the block of execution by the UWV, Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen asked: does the law now meet in terms of feasibility, also by the UWV? Or is the execution going to run smoothly? That was Mr Janssen's literal question. The UWV is closely involved in setting up this scheme. We also took an execution test. In the design we have connected to existing leave arrangements and existing implementation structures. The conclusion of the execution key of the UWV is that it is executable. The UWV rightly keeps telling us: don't make it too complex, don't make too many exceptions, because that in practice leads to complexity for the UWV. In practice, this also leads to examples of recovery or other problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u68	My question is very specific, also in response to the statements of the chairman of the UWV board of directors last night on TV: does this law allow for the professionalism that UWV asks to depart from this law if the individual situation makes it possible for the human dimension?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u69	Uh, yeah... Apart from this law, we are in consultation with the UWV about a few things. First of all, it's about... That is not Mr Janssen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u70	My question is very specific, not about what the Minister is doing with the UWV. A very specific question about this law, which we must say yes to or no to, is all we can do in this Chamber: it allows us to do what the UWV asks, namely give us the room for professionalism to depart from this law if the human measure so requires. Does this law offer that space, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u71	Then I have to come back to two questions. In a generic sense, following the report Unfamiliar injustice, we are in the process of introducing the AWB into laws and regulations with hardness clauses in a general sense. As you know, there is also an investigation under the motion for a resolution concerning the hardness of the participation and UWV arrangements. I shall come back to that in second place. Mrs Stienen asked: can a possible fall in income also have an impact on supplements, such as the rent allowance? It is true that the inclusion of paid parental leave may have an impact on income-dependent allowances, as parental leave is partially paid. As a result, when taking leave, those income-dependent schemes can only be higher and not lower, because the income becomes lower. Unlike the childcare allowance system, the application for parental leave benefits is ex post and is determined on the basis of daily wage and policy administration. We have done this consciously to prevent you from getting all kinds of set-offs afterwards, making it more complex for execution and people are confronted with payback schemes. There was another question from Mrs Prast about the four or six weeks waiting period, but I will come to that in a moment. No correction or set-off shall be made afterwards. The amount of the benefit is calculated on the basis of the daily wage and not of the working time, so that there is no dependence on any errors in the hours registration of the employer. This has been implemented in order to avoid precisely what we have seen in the childcare allowance, which is large amounts of ex post recovery. As with other leave schemes, the worker's application for benefits is made through the employer, who already has experience of this, thus reducing complexity and avoiding errors. And if the legislator makes a mistake with the application, it will often be possible to repair it in consultation with the UWV. Thus, a situation such as that in the case of the premium affair may be less frequent as a result of the design of this scheme. Whether it never happens at all... There are always exceptional cases in practice, unfortunately, also due to wrong applications or incorrect registrations. But this has been taken into account in the scheme. This automatically brings me to Mrs Prast's question: does the UWV have six weeks to pay the benefit? The employer may apply for the benefit afterwards, i.e. after a week's leave has been taken. And that is what has been carefully chosen, because it is only then that it is certain that the leave has been taken, so that the right amount of benefit can be calculated. So it's just from the thought that you don't want to have all kinds of recovery and complexity. For example, we avoid the need for recovery and the lack of clarity about benefits. If, however, leave is reduced and the benefit has been too high, this could lead to substantial amounts and rates of recovery. However, this means that there is a period between the start of leave and the reduction of pay, and the time of payment of the benefit. If the payout goes through the employer, there are six weeks in between. That is why it would be good, and to appreciate, if the employer simply pays half of the wage, which is often done in practice: the employer simply pays on, and then a set-off with the UWV takes place. This is also easier for employers to shape than for individual workers, and we have opted for this structure. If that benefit is paid directly to the employee.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then there is a risk that you have to bridge a period, but considering everything, including those recovery rates and that complexity, this seemed to us to be the best design, also for people themselves. A block on the simplification of the leave system and the accessibility test by Mrs Tielen van de Tweede Kamer. Mr Ester, as well as Mrs De Blécourt, asked about the implementation of the accessibility test. On the one hand, we are dealing with a directive which is fairly detailed, which is exactly what needs to be introduced, I shall say. On the other hand, various possibilities for simplification have been identified in the official note "Policy options for simplification and extension leave." As a result of the Tielen motion in the House of Representatives, preparations are currently being made for the implementation of an accessibility test which sees the comprehensibility of current leave arrangements for citizens and smaller employers. The results are expected in spring 2022. That is a little later than we originally had in mind, but that also has to do with the official capacity in the ministry because of all kinds of other discussions about emergency support because of corona and that kind of points. In addition, the ESC, the Economic and Social Council, intends to give its opinion on simplifying the leave system in 2022, so that can be taken together. And then it is up to a next cabinet, after that accessibility test and the ESC opinion, to make further choices. I warn you, though, that is more difficult than you would think at first sight, because all these leave arrangements, of course, have a particular target group or a particular reason why they have been created for a reason. So just simplify, that's going to cause all kinds of problems with people in border cases and so on. So I fully understand the call for simplification and less complexity. I really understand that, but at the same time you can also see that there are a lot of different target groups that need separate leave arrangements for quite different purposes. Mr Ester, Mrs Stienen and Mrs Sent also asked about communication and the diversity of arrangements. Through a broad information campaign both from SZW and UWV, parents and employers will be informed about the right to paid parental leave and other leave rights. In doing so, this is more in line with Mrs Stienen's question and with good examples of taking leave. I think that also helps in communication, for the sake of comprehensibility. This also includes insights from the accessibility test, which also deals with the comprehensibility of current leave arrangements for citizens and for smaller employers in particular. This following that motion-Tielen in the Lower House. With the grant of SZW and OCW, a number of civil society organisations united in the Alliance Work & Family will also work together with various tools for raising awareness about the use of this leave. So we also support these social initiatives. We also have the WorkCareer, which makes the consequences of taking leave easier for one's own income. That project was funded from OCW, again to provide people with tools to make a conscious choice. It was developed by the Nibud and WOMEN Inc. and thus shows the financial consequences of taking leave, childcare and more or less work. This is also in response to Mrs Sent's question on the calculation tool. Especially for low-income parents, these tools will be actively highlighted, because unfortunately there is also the most complexity, with bonuses, income-dependent schemes and benefits. That makes it more complicated for this group. Then it's extra useful that those tools are there. Mrs De Blécourt asks: why do we always deal with loose laws on leave? Couldn't we have done that in one go? In short, yes and no. In principle, it could have been done at once, because that gives clarity to employees, employers and also for implementation. However, as I said when it came to the level and duration of the benefit, it is not easy to get everyone on the same page, because there are not only social differences but also political differences of opinion. I have just said to Mr Ester that seven years ago it was not even possible to extend the leave from two days to one week. There was no political majority in favour of this. So it is really complicated to find majorities on this subject. That is why I am particularly pleased with both the Cradle and this first step in paid parental leave. I am convinced that it is necessary to proceed gradually. A little Merkelian: Schritt für Schritt. So first the extension of birth leave and now parental leave. As you know, the use in the Netherlands is to implement a European directive at a minimum level. That is always a request from both Chambers of the States-General: no European headlines. That is a frequent question to us as a cabinet. That is why we implement at a minimum level. Finally, the leave system is never finished. There is also, for example, a discussion about the mourning leave of the SGP Group and the GroenLinks Group in the House of Representatives have made a note about the introduction of a mourning leave and the transition leave. We have asked the ESC to respond to this in the context of the recommendations for early 2022. Mrs De Blécourt's last question on this point was about small employers. That always wrings a little bit. Let's just be honest. Legal parental leave already exists, but is still unpaid. In practice, therefore, small employers will be able to take up their rights and make use of them within these eight years. What is of course new is that the employer must apply for and receive the benefit from the UWV, so that the paid side is also arranged. I have to admit that it is not easy for smaller employers when multiple workers take leave at the same time or are ill. The debate on pay for sickness has of course been going on for a number of years, including with the polder. It is also included in the medium-term ESC opinion for the next cabinet period. It contains an opinion on how to deal with this in order to relieve the burden on small employers. To be honest, I simply do not have a ready-made solution for this, also because the directive simply says that the worker is entitled to paid parental leave. So you cannot distinguish between small employers and large employers. That's not gonna last. However, the employer may change the schedule of leave in relation to what the employee would like. This has to do with the important interests, the important business interests, of the employer. I think it is often possible in practice in good consultation. There are incidents where the employer and the employee do not come out, but in most cases they can be agreed upon in good consultation. For example, in the case of such an important business interest, it is a question of going through the work. In a store, someone's got to be behind the counter. This is a major business interest, allowing you to make arrangements with the individual employee about how to fill out the leave. That's in response to your question. Then I come to the block of impact of legislation on the distribution of care tasks. Mrs Stienen, Mrs Sent, Mrs Oomen and Mrs Prast have asked a lot of questions about this. Mrs Stienen asked what this law means for the health effects for children. This is very difficult to make concrete, but based on scientific literature we know that longer leave in the first year after the child's birth contributes to the well-being of the child. Mrs Prast also said it in her first term. Research shows that if, after birth, one of the parents is home for a longer period of time to take care of the child, this contributes positively to the development of the child. That is why I am so proud of both the cradle and paid parental leave. This law enables both parents to bond with the child and create a stable environment in which the child can develop. So both effects will be positive. Of course, that depends on its use. That's obvious. We will also have to map this and evaluate it in order to see what is happening in practice. Mr Ester and Mrs Sent pointed out that men take much less paid parental leave than women and asked if this would reduce the differences if you paid part of the leave. Mrs Sent also asked how this bill ensures a more equal distribution of work and care between both parents. From the same scientific literature it is known that men, even more than women, take more leave as leave is paid. Compared to the current situation in which parental leave is legally unpaid, this payment, even if it may be lower, is a step in the right direction and will also lead to an improvement. It is expected that this will reduce the relative difference in intake between men and women by introducing paid parental leave. Indeed, if men are going to do the same, they also have more time to bond with their children and also contribute to the more equal distribution of tasks and can also match the first period after the birth of the child when it comes to the Cradle. In order to stimulate the use of men, the choice was made for the first year and not for eight years and the non-transferability of paid parental leave. In practice, we often see that when it is transferred this happens to the woman in many cases and that the man does not take leave. That is why we have chosen not to make it transferable to achieve as much effect as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u72	It was just about whether it makes home care more equal or less equal. I have made a calculation based on the government's expectation that mothers will be home for an average of 6.4 weeks and fathers will be home for an additional 2.4 weeks on average. I think that is a very big difference in being extra at home as a result of the legislative proposal. I wonder how the Minister sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u73	I've got it right here. The estimates are based on the assumption that 60% of fathers and 80% of mothers will take paid parental leave. This has to do with the figures we already have from, for example, collective agreements where such a scheme is available and where we have experience. Compared to the current situation where about 25% of fathers use unpaid parental leave, this is, of course, a significant improvement, from 25% to 60%. That's what I just said about the relative difference that's getting considerably smaller. Nor should the Chamber forget that paid parental leave is on top of the birth leave which has just been extended from two days to six weeks, with the mother's father or partner receiving paid leave. So the combination of those two things will give a firm boost to the use of these leave forms for men as well. Is it expected that more women will take advantage of it? Yes, that is true, but that also has something to do with what I just said to Mrs Stienen, namely with all kinds of other factors that still apply in the Netherlands on the labour market, perhaps more cultural factors and habits and practices that also lead to a disproportionate distribution of participation between men and women in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is still a part-time champion, including in Europe. But this does take another step in the right direction to bridge the gap. Is this gonna fix it all? No. I think we need other developments for that, too. Mrs Prast asked if I have the picture of whether paid parental leave affects the choice for more children. I find that a difficult question to answer, because it is not a purpose of the scheme or the bill, but it may well be that leave arrangements take into account parents' consideration of how you combine this. But it does not seem to me to be a decisive argument for this bill. It could be, but it's a stretch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u74	Thank you. Do I understand now that the Minister, in calculating how much will be used, has assumed that it has no effect on more or less children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u75	In any case, even in budgetary calculations, only first-order effects are included, and not second-order effects, for example, or with all kinds of behavioural changes. These are also the budgetary rules and the valuation rules of the Ministry of Finance. This means that this is very difficult to include in the coverage of such a bill, as with Mrs Stienen's question about participation. We all expect that participation will increase in the long term and that more hours will be chosen. This also has a positive effect on tax revenues. That could be another justification for doing other things. But this wasn't included in the bill. Mr Schalk asked what is meant by promoting gender equality. It's about husband and wife, wasn't it? Gender equality is indeed meant for men and women. The promotion of gender equality, in the framework of the legislative proposal and also of the directive, is intended to facilitate a more equal distribution of work and care. That's the simple translation. Now there is another culture in which caring for children is more a task for mothers and in which the fathers provide more income. This is still the case in the Netherlands too. That makes it difficult for men and women who want to change and who want to see culture differently, as it were. Of course, parents can decide for themselves how to do this. It is ultimately the freedom of people and individuals themselves how they want to shape this. But through this kind of regulation, and also through all kinds of tax regulations, we are trying, as Mr Schalk knows, to create behavioural effects that are intended, for example, to create a broader basis for support for our collective provision. Mrs Stienen and Mrs Oomen and Mrs De Blécourt asked: what are the expected labour market effects? Direct labour market effects are negative. Labour supply is, as it were, being withdrawn from the labour market. That is, of course, only for the duration of leave. Based on the scientific literature, ibo part-time work from a number of years ago comes to the conclusion that taking leave by men leads to a more equal distribution of care tasks. There may then be a positive impact on the employment rate of women. That is the conclusion of ibo part-time work. For example, there is a positive effect because one of the parents can stay home for a longer period after birth. This makes the choice to work less necessary. Parents are often reluctant to bring their babies to care at a very young age, which means that women in particular are going to work significantly less hours or perhaps even temporarily stop working. That also stays in place after that, so you keep seeing a hole in it. Secondly, the inclusion of parental leave by men contributes to a more equal distribution of care tasks, thereby giving women more room to be active in the labour market. On both sides, a positive labour market impact can arise. Mr President, I have two more cubes. First of all, on the evaluation. Originally it was after five years, but in the Lower House has already been asked to do it earlier and has been chosen for a period of three years. A number of questions have been added by Mr Ester, Mrs Stienen and Mrs Sent. Mr Ester asked: can you include in the evaluation the effects for certain groups, for example the lower income groups, the single-earners and the single-parent families? Mrs Stienen of D66 had asked about the attitude of employers. Mrs. Sent mentioned the use of income. As with the Cradle, paid parental leave will be extensively evaluated. The use of leave, broken down by background characteristics, such as income, and reasons for non-use shall be considered, inter alia. They also ask: why didn't you use the scheme? The evaluation is a good time to reconsider whether the current scheme is satisfactory. Following Mrs Sent's input, the assessment by the Cabinet will also be appreciated, so that it can be part of the political debate. In addition, the effects of leave will be considered, such as the impact on the distribution of tasks between men and women and the employment rate of female workers. In addition to the perspective of employees, attention will also be paid to the views of employers. I would say to Mrs Stienen that we want to include this in the evaluation. Mr Ester had a question about the impact in the neighbouring countries. I would also like to include that question in the evaluation. I think it's very soon to do an evaluation after a year. Of course, such a law needs time to work before you can measure any effects. The three years chosen in the House of Representatives are a sensible period for me to say something sensible about the effects of the bill. Could be two years. That would be, in a manner of speaking, a result of wheels and deals. I think it is good to really look at what such a law does in practice, so that we can draw sensible conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u76	I am listening very carefully to Mr Koolmees. He's talking about the evaluation. That's what we've been asked about. But I also asked for this. With Centerdata or other panels we have in the Netherlands, it is quite easy to get an idea in advance of which people include how much at certain payment rates? Of course, that's not a behavior you can see in an evaluation, but it does give a picture. My question was whether the Minister is prepared to investigate that before we vote on this bill. Then we have a much better idea of the problem that we are all actually identifying here, namely that we are afraid that it does not have the effects you would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u77	For the estimates, we have used the schemes that are already in place, for example in collective agreements where payments of 50% or 70% have been agreed, often for different periods, for example one month or four weeks or six weeks. We did use it to make an assessment of which part it records. The second point I just mentioned in an interrupting debate on the gender gaps that are getting smaller. This is, of course, also based on these experience figures. The third point is that this directive is binding. We must have implemented her on 2 August 2022. So there's not much room in that. It might be interesting to map this as zero measurement. Then we can compare it with the situation in three years' time and see if we can see any differences there. Scientifically, that seems very interesting. I'd like to include that in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u78	Mrs. Prast, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u79	Yeah, just a little bit longer. But is there any information on the use by income level of the estimates of current use in collective agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u80	No, we don't, I guess. I'm gonna check that out for the second term. I take it that's not the case. It is now regulated at collective agreement level and there is just some kind of pay-through. Probably there's no percentage. That's my expectation. For the 50% that is included in many collective agreements, you have to contribute a part. I don't think we have any data on the income background. I'm gonna go check it out for the second term. I'll come back to it. Mr Van Gurp had asked whether the positive labour market effects could still be taken into account. I have already answered that question a little bit in the direction of Mrs Stienen when it was about financial support. I also spoke about it in reply to Mrs De Blécourt's question about what I expected of participation effects. It is complicated, because a quantitative assessment is very difficult, as the literature is also unclear. An effect of leave is of course also that you withdraw part of the labour supply. That is also a direct effect. Now I come to the last block: miscellaneous. Mr Schalk asked why an individual interpretation of paid parental leave was chosen and not an approach at family or household level. I have just said, in response to a question from Mrs Stienen or Mrs Sent, that we have deliberately chosen to fill in the non-transferable variant, including the idea that we want men to use both of these schemes. We know that when you make him transferable, he is often handed over to the woman in practice. Then you wouldn't achieve part of the goal of the bill. That's the choice that was made there. Mr Schalk also asked: if several people apply for leave, how will this work with multi-parent families in the future? It is already possible under current legislation for several parents to take unpaid parental leave within eight years. What is now added is that nine weeks' leave is paid if they are taken in the first year after birth. Parental leave can be taken by the biological parents and by those who live at the same address as the child and sustainably take care of the child as their own. That's the definition in the law. For example, think of a situation where parents are divorced, or one of the parents died, and a parent remarries. Then, under these conditions, the new partner is also entitled to parental leave within the new parent family. Last one. If there is a legal arrangement of parenting, as I see it now, there are more legal parents and all these parents can take leave. You know that this debate is also being held in the Committee on Justice and Security on the preparation of the report of a number of years ago. At the formation table in 2017, we discussed this extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u81	It's probably best we don't know what that report is called. It raises a question for me. If there are biological parents, legal parents and new parents after a divorce, a cloud of paid parental leave may arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u82	A cloud of paid parental leave, how do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u83	Here's what I'm talking about. Some people think that there can be both legal parents and biological parents and have just been suggested that people can be separated so that other people can live in the house. This means that all these people can participate in the paid parental leave scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u84	The definition contained in the law concerns people who play a sustainable role in the education of the child. One of the parents may have died or there may have been a divorce whereby a new partner has become part of the household and may have a role in the education of the child. It is limited to one year after birth, but these examples are indeed there and that space is also provided in this bill. I wouldn't put it directly as "a cloud," Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u85	I do, because it's going to be a whole group that could be gathered around it. They can all participate in this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u86	I don't agree with you. I think there are very good reasons not only to limit it to the biological parents, because there may be many different situations, separation, death, or someone else who cares for the child sustainably, who are in line with the practice of multiple households in the Netherlands. We all want the combination of work and care to be achieved in those households, at least that is my preference. Mrs De Blécourt asked which countries have fully implemented the directive. Some countries which already comply with the Directive do not need to make any changes. So they have already implemented the directive automatically. We know that other countries are busy implementing and are not yet ready. We do not yet know the overall picture, because, of course, the notification of the Member States to the European Commission will only take place towards 2 August 2022. Then we have a complete picture. For many countries, implementation is a complicated thing, because you may need to change something new or percentages. This complexity is present in all countries. This takes some time, as it has taken us some time to transpose this directive into a legislative proposal. I think the latter is about other changes. There is a lot about paid parental leave, but there are also a number of other changes to the legislative proposal. The directive strikes a balance between work and private life of parents, but this legislative proposal also promotes care. The current Dutch legislation is already wider in terms of care leave and calamity leave than in the directive. There is therefore no need for adjustments. With the introduction in 2020 of the Cradle, the extra birth leave for partners, the Netherlands has fulfilled a large part of the requirements when it comes to partner leave. There we do not need to take any additional measures as a result of the directive. However, the target group of supplementary maternity leave is extended to non-insured workers. That is an addition to the directive. Finally, as regards parental leave, we found ourselves in the European rearguard. Now we are joining what many Member States already had, in what is already common in many Member States. However, in terms of care leave, calamity leave and flexible work, positions are reversed. That's where the Netherlands comes in. It's good to say that for once. That's where our arrangements are good. We're gonna pull a leg over here. Then I'll be round again. With the Cradle and with this bill, we are certainly taking a big step towards a better combination of work and care and hopefully a better division of labour between men and women in the household. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u87	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber and I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp van GroenLinks. I hear there's a need for a short suspension. I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u88	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. I am restricting myself to the jumping point, which is, in any case, the rate of payment in our view. During the first term, I was really wondering what's going on here. We have heard a remarkably large consensus in this Chamber in the first term at eight out of the nine political groups, including the government groups. It was said: "With that 50% you run a great risk of not achieving the goals. Go to 70%." The law offers this possibility. So we're not asking for anything that goes against the law. We're not asking for anything on top of the law. We're just asking you to take advantage of the possibility provided by the law. If that is so widely asked, I honestly expect a minister, in particular this minister, to say: "Guys, I heard you very well. If that is so broad, the House of Representatives has of course spoken in that direction too...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Just give me a minute." I didn't hear him say that. Then suddenly we come back into an old political culture. I'm sorry to use it again, but we also need to work on a slightly different political culture here. "Yeah, but cover this and that and sister and stuff." I think you have nine months to find cover. You say that parents have time to prepare for parental leave. That's nine months too. It makes me a little creepy. I think you choose to have a child, but you don't choose to have a semi-paid job. You and, of course, your successor also have nine months to think about where we find it in the budget as a whole during the budget preparation for 2023. Then there's the second argument. I actually think that's just wrong politics. Eight of the nine groups here say, "Do that." You say, I say it a little flat: we'll take care of that at the formation table; have faith in it, or don't trust it. We are part of the People's Assembly here. We think, from our point of view, of the effectiveness of the law with regard to the proportionality of the means employed. Then I'm sorry we can't get past that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u90	Can I ask Mr Van Gurp if he has any idea of how the funds could or should be paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u91	Yes, we do. I also said that I didn't want to break. That's kind of what you do. We are not amending here. We give general statements. The bill states that an increase in the Aof premium, if I say so, by 0.1 percentage points will yield 200 million. 0.1 percentage points is therefore more than sufficient. Fortunately, there is a large overdose of general drugs. Anyway, that's gonna get passed out. However, that could also be the case. If you want, you can look at the child support. This is also part of the current proposal for cover. You can say: we all assume positive labour market effects, but we cannot take them into account. So there is a range of possibilities. Actually, I think it's nice when you say this. There's a whole package. Before we start pecking and poking about that, I actually hear less about that in the First Chamber, should you reasonably say that you should be able to find the less than 200 million a year it costs? Minister, take the space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u92	Thank you. Mrs. De Blécourt, that's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u93	That's your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u95	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u96	Good. That didn't happen. Oh, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u97	Do I hear Mr. Gurp say that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u98	From Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do I hear Mr Van Gurp say that child benefit can be further eroded? That means that the people who are already in a very difficult situation and need child benefit are being taken extra to set up a system now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u100	Now we come to the limits of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u101	I have paraphrased, referring to the package of measures, the current coverage. I didn't express my own preference for it. I have said that there are things that appeal to me more and less, but that is not really what I think about this Chamber. There are enough budgetary possibilities to make such a wide-ranging wish for this amount possible. Then I regret that it stumbles on "no cover." It is as it is, at least the political debate is as it is, unless the second deadline brings that about. However, I now have a choice as to whether or not I am going to table a motion. In view of the disappointing progress of the first term on the part of the Minister, but the hopeful first term on the part of the Chamber, I shall table the next motion with the support of Mr Sent, Mr Janssen and Mr Prast. The: Mr Van Gurp, Mr Sent, Mr Janssen and Mr Prast proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[after hearing the treatment of the Parental Leave Act;]] [[having regard to the fact that Article 6:10a of the Act provides that the rate of payment for the date of entry into force of the Act may be changed by royal decree to 70%;]] [[having regard to the fact that a 70% payment rate is very much in favour of achieving the objectives of this law;]] [[calls on the government to increase the rate of payment for the entry into force of the law to 70%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35613-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u102	It should not have been necessary for me, so perhaps the undertaking in question will come into second place. It is, of course, the most beautiful thing if we can get it done together and the Minister, in this way, I would like to say that from the cradle to the cradle of the cradle to at least the last moment of him in this Chamber and in this position, may come to a successful conclusion during this period of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u103	Thank you, Mr Ester, on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u104	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering our questions. Paid parental leave offers the possibility of a better attachment of the newborn child to both parents. It relieves parents in the rush hour of their lives, in which 24-hour care for the baby must be combined with domestic work and paid labour. Those are inconvenient plus points. However, the legislative proposal raises the question of the European Commission's power of direction in the social domain. This is a classic question of subsidiarity and proportionality. My group has taken note of the Minister's view. Our sincere thanks for that. We see this as a starting point and not an end to a necessary political debate on this key issue. The Christian Union Group also needs to strengthen and develop its own vision on this issue. Unfortunately, I, too, could not tempt the Minister to give an unbridled positive opinion on an increase in the rate of payment. My group remains deeply concerned about that percentage. The research carried out by NRC Handelsblad......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The fall in income is simply too great for them. The same fate could threaten this bill. That's certainly not imaginary. We think the 50% payment is tight and we hope that the percentage will be discussed at the formation table and will lead to an increase. Fortunately, the bill can provide for this quickly. In the meantime, we can live with this bill, albeit grumpy. We also welcome the Minister's commitment to focus the evaluation on the impact of the legislative proposal on groups facing financial difficulties: lower incomes, single-parents and single-parent families. My group remains in favour of funding paid leave from collective funds, also heard the debate in the House of Representatives. We do not want to place this on the employers' sign for a substantial part. The leave system, as we have shared with the Minister, is a lot like a patchwork. Many workers appear to be unaware of their rights. We therefore welcome the Minister's commitment to provide a criminal communication path. The Minister is a cheerful man. This is also apparent from his optimistic prognosis of a more equal take-up of parental leave by men and women. My group has a somewhat more moderate expectation of this, but here too the evaluation will have to be conclusive. We must also count the blessings on all these concerns. Above all, let us not forget that, simply because there is progress in comparison with the current unpaid leave scheme. The cup is half full, in the Minister's terminology, and not half empty. Let me underline that. I thank the Minister once again for answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Sent on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his passionate answer to our questions. "Optimism is a moral duty," I learned from Kant, through the minister. However, where the Minister sees the glass mainly half-full, my group also sees a half-empty glass. That's because of the 50% choice. That's a concern that lives wide in this room. Several studies show that leave is most often taken with a fee of 80% or more. In the case of leave for parents of a lower income class, it is possible to come below the minimum wage when taking leave. That is why the financial barrier to taking leave is the greatest for lower-income parents. My group doubts whether the present legislative proposal complies with the EU directive. In fact, according to this directive, the level of payment should not hinder the taking of leave. That is why we have co-signed Mr Van Gurp's motion. We would like to request that this motion be put to the vote prior to the legislative proposal. Where things go wrong is if we look at the costs of the legislative proposal before us and not at the revenues. For example, the Danish sociologist Gøsta Esping-Andersen calculated that the Danish government's spending on family policy generated a return of 43%, due to the extra income generated by women. This must be taken into account, not just the direct costs. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to give an appreciation to the evaluation of the proposal before us and to share it with this Chamber so that it can take action if it so wishes. I would like to finish with my favorite quote from my favorite philosopher Loesje: "children are the future if their parents get one too." This is a philosopher from a very different category than the minister's favorite philosopher, Kant, but this is also wisdom. It would be nice if the legislative proposal before us could make a contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Can the Chamber accept and grant leave for Mrs Sent's request for the Van Gurp and others motion? put to the vote under letter G prior to the vote on the bill? That's the case. Then this is how it will be done. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Prast, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started saying this afternoon that I initially thought "who can oppose this bill?', But I was a little freaked out when I went into it. I am not entirely reassured in this debate, but I am glad that the motion will be put to the vote before we vote on the legislative proposal next week. I must say that I am a little surprised and also disappointed that the government is focusing it entirely on the results of the evaluation to determine who is actually taking that leave, to gender and to income levels. On top of the groups that have already passed the review, I would like to draw attention to those households where the man deserves much more than the woman. They do not even have to have a very low income together, but then the incentive is very much in the direction that it will be only or especially the woman who is going to take parental leave. I will use this week to discuss with my group how we are going to vote next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And, of course, thanks to the Minister for the way in which he answered and the good discussion about it. I continued to draw attention to an aspect he mentioned, namely that this law would promote the relationship between parents and their child and a stable relationship with the child. I suppose that would be possible without this law, otherwise it would be very acidic! There has also been talk of behavioural effects. I am pleased that both Mrs Stienen and the Minister have indicated in the course of this debate that there must of course remain freedom of choice, but the Minister has made it quite clear that the government is steering on behavioral effects. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has a different view of this. What I was wondering about was what we talked about with each other. I took the exact piece of legislation with it. It says that you must have taken on the care and upbringing of the child sustainably as your own child. I can't imagine that being just because you say to someone, for example to the mother of the child: I take care of this child as my own. Then it must be recorded somewhere or legally secured, otherwise we will indeed get the cloud of people around it. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of talk about that 50%. The lower incomes and the single-earners make this somewhat impossible. That means I'm starting to think of it as a somewhat elitist arrangement, which is good for everyone, except for those at the bottom of the payroll building. Even if it is about 70%, it is still difficult, especially for that lowest income. Of course, every percent is an improvement, but still. Moreover, my group already sees this as a cigar out of its own box. The IACK and the child benefit freeze have been mentioned. I might have been a little bright in my reaction to Mr. Van Gurp. We shouldn't be raising that up any more, should we? Child benefit is already being frozen. What if it's affected even more? It is precisely those families who need it desperately that we should be careful not to do so. Mr President, thank you very much. I am curious to hear the Minister's reaction, including on my subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u112	Mr. Chairman. In reply to the Minister, whom I thank for his answers, I say that in our case the glass is always half full. That means that we will vote in favour of this legislation in any case. I do have some concerns that I'd like to share with the Minister. One concern, which I have also mentioned in the first term, is whether we are implementing the directive correctly. The Minister referred to Article 3 of the Directive. I have looked at it again, but it also states, in recital 31, that it should also be possible for the most deserving to take that leave. I wonder if that's exactly what we're doing. Then, Mr President, the consequences for the lowest incomes. I'm sorry about that. I would like to thank the Minister for his comment on streamlining all leave arrangements in the future. I think that's good. On Europe, the Minister said that we must avoid European headlines on legislation coming from Europe. I mean, of course, directives coming from Europe, because regulations cannot do that. That is right and I fully agree with that, but I have not yet seen a single social directive on which the Netherlands has put a European head on it. I haven't seen them, but the minister may have another one. I found your explanation about the yellow card procedure... if you as the Netherlands hand out the yellow card, you stand side by side... a very nice one. I thought, "God, I'm being heard." Then the minimum wage. There is one argument that I could mention. Look, we also have an interest in a directive on minimum wage in the Netherlands. Why do I say that? Because a lot of work is done across borders. We are always talking about a level playing field, and I think the Minister could have mentioned that. Mr President, that is just about what I would like to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u113	Thank you. Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u114	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the VVD Group understands that it can congratulate the Minister. So we congratulate him. It was in the paper. Oh, the rumor goes, I hear now. Well, then let's not sell the skin yet... Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions in detail. The VVD Group cannot support an uncovered motion; it does not want to do so. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group is pleased that the Minister is so honest to acknowledge that it is a difficult law for the small employer to implement. He did set a good example of the counter employee. The VVD Group can do something with that. However, the VVD Group would like the Minister's commitment that the evaluation should take explicit account of the effects on the small employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u115	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to come back to the legal sustainability of implementing this directive at 50%. The Minister states that he does not expect this to be a problem, but I would venture to doubt that this transposition does not fall below the minimum standard of living. The directive clearly says 'there must be an appropriate level of payment', and I simply see that this is not an appropriate level of payment for a lot of people. There is a 12% obstacle, and the Minister himself admitted it in the event of interruption. Now I have a very specific question for the Minister. Then I have a very specific question to ask the Minister: apart from the desirability and so on, but equally purely legal, does the transposition of this directive become legally more robust at 70% rather than the present 50%? It is not a question of desirability, but is it legally more robust if it is 70% instead of 50%? The Minister argued that with that 50% contribution, you show that you really want to take care of your child. It may cost, because I really want to take care of my child. But the lowest incomes can't. That's where the motto will be: I want to, but I can't. I think that is an extraordinary argument, which the Minister should not really use, let me put it this way. In reply, the Minister also ignores the fact that it is made impossible for those lower incomes. The regulation is complicated, obstructing. In this form, therefore, as far as the SP Group is concerned, the scheme does not offer any obstacles and thus equal opportunities for all because of its financial impact. What the Minister is doing now is asking us to agree to a law that increases inequality in the labour market and puts children of low-wage parents at a disadvantage. Because, on request, the Minister said about the impact on children: they are very positive; longer leave contributes to the well-being of the child; parents can build a better relationship with their child. Yeah, so not for those parents for whom this is made impossible. That's what the Minister says. And then we'll have a debate on coverage very soon. The Minister said that Mr Janssen proposed to do it from the general budget. No, Mr Janssen said that the ESC had proposed to do it from the general funds and that the cabinet had ignored that and that it itself had come to what is now before us through all kinds of complex constructions. I have said that I think it is a model of an ugly political compromise. The Minister will say: yes, but it took me a year to do this. This also indicates how some parties seem to have no interest in this. That makes it very painfully clear again. How is this a correct transposition of a directive if 12%, as the Minister says, is not an appropriate level of payment and can constitute a barrier? Where does this binding directive say that it should only apply to 88% of people? I really don't get this. The Minister always replies that zero is less than 50%. That's not the point. Everything above zero is more than zero. What matters is whether it does not create obstacles, as Mrs Oomen clearly pointed out, and whether it is an appropriate level of payment, whether it is more than zero and what the Cabinet has left for it. That's another consideration. I find it quite shocking that this bill almost excludes one in eight people from the use of this regulation. What I find even more shocking is that this is apparently the result of a year of political strutting, if I understood the Minister like that. The most feasible thing that comes to us after a year of political sophistication is a proposal that increases inequality in the labour market and actually makes this leave impossible for one in eight. Along this line, I will also discuss with my group whether we can vote in favour of this proposal or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u117	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? I'm suspending for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u118	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you also to your Chamber for the questions asked and the comments made in the second term. There were still two points remaining from the first period I would have come back to. The first was from Mrs Prast: whether there are data at income levels of people. They are not there, because this is at collective agreement level and employers and employees carry it out, and they often just pay a percentage of the wage until it is registered somewhere. So we don't have that data. We can try as a starting point, as I said, to have a sense of who is using it and why, and why not, and to include this in the evaluation. But we don't have any gross figures. The other question that had remained in the first period was Mr Janssen's point: does the UWV have the possibility to deviate if, for example, there is hardness in practice? The answer is: there is no hardness clause in this law; it is not in this. What is true is that, also in the face of unprecedented injustice, we are now working on the cabinet response to the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance, and in particular BZK and JenV, on the question of whether the General Law on Administrative Law requires adaptation in order to give that scope for implementation, so that we can give it more hands and feet in practice. That's one. And on the occasion of the motion for a resolution, as I have just said, we are now mapping out what kind of toughness there are in social security legislation, but also what possibilities there are for implementing the human dimension. And last night Mr Camps was indeed with Radar on the occasion of the SP-blackbook and the hotline on the UWV. He also explained that we are in the process of mapping it and giving it space. As you may also know, we have released from my mind EUR 300 to 400 million, precisely for the implementation at UWV and SVB, in order to be able to introduce that human dimension into practice. Then it is about recovery policy, how to fix mistakes, but indeed also about the toughness you encounter in practice and what changes in laws and regulations that require.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u120	But for the sake of legislative history, let me put it this way: the Minister agrees with me that it would be desirable for this law, too, if, as should be the case for the implementing authorities, there is the possibility of being able to deviate for reasons of hardness or human standards, and that it is not currently in the law, but it should be read as being desirable if this were to happen, and that would preferably be the case before 2 August 2022, if this law were to enter into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u121	In a generic sense, I agree with you, and that should really apply to all laws. So for all the laws that the UWV implements, there should be that space for that. That is why it is actually a generic task for both the UWV itself, when it comes to applying the human measure and correcting mistakes that are made, as well as for the legislator, when it comes to the regulations in which there is inherent hardness, for example when it comes to payback periods or the scope to make agreements on them. But that's a big deal. This is not only true of this law; it is true of all the regulations that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u122	But then it would have been desirable that this had already been done, unless the Minister says: through the Awb we would like a very broad hardness clause, so that any legislation, even where it is lacking, should actually be read in such a way that it should also apply to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u123	The hope and expectation is indeed that second, so that we can implement it more generically. That is difficult, I shall say, with the AWB and the substantive legislation that lies underneath. But sometimes it is also quite aware that a kind of hardness has been introduced, to prevent, for example, improper use. But that's why the ministry of JenV and BZK are working on this, to see how you can translate this into human size space in the execution, not only at the UWV, but also at the SVB, the CBR, the DUO. So that is broad, but that is what we are doing, as a result of unprecedented injustice. Then I come to the second term, and then I do the order of the speakers. I shall begin with Mr Van Gurp. I am always sorry if Mr Van Gurp is disappointed, because we always have a very positive debate culture together. I also understand his political point. That is also in line with the position of GroenLinks in this regard. It is also in line with eight of the nine groups in your Chamber today, as Mr Van Gurp rightly said. Of course, it has also been discussed in the House of Representatives when discussing the bill. What I do not think is entirely right about the situation is the fact that this coverage is indeed a point. As regards the examples that have just come along, I have already noticed from Mrs De Blécourt and Mr Schalk's reaction that there is a different view. Think, for example, of the Aof bonus for employers. I am thinking of an interview with Ingrid Thijssen last week in the Financieele Dagblad, but also of Mr Schalk's comment on child benefit. That shows exactly why this is so complicated. So a call to do something for 190 million, although I personally think it might be a very sympathetic idea... In fact, in a party program of a political party for which I have written the election program, it is also true. But that's not the point. With all due respect, I have also negotiated this with the former coalition and I have come to a certain level of cover. I didn't get another step into that cover. What I find to be the gain of both the debate in the Lower House and the debate today in the Upper House is that there is a broad call to do so. But I cannot, certainly not as a outgoing Minister for Social Affairs, ignore the fact that there is indeed a financial gap to be covered, on which there must also be broad agreement. That sounds like a lame old political argument, but frankly I do not think that does justice to this discussion, because it has to come from the length or width. If it is to be sought on my own budget, it is to be found in benefits or child benefit or such schemes. If it is to come from the generic rules of the general budget, it is also something on which all my colleagues have all kinds of wishes in the financial sense. That's why I'm struggling a little bit with the motion, I'm telling you the truth. I understand your political point very well. Just formally, you're calling on the government, so it's not obliging me to do anything. It's a call to do that. Let me put it this way: I hear, not only in this Chamber but also in the House of Representatives, from various parties the call to settle this before the entry into force. I just can't commit to results or make promises. That really depends on whether there is a political majority, which also agrees on its financial coverage. You will hear from my answer that I do have a certain preference for it, but I cannot go any further. That would be if outgoing minister didn't choose from me, not even given the agreements I made in the past. Then I am sorry that we are not reaching each other today. I see it more as a political signal towards formation and the period after that, but this motion with letter G I cannot give judgment Chamber. Mr Ester made an interesting speech about the European Commission. There was also a discussion on subsidiarity and proportionality. What is the legal framework? He's absolutely right about minimum wage. I think Mrs Oomen was right to say the same. That's a theme coming up. That is potentially a big theme. Mrs Oomen is right: the level playing field applies there too. But if you implemented the Dutch minimum wage in Poland or Romania, so to speak, then all competitiveness will be destroyed. You have to take that into account. So you can't. This indicates that it is not a black and white discussion. It's often a gray discussion. That is why this European consultation, and the willingness to compromise at European level, is so very important. I am glad that I have been able to convey some of my enthusiasm for this to your Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u124	Mr President, we now have a bit of a novelty. We have heard what the Minister's opinion on the motion is not, but not yet what it is. That can also be: redundant or whatever. You said it wasn't judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u125	How did I put it? Did I formulate it as, "Don't judge Room"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u126	You said you couldn't give the motion judgment Chamber. Then it becomes: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u127	Yeah, I'll have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u128	For the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u129	Yes, for the Acts. Thank you. I thought: I am doing it a little implicitly, to ease it a bit for Mr Van Gurp, but Mr Schalk failed again. Where was I? I agree with Mr Ester: the cup is half full, not half empty. The point made by Mr Ester, but also by Mrs Sent and Mr Janssen with regard to the minimum wage is in some sense and to some extent insoluble. The increase in benefits from 50% to 70% does reduce the proportion of people below the social minimum from 12% to 7%, but does not prevent this. This is inherent in a percentage as a benefit. That is the situation as it is today, absolved from all kinds of other existing schemes, such as supplements and income support measures. Now I do not want to call for this, because these regulations are complex and they also make a lot of mistakes, which we also have to deal with in the future, but that is, of course, the fact. Then I come to Mrs Sent's contribution. "Optimism is a moral duty," that's my pronunciation and I use it a lot. So that's right. And I'll do an exorcism. As a teenager with long hair, I stuck Loesje posters. I hope it is now time-barred, because I think it was illegal to stick those things. But yes, I did because I was also a fan of Loesje. So it's nice that this quote is back on the table here. My hair was purple at the time, but that aside. Yes, that was at the time of the purple cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u130	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u131	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I say to Mrs Prast that I await the discussions in her group before the vote. Once again, I think that this legislative proposal is really a step in the right direction, and I think that we are putting the structure in place to shape this as of 2 August next year. From zero to 50% is really a big step forward. Are we there? No, there is still a world to win when it comes to the combination of work and care, participation and equal distribution between men and women in the Netherlands. I agree with Mrs Prast immediately, but I hope she will see that this is a step in the right direction. I can say to Mr Schalk that there can certainly be a connection between children and parents without this law. I do not so much believe in a makeable government, but I am convinced that this law makes the combination of work and care better. I also agree with Mr Schalk that freedom of choice must remain. Apart from that, a lot of policies do have behavioural effects. This is not only about taxation or about the discussion of a earner-two earner, which Mr Schalk often calls attention to, but also about environmental legislation or excise duties. These are all tools that are used to achieve desired behavior. The only point made by Mr Schalk that I could not quite place was the one about the cigar from our own box, because in some sense the financing of our collective resources is always a cigar from our own box. I do agree with him that the cover has to come from somewhere, because it's not free. So the fact that a part comes from the Aof premium, part from the IACK and part from the child benefit, has to do with making choices in times of scarcity. Mrs Oomen is also somewhat optimistic in that the glass is half full, but she has some concerns, which I also recognise and understand. As far as the highly-earned are concerned, I have already said to Mr Janssen that it has been reduced to the level of the sv-day wage, that is to say the maximum daily wage. I do agree with Mr Janssen that this group usually has more room to move with income or possibly to absorb income losses than the group at the bottom. So there is a difference, but at the same time, if you have a high income and you only get 50% of the maximum sv-day wage, the income gap is, of course, very strong. Of course, all kinds of other liabilities, such as mortgages, are based on this. I also understand Mr Janssen's point; it is not symmetrical. The possibilities to slide are certainly greater with two-earers. Mrs Oomen interpreted my comment on the European headline as if I were against it. It is more that I found that both the Lower House and the Upper House often say: no European headlines. I think it was even in the Rutte 1 coalition agreement. I actually wanted to say more that it is a broad-sensed policy starting point. Not that I am necessarily against it when it serves charities, but I understand that your Chamber is also critical of it. I am glad that Mrs Oomen also feels heard when it comes to European politics. Mrs De Blécourt mentioned congratulations. I don't know yet; I'll wait and see. I would like to promise that I will include the small employer in the evaluation, so that we can also keep a finger on the wrist and see where they stand in practice. I'd like to do that. Finally, Mr Janssen, first on the question of legal sustainability. As I said in my first term, we believe that the legal sustainability is good and that it is right. I said that there were no comments on this throughout the whole process, not even in the opinion of the Council of State. In the negotiations in Europe, Member States have been allowed to fill this out. Therefore, an adequate level has been chosen and no percentage has been prescribed. This has been done at the request of several Member States, because it increases the freedom of policy for countries. In our view, therefore, this law is legally sustainable and we are thereby implementing the directive. What else could it be? I don't want to speculate about that. That would give rise to the suggestion that it would be better or different. No, this law is legally sustainable in this form in our view. I do not agree with Mr Janssen's statement that this law increases the inequality of opportunity in the labour market. I just don't agree with that. Together with him, I note that some of the people, due to a percentage of the last-earned income, may be below the social minimum. I recognize that. We have tried to take that into account in the design, for example with the sliding. And that is what I am giving Mr Janssen: it is less easy for people on lower incomes than for those on higher incomes. I recognize that, too. But I do not believe that this step, from 0% to 50% for those nine weeks, is a step backwards. I really don't believe that. I really think this is a step forward when it comes to the combination of labour and care in the broad Dutch labour market. With regard to the income consequences at the bottom, I do think that, not only with this law, but also with regard to, for example, partner leave and the Cradle, we are thinking of the NRC article to which Mrs Sent referred, for example, with the income-dependent reduction. This leads in practice to a very high marginal pressure for people entering that income path, for example because they do not work full-time. Some people may also be below the social minimum gross, because they do part-time work, for example. There is, of course, also a point of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u132	This is the easiest thing to do. At the moment when you introduce new legislation or a new scheme that is uneven in effect between higher incomes and lower incomes and which is less easily accessible for lower incomes than for higher incomes, you introduce inequality. And that adds something to the inequality that already exists. It has always been my group's aim to reduce inequality in the labour market and unequal pay, not to add anything to it. The Minister may see this differently, but I am not convinced by his arguments. In our view, this legislation is currently adding something to this inequality, due to the difference in accessibility for higher and lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u133	I do not agree with Mr Janssen. The scheme is generically the same. It's the same percentage. I can see that people with more income have more opportunities to take leave and shift over time. I can see that, and I don't deny it. However, I do not believe that the introduction of a paid parental leave scheme for 50% of your last earnings for those nine weeks, based on the situation we now have, would increase the division into the labour market. I don't see that. Then I would like to say that there are all kinds of other schemes, such as bonuses, income-dependent support and that sort of thing. I'm gonna take a break from that for a while, because I'd like to stay away from that for a while. But I don't see that. Then we disagree, and that's allowed in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u134	Finally, Mr President. I hear the Minister say that people with more income have more opportunities to take this leave than people with less income. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u135	I didn't say that. I said that people with more income have more opportunities to move with incomes or pay leave. That's the formulation I just used. That is a different conclusion from what Mr Janssen calls it. Again, that's okay. This is a political home and a political debate. Thank you! I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u136	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-eerstekamer-10.u137	I've come to deal with bill 35613, the law on parental leave. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on on 12 October. I propose that we also vote on the motion tabled on 12 October. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Minister and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
