ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the final report by the informant. I would like to welcome Mrs Hammer, in section K, as well as the Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery. I'd like to ask the MPs to take their place. As I said, the debate is on Mrs Hammer's final report on her work. Before we proceed to the debate, perhaps I would remind you that the purpose of the debate is to take the next step in the formation. I would like to point out that there is already a name circulating in the press of another informant, but it is up to the Chamber. The decision-making process has yet to take place. That is exactly what this debate is about. I value saying that. I just indicated that we are meeting: six questions and/or comments. In addition to a request, I say that it is important to answer the questions. Everyone's got four minutes. Then I will give the floor to Mrs Hammer to give information. It is not a debate with Mrs Hammer; it is really about asking factual questions. I would also ask you to keep your interruptions brief and concise. Well, then we're gonna start in this new room. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD. It is also good to make it clear that Members of Parliament are not present here as directors but as part of their group. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. What a beautiful hall! I think it is the third time in the history of the Netherlands that the House of Representatives meets in another place. First it was in the old ballroom of Willem V. That was withdrawn in the 1990s. Now we're temporarily in this room. But with all the worries I had, if anyone hated that change, about the question "what about that room?" I actually think it's beautiful. That is what I wanted to say in this first larger debate, although of course Question Time has already taken place here. Mr. Chairman. The situation that has arisen, I should immediately drop the door in the house, which is not a good thing. Personally, I'm not happy about that. I don't think we're all happy about it. It is a bad thing that, so long after the elections, it has not been possible to bring parties together so that talks can be held about a coalition that can count on fruitful cooperation with the House of Representatives. The Netherlands is economically well off the corona crisis, but there are very big issues that need to be resolved. I refer to the major themes surrounding climate and nitrogen. I refer to the major issues surrounding the housing market. I refer to the major issues of undermining. All these things require a Handlungsfähige, as the Germans say, a government that is able to achieve fruitful cooperation with this House of Representatives. As foreman and last-chosen leader of the largest party in the Netherlands, I naturally feel a great responsibility there, and personally in particular, although I know that I am not the only one who feels this way. I think we all feel that way, but once again, that also affects me, of course, particularly as foreman of that biggest party. At the same time, I believe that it is now necessary to take the next steps with urgency and confidence. I'm gonna do the same if it's up to me and my party, if that's what we were given. I embrace the informant's report. I would like to thank her very much for her patience, for her humor, for the fact that she wanted to do it for so long. She wrote me a text this afternoon saying that this could be an historic formation. I said, "Well, it's already a historical formation." The excellent way in which she accompanied the talks and also the process, which enabled us to arrive at a document on the main lines, together with the Group of Democrats 66, I have greatly appreciated. She recommends that an informant be appointed from the circle of my party, from the VVD, who is going to supervise the coalition negotiations, where it is now obvious that she writes to direct them to the formation of a minority coalition. To that end, I shall table the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u3	Before you begin, I would like to request permission from the Chamber that the motion be submitted in the first term. Let us do that first, then I will give Mr Wilders the floor immediately. Is there any support for Mr Rutte to table a motion in the first term? Is there any objection to that? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u4	Depends on what kind of motion it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u5	Then I'll have to read it to you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u6	Then you'll have to read it to me first. I will first give you the opportunity to read out the motion and then I will go to Mr Wilders for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u7	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[noting that the informant concludes in that report that if a majority cabinet cannot be formed, a minority cabinet will be represented;]] [[Under Rule 11 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Mr J.W. Remkes as an informant with the task of implementing the opinion, as set out in the report of informant Hamer, taking into account the considerations outlined in the report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u8	Finally, Mr President. It is very important that this formation now accelerates, that we quickly arrive at a cabinet that is still able to change the budget that will be submitted to the outgoing cabinet on Princess Day, in good time, if the new cabinet also wants to implement the major issues of the Netherlands. I mentioned them, I'm not going to repeat them here. I feel this urgency, I feel that obligation, I think that it lives in this Chamber that widely, and so I ask for support for this motion. You can at least assume that we will do everything we can to make this a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Rutte. There are a few interruptions, first of all Mr Wilders and then Mrs Marijnissen. First of all, Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u10	I am surprised that Mr Rutte does not mention the knives in the back that he received yesterday from his great friend, Mrs Kaag. There is no doubt about this in the speech of the President of the Second VVD. A lot's happened. He is now tabling a motion with Mrs Kaag, because that is the advice, to appoint an informant, to investigate minority variants together with Mrs Kaag. What happened yesterday? How can you pretend like nothing happened at all? Yesterday, that whole reality changed again. Mrs Kaag gave you a speech yesterday without mentioning you directly, but the whole of the Netherlands knew who she was talking about. She has said that you are a sort of hustler without vision, she has said about the one who called our country "insanely cool" that it must learn lessons when it comes to humanity and reliability. In other words, you are "really" because of course you were the one who called the Netherlands "a cool country" "untrustworthy and inhumane." You'd better be told that by your negotiating partner. You are inhumane, unreliable and a cheap hustler without vision. But, Mr. Rutte, you can't go on with that, can you? You can't say with dry eyes: I'm not saying anything about it, we're just going to table a motion for further negotiation, including with Mrs Kaag, about a cabinet? That's never gonna work out between you guys again, is it? I thought this was one insult after another. On 1 April it tabled a motion of censure against you, which was adopted. When asked whether you were de facto politically beheaded, she replied: I could not have said it much better myself. She said, "Our paths are separate." Then you did everything you could to get to her in the right book. You signed the D66 election programme in the summer, because that is the piece you presented together. As a thank you, you received six knives in your back yesterday. You're crawling towards her. You don't say stop it. You will continue with that self- chastisement. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u12	No, Madam President, not "thank you." The Netherlands does not deserve this. That Rutte is chastising himself is up to him. But the Netherlands does not deserve a cabinet in which the leader of the VVD bows, crawls, is humiliated and politically abused by the leader of D66 and simply acts as if nothing is wrong. When will it be enough for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u13	This country is facing major issues. We have big problems to solve. I decided not to comment on Mrs Kaag's speech last night in the context of the Schoo lecture. I've decided not to. I do not do that because I want to focus all my energies on creating a cabinet that can count on good cooperation with this Chamber. That is now the importance of the Netherlands. I want to put all my energy into that. Every second, every minute, every ten minutes and every hour of my time I would spend commenting on what happened last night, I cannot stick to promoting the creation of a cabinet. Mr. Wilders also mentioned the piece that D66 and the VVD wrote. I think that's a good piece. It is a document that reflects the views and traditions of the two parties on which it is based. I would like to point out what is in that section about the middle group, the reduction of burdens, SMEs, a safer Netherlands, investing in infrastructure and protecting our values. That is very recognizable for my party. I know this is also the case for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u14	Of course, this can't be described with a pen. This can't be described with a pen! Your colleague from D66, with whom you have been locked up for months, along with Mrs Hamer and the informers, has been politically abusive to the bone. You have it, I say it in my own words, but it is also so accused that it is not enough to do something about humanity. In other words, you are inhumane. She blamed you for being unreliable. She has you because she was referring to you as a political hustler without vision. Those are heavy, heavy accusations and insults. These are not only relevant to you; they are also relevant to the Netherlands. Because the Netherlands has nothing to do with a cabinet in which the leaders of the two largest parties roll around the streets and make each other look like rotten fish and inhumane hustler. I don't want to say she's a bad judge of character, by the way. But it's a fact that she rubbed that on you. You're telling me you're not going to respond to that. I don't accept that. I know that you are not here as Prime Minister and that you are officially not required to provide information. But I think I can ask you what you think of these allegations in the interests of the Netherlands. How do you feel about being called a hustler without vision, unreliable and inhumane? You can't do business with that, can you? Surely there can be no cabinet that is good for the Netherlands? Is it really worth everything to you to stay in the turret? You sign the D66 election program with all the crap about diversity and climate in it. Underneath those building blocks, you just signed your signature. You're being humiliated, insulting, and you're not saying anything just because you want to stay in that turret? What kind of selfishness is this? You don't even explain it. Come on, Mr. Rutte. Please indicate what you think of the political beating you received yesterday from Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u15	I'd say that's all there is to it. But I'm not going to share that with you, Mr. Wilders. I do not do that because every minute I spend on it I cannot spend on solving the big issues of the Netherlands. Mr Wilders blames me for doing everything I can to stay in the Tower. If the VVD ends up in the opposition after this formation, I can assure him that I will support that opposition. He doesn't have to doubt that. We were all elected here. It is wonderful to be in the government, but it is also very honorable to be in the opposition. Should the VVD be in opposition at the end of this formation, I will be proud to support that opposition and take over the leadership of the opposition from Mr Wilders, who is now leading it. So he doesn't have to doubt that. My interest is not the Tower. My interest is the Netherlands. And yes, we're economically good. I told you. We are also in good shape financially. But there are very big problems to solve. There are very serious problems to be tackled. This calls for serious people, who are actually going to tackle these serious problems. That's what I want to put my energy into. I find everything from last night, but I'm not going to share it with you here, Mr. Wilders, or anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u16	Finally, on this point. I think the Netherlands is now beginning to see that the problem with the formation is called Mark Rutte. You're the problem. You don't want to be in a cabinet with the Labour Party and GroenLinks. In itself, that is commendable. You do not want to be in a cabinet with the PVV, Forum for Democracy, BBB and JA21. Maybe not with all of them, but with most of the parties I've mentioned, you don't want to be in a cabinet. You say no to that side of the spectrum. The only person you want to join the cabinet with is you... for rotten fish. Why? Because you want to go to the Tower. Mr. Rutte, your own great ego, for that is it: your own great ego, which says no to the left and says no to the right, but does bow and kneel to the woman who insults you to the bone and politically mistreats you, wants to do everything for the Tower. But the Netherlands really deserves a lot better than you do as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u17	When it comes to ego, I don't know which one of us wins, Mr. Wilders. But then to the content. It is true that we exclude two parties. That is Mr Wilders' party, for the reasons that we have discussed too extensively in the election campaign, some people say, in the many debates in which we have met. And that is indeed Forum. Those are two parties that exclude the VVD. Furthermore, my party does not exclude any other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen van de SP, then Mr Azarkan van DENK, then Mr Van Houwelingen of Forum for Democracy and then we move on. But first, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u19	I also find it too easy for Mr Rutte to say here: I am not going to respond to what has been said by D66, because every minute I spend on it, I cannot spend on solving those big issues. The big problem, of course, is that it hasn't been about these big issues for six months. You won't be able to find an affordable home, or work in care and crave colleagues, or earn the minimum wage and hear the whole campaign go up. Of course, that hasn't happened for six months. It's relevant, because it's also holding the formation. That is why my question to Mr Rutte is: what does he think of the past period? We have been looking at all kinds of politicians who came out every day and said that there was so much talk along the lines of content, but then we read in Mrs Hammer's report that it was not really discussed. If it was about content, it was about the newspaper that morning and who said something about who. How does he look at that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u20	Actually, I've been trying to say that. Perhaps I have implicitly heard an echo of that in her question, because I agree that it is a bad situation. In those five and a half months we have failed to reach a choice of parties that will talk about the content of a programme that can count on cooperation with this Chamber. That's what I'm charging myself for as the foreman of the greatest party. I feel the urgency, the obligation and the energy to actually achieve this very quickly in the coming weeks. I also have confidence that this can work. But I agree with her: the situation as it now presents itself, namely that after five and a half months we have not yet managed to identify which parties want to think about cooperation at all, is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u21	I don't think that's an answer that's needed right now. It's really too easy. You can't just say: I'm really sorry too, and I hope it's gonna be okay? We have heard this over and over again over the last few months and it is not going to be okay. We are dealing with Rutte III, which, of course, has fallen over the surcharge scandal. We then had a very solid debate here on the lies surrounding 'function elsewhere'. A motion of censure has been adopted, with the exception of Mr Rutte's own group. Then yesterday there was the lecture in which the Liberal partner of the VVD made up his mind. That's got to make Mr. Rutte think about it, right? The analysis must be more rich than: I also find it extremely annoying, but I am confident that it will be okay? I don't think more and more people are confident that it's gonna be okay. I think Mr Rutte should answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u22	I believe that the answer lies in the opinion issued by the informant. I think that is a sensible advice with sensible follow-up steps. We take the responsibility for making a proposal here for the appointment of an informant who can accompany that process. We all feel the need and urgency to bring this to a successful conclusion quickly. I dare to say the same about Mrs Marijnissen. It doesn't matter whether that ends in opposition or coalition. Both are extremely honorable. I will devote all my powers to that in the coming time. That is why I am leaving last night and not commenting on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u23	I cannot, of course, force Mr Rutte to do anything, but I would like to say here that I find this really too easy. We have not seen at all the urgency Mr Rutte claims to feel in recent months. That also explains why we are having this debate today in this sphere. Since yesterday, that has only become more acute. I think Mr Rutte should understand that he did win the elections just like D66 and we didn't. That is why we have said: of course it is up to VVD and D66 to pull this formation together. But it doesn't work. Your liberal partner also said yesterday: it is not working. Despite all the fine words we have heard here over the last few months about this so-called new administrative culture, we simply do not see anything. That must be thoughtful and that must ensure that Mark Rutte, as the leader of the VVD, comes up with a better story than: I feel urgency and I also regret that it has not succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u24	Again, I have faith in the advice of the informant. I also think it is wise advice. I also think it is important that, after today, we proceed quickly with this. It will not be up to me in terms of commitment, nor will it be up to my party. I also know that the other parties that have been involved in the talks in recent weeks and months, so D66, GroenLinks, Labour Party, Christian Union and CDA, have done their utmost to see if it was possible to come to a uniform composition of a new cabinet. That was not possible, at least not for a majority cabinet. That was Mrs. Hamer's assignment. I think she has given a sensible opinion. On that basis, I would now like to move forward, if the House supports the motion I tabled by a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u25	This is really embarrassing. With every advice from the next informant, the Prime Minister says he embraces it and he's gonna do his best. In March, he called on parties to find the connection. He himself rules out parties in advance. He doesn't even take the time and effort to talk about the content, because he's afraid he'll agree on the content too soon. We have big issues in this country. Our young people are in big debt. People can't find a place to live. The climate and nitrogen crisis awaits answers. We're six months away. Isn't the Prime Minister ashamed of his role?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u26	As I said, I have a special responsibility as the foreman of the largest party. That is the responsibility for the situation we are in. I am absolutely not happy with that situation. I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u27	What else is this Prime Minister gonna do? 'Cause what did we see here? We had Ollongren and Jorritsma here. We took Tjeenk Willink off the stable. We've had Mrs. Van Ark and Mr. Koolmees. We've got Mrs. Hamer. They're all excellent people. How many more are we gonna wear out? What else is this Prime Minister going to do, so that urgency is turned into action and, as promised, there is talk about content? When's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u28	As Prime Minister, I continue to lead the missionary cabinet. I assume that Mr Azarkan is asking me in my role as the last chosen leader of the VVD and thus as foreman of that party. Again, as the biggest party I feel a special responsibility for that, but it is not of course that the VVD can do so alone. I have noticed in recent weeks and months that it has not been possible to reach an opinion from the informant for a majority cabinet. But I do feel the responsibility of ensuring that a cabinet can be created as soon as possible. GroenLinks, Party of Labour, Christian Union, CDA, D66 and VVD experience and assume that responsibility. Now it has not been possible to achieve a majority variation. That's right. Once again, I believe that the greatest responsibility lies with the largest party, but it is of course not only that party. Unfortunately, we only have 22% of the votes. If we want to achieve a majority, we will of course also have to look with other parties at how we get there, if the VVD were to be there at all. I sincerely hope so. We would like to take responsibility, but it will also have to be a joint responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u29	The Prime Minister, together with Hoekstra, sent two partners away. He said, "I don't even want to talk to you about the content." Now his only partner he's been pulling side by side with for the past six months, last night didn't have four dagger punches, but the whole top class was smashed in his back. What kind of signal is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u30	I told you I'd find a lot of things about that speech last night, but I'm not going to discuss it here, because everything I say about it takes time. That's the time I want to put in the formation. Nor does it contribute to the creation of a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u31	I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy and then to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group, Mr Dassen of Volt and Mrs Simons of BET1. Firstly, Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u32	Did I hear the Prime Minister say with dry eyes that we came out of the corona crisis economically strong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u34	But you know that inflation has never been this high in the last ten years. The inflation figures do not even include house prices. Young people can't get to a home at all and start-ups generally can't. The event business is on its way. The hospitality industry has suffered a very heavy blow due to these absurd corona measures and is now largely on the infusion. How can you say that we came out of this crisis economically strong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u35	The Netherlands is currently one of the best performing economies in the Western world, perhaps the best. I'm very proud that we did that to each other. I didn't. The Netherlands has done so with 17 million people. Last week came from a study by Bloomberg that the Dutch corona approach after Norway was the best in the world, looking at all indicators of both medical, economic and social impact. The corona pandemic naturally has enormous consequences for our country and for the well-being of people. We still haven't gotten rid of it. But if you look at the basis that we now have and the possibilities that there are to translate into the financial sense in the coming years the major issues that lie around, for example, nitrogen and climate, where very large amounts are involved, in a way that it does not automatically have to lead to a severe loss of purchasing power for the people on a small stock market or the people who are part of the broad middle groups, then you see a collective achievement that we have achieved together. Nevertheless, there are problems: the housing market, nitrogen, the climate, but of course also major issues relating to education, security and undermining, and of course our security, defence and our international security. It's big issues we need to solve. That motivates me tremendously to do our best to achieve a workable coalition over the next few weeks with the 22% pie point I have, with the other pie points, which may be a little smaller, but which are added in order to arrive at a workable cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u36	But not with all the cake points, because there are a few pie points excluded; I would also like to mention that. I appreciate that you at least recognize that there are problems, but didn't we buy time? That is to say, we have deep pockets, Mr Hoekstra, who is behind me, can confirm that, and we have thrown billions against it. I do believe that perhaps you can do a little better than other countries, but is that a structural solution? Are we not gonna walk out of time and out of money at some point, and then we're not gonna be on the blisters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u37	Now I have to say something nice about the sitting cabinet; I do not like to do that. I myself made a relatively small contribution to this, so I might mention that: look at Eric Wiebes and then Stef Blok, Wopke Hoekstra and Wouter Koolmees and the design of the support packages. I think that one of the reasons why the Netherlands is coming out of this crisis is the design of these aid packages, the NOW and the TVL, but also all the smaller schemes. I am not saying that at the moment there are no incredibly big problems in the Netherlands as a result of corona, even in a mental sense. This also concerns the people who are going back to university for the first time and who have had a terrible year. This may have a huge impact on the psychological well-being of a lot of people in the longer term. But look in the economic sense at our unemployment figures - the lowest in Europe - and at our interest rate - the lowest in Europe. There are only a few countries in Europe that have triple A status and negative interest rates. The Netherlands is one of them. I am proud that we have done this, not as a cabinet, but with all of us, as the Netherlands. This also provides an opportunity, a basis for resolving the major issues that exist in the coming years, without disproportionate recourse to the purchasing power of the other people in the country. That opportunity and those big issues that lie together create the urgency for me to do everything from my point of view to resolve what we are all not happy about right now, namely the situation that has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr Rutte will no doubt recognize that many citizens are increasingly worried and impatient about the lack of progress in the cabinet formation and that there are so many problems to tackle. He also indicated his willingness to take responsibility for forming a cabinet as soon as possible and to feel the urgency. But he also uses the word "trust." That's what my question is about. What is the basis for confidence that, at this new stage, we can have more prospects for cabinet formation than has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u39	I have, of course, felt a huge sense of responsibility among all the participants in the talks in recent weeks and months, in the intensive discussions with D66 on the joint piece, but also in intensive discussions, in a formal and informal sense, with GroenLinks, the Labour Party, Christian Union and CDA, to ultimately keep this country manageable, from the coalition, if necessary from the opposition. I have noticed in those talks that we all see that there are major political differences. Yeah, there are. But at the same time everyone is also experiencing that is my view and my view, my impression, perpetuated in all these conversations, that it would be mortally sinful if we were still working on this with the combination of the economic situation as it is now and the huge issues that lie ahead. The discontent in the country about the slow formation of the cabinet is exactly the way I feel. Of course there will be a very big finger pointing at myself as well. But not only to myself: we will also have to solve it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u40	If the confidence is based on the sense of responsibility of the other parties, we would have gone further by now, because everyone says so. But the informant also said, in the report that Mr Rutte has just embraced, that it is really unnecessary and unsatisfactory that there is no majority cabinet formed by these parties. I am sure that this will also be of great benefit to those involved. What is Mr Rutte's position on the basis of the confidence that all this can be put behind us for a while? Again, I would also like a solution to be found quickly, but I am also looking for a little bit of ground to support that it could actually fly in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u41	This confidence is based on the many discussions that have taken place in recent weeks and months with all those involved, but also in our democratic tradition, in the tradition of how we in this country should ultimately succeed in bridging differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then Mr Dassen of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u43	I'm not that pessimistic at all. I think I was the only MP present yesterday in the Red Hat at the Hendrik Jan Schoo lecture. I actually enjoyed it. It was a clear story. It was cliff-and-ready. It was very clearly laid down where D66 is going to go and we are going to do it very radically. We're going to allow radically more migration. We're going to find radical solutions for the environment. We're going to radically throw our farmers off their land. We're gonna do all kinds of radical things! So without going into the insults that have just been mentioned by Comrade Wilders, I would like to ask whether you can then comment on the content. Because the VVD as I know it, from under Bolkestein, but also from the period of your early days, is radically different from the picture that was put here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u44	The differences in content, including in the broad political context, between the political parties, of course, are considerable. But so far we have always managed to bridge differences in the country. I am not going to comment on the comments made in my direction last night or on the political orientation. That's really up to every party. There I have my hands full with my own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u45	It has just been said that we are not talking about the allegations, but about the content. I see now that we are not going to talk about the content. Maybe I still have another question, because this leads to a party turning away somewhat from the largest party in this country. The reformer said: we are now on our way to a minority cabinet. Isn't it obvious to investigate another kind of minority, for example a minority cabinet with VVD and the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u46	I think Mrs Hammer's report on what is to be done now is sensible, namely to put together a cabinet from that unfortunately not completely broad, but at least part of it. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u47	Can you at least indicate, on the basis of the content, the electoral programmes and on the basis of what happened yesterday, that the preference lies with a minority cabinet with the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u48	I have often said that we like working with the CDA. It's no different now. But I'm not going to anticipate the information now. It just needs to happen right now. You know the VVD always works very well with the CDA. That's not gonna change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr Dassen van Volt, then Mrs Simons and then Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u50	I have just heard Mr Rutte say that he wants to act as a matter of urgency in the area of the climate crisis and the housing crisis. Then I really wonder: if he wanted to, what would be the worst thing that could happen to him at a time when he would like to join a cabinet with GroenLinks and the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u51	Of course, Mrs Hammer's report says a few things about this. I'm not gonna go deeper on that right now. I do not think that is appropriate. You can read all that back, but at the heart of the matter is two things. The point is that one of the parties is not necessary for the majority. I do not think that this is a reflection of the outcome of the elections, nor does it promote the stability of a coalition. That doesn't mean anything about those two parties. I believe that, as far as I can assess it, it is completely stable, but it is about the stability of such a cabinet. Secondly, there are, of course, considerable differences of opinion on the content, which only accumulate if both parties join a coalition. You can read it all back in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u52	I read the report. It has been very little about the content, so I am curious about that second point anyway. But let me get back to the first point, because I am wondering about stability. The whole of the Netherlands sees that we must tackle these challenges. The support in the Netherlands, outside this Chamber, to tackle the climate crisis, the housing crisis and the growing social inequality is huge. Why is Mr Rutte afraid to sit in a cabinet together with parties who want to tackle precisely the crises he has just outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u53	I refer to the previous answer, which basically means that I do not think it wise to add parties to a coalition that is not necessary for a majority. That's a consistent position I've always taken here. Secondly, there are considerable differences of opinion on the substance with these two parties in relation to my party. That's all fine. That may be possible in good conversations, but the sum sum does make it much more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u54	In my view, you don't break an impasse by adding up. You break an impasse by showing where you want to go as a leader and by setting out a vision of the different crises and challenges we face as a country. As Mr Tjeenk Willink said, there could be other parties to this. It is clear to me that Mr Rutte refuses to do so and rather goes for that sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u55	At the time of the election, I outlined my vision of the Netherlands in the years to come, of how we, if it were up to me, stand in front of it both at the elections of 2025 and at the end of this decade, because, of course, we have major issues. You can also see this in the piece of D66 and VVD, which eventually transcends a cabinet period. That vision has made my party the largest in the elections, and with that vision we are conducting the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u56	The nice thing about Mr Rutte is that he always shows a lot of himself, like before. In the first sentence he pronounced in this new Chamber, he shared with us that he hates change. I wonder how this internal conviction - 'I hate change' - relates to the major change in governance that is needed and which Mr Rutte also promised us would come. He even shopped radical ideas from parties here in the Chamber, and I know that I myself put forward some good radical ideas to him. How does such a deep hatred for change relate to the changes needed for the future of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u57	Luckily, it's not that literal. It was also a bit of a joke, but I'd like to spell it out for Mrs Simons if she wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u58	Not only Mrs. Hammer has humor. Mr Rutte obviously has it, but sometimes you need to get the joke explained. That's no problem at all. Then my next question. Mrs Kaag has made it clear that she sees no salvation in a minority cabinet. How does Mr. Rutte think he's gonna get out with Mrs. Kaag?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u59	Again, I think there is a sensible report from the informant. We have also discussed this with each other as parties. I believe that we should continue to shape the discussions on this basis and I will not respond to them later on last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u60	I am not asking for a response to last night, but for a response to a statement by a negotiating partner from Mr Rutte. When this negotiating partner has made these statements, it is not relevant at all. Furthermore, as a point of order, I would like to point out that it is difficult to debate it with someone who actually says all the time: I am not going to go into that. I would very much like an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u61	I'm always talking about my own answers, and Mrs Simons isn't about my answers. She's about her questions, I'm about my answers. I have always said: I think of everything from last night, but I am not going to share it with you here, because I believe that as foreman of the biggest party, I should lead the formation in the right direction, and because everything I say about last night does not contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u62	I am not asking Mr Rutte for a response to last night. I ask Mr Rutte to respond to the fact that his main negotiating partner has made statements. Once she's made those statements, it's not relevant at all. Whether that was last night or five weeks ago doesn't matter at all. As many people see, an impasse has arisen. There are two main players in this debacle, spectacle or whatever you want to call it. One of them says, "I'm in the mood for a minority cabinet." The other says, "I don't feel like it." I ask for a reflection from one of the two negotiating partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u63	I'm not in the mood for a minority cabinet either. But the reformer is currently finding that, given the political situation, that is now the most sensible route forward. I think it can be made workable, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u64	First Mr Eerdmans of JA21 and then Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mr Rutte is not in the mood, but he does support a minority coalition in this Chamber. That means that there are very interesting possibilities. So you will have to fight for the support of all the proposals you make. That could be on the left, that could be on the right. Do you think that you are making a credible connection to the election results when it comes to the 81 seats we are counting on the right for a strong migration policy, for a different climate policy and for a different Europe policy? Would you do justice to the outcome of the elections to operate dualistically in such a minority coalition as proposed by Mrs Hamer, with a right-wing majority in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u66	I have said it before: even if you have a majority in the House of Representatives, my experience in recent years, the coalition in the House of Representatives may lack a majority. So we have always had to look for cooperation with other parties. I said in the elections that a cabinet or a consent agreement with PVV or Forum for Democracy is not in place for us, but we are looking for cooperation from SP and BET1 to JA21 as a VVD. If there's a minority cabinet in place, we'll have to see how we end up with majorities. In addition, you don't rule out parties in advance. So I don't see that point. By the way, the so-called right-wing majority... I've heard that say a lot. When it comes to making a free market economy work together with a sensible social policy and security policy, the VVD is the right-wing party in this Chamber. Then there are still parties to the right of the VVD who are on all kinds of other subjects on the right, but their socio-economic agenda I would like to point out, for example, the PVV. In fact, those parties are similar to the PVV. So as far as that so-called right-wing majority is concerned, you have to look at what subjects you see. I don't see it on all the subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u67	We've heard about that left-wing PVV from you before. But if you look at the asylum problem of the moment, I believe 21,000 people from Afghanistan have reported themselves; 40,000 e-mails have been received, so there is a lot going on. We know that, too. That is a constant problem in the Netherlands. Isn't this asylum issue just a part of taking a bite on the right? You say 'I'm not closing doors', but I understand that PvdA and GroenLinks, the new merger cartel, has now said that they do not want to work with a minority coalition. Doesn't that mean that you have to orientate yourself well on the right in order to be able to make deals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u68	Here is the adage of Angela Merkel: Schritt für Schritt; step by step. In my view, the first step now is to agree or disagree today on a motion on how we proceed. I filed a motion. We will see in a moment whether there is a majority in favour or not. Then there's gonna be conversations. We'll continue from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u69	In that context, step by step: elections. People are talking about it. The people are starting to stir about it. It seems as if more people are in favour of saying: let's go back to the ballot box; if things are so difficult, if things are not to be done, we may need a new result. How do you look at that, Mr. Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u70	I am not in favour of that. It would also be a failure on the part of all of us 150 here that we cannot have a viable government on the basis of the results of the elections. I would like to focus all my energy on getting that workable government, of course, regardless of whether it is a majority cabinet. In the meantime, the informant's observation is that this will be a minority cabinet. Whatever the form, that cabinet will naturally seek broad support in this Chamber, as I have always tried to do myself in the past nearly eleven years, and as I know many others in this Chamber have tried to do so. That was with the SP when it came to a number of issues concerning nitrogen, with GroenLinks and the Labour Party when it came to pensions. On other subjects, that was with parties on the right. That's how we do it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mrs van der Plas van BBB and then Mrs Ploumen van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u72	I heard Mr Rutte say: I have heard what Mrs Kaag has said; I find all sorts of things, but I am not going to ventilate it here. I actually taste that answer a little bit: you didn't like it very much. I can imagine. The question I would like to ask is: do you still trust each other enough to walk into the future together? I think that is a very essential question. I will ask Mrs Kaag the same question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u73	My plan wasn't to propose to Mrs Kaag. Besides, she's married, so that would cause all kinds of other problems. The plan is to see if we can achieve political cooperation. I think that we should all be able to do the utmost to achieve this, because it is in the interests of the Netherlands to eventually arrive at Cabinets that are able to count on fruitful cooperation here in the Chamber and, of course, to seek broader support than just a cabinet, regardless of whether it is a majority or a minority cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u74	That's not really an answer to my question. My question to Mr Rutte is: do you trust each other enough to go into the future? That's not a marriage between husband and wife, but it's a political marriage. It is important for the future of the Netherlands to know that. That answer may be 'yes, we trust each other' or 'I trust Mrs Kaag enough to do so'. Either the answer is "well, no, I don't know yet" or it's "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u75	No, the answer is yes. That goes for Jesse Klaver, for Lilianne Ploumen, for Gert-Jan Segers, for Wopke Hoekstra and also for yourself, Mrs Van der Plas. I trust you all. By the way, I also trust that we will not always agree. However, you and I may agree on a number of points, but the VVD and other parties will not always agree. That's what negotiations are for. There are two parties, of which I trust in myself the foremen, which I do not want to work with in a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u76	In conclusion, you trust Mrs Kaag enough to proceed with the cabinet negotiation and to form a cabinet together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u77	Yeah, but now we have to look at the content to see if we can do that. But we have to bridge together in this country; surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u78	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA and then to Mr Klaver of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u79	With Mr Rutte, many of my colleagues share, even if we follow another political ideology, that the given political situation is regrettable. It's almost six months after the election. The problems accumulate in the country. Solutions are not sought by this outgoing cabinet. Mr Rutte referred to the political situation that had arisen. Let me first say that it is a good thing to mention the animal by the name: what is the political situation that has arisen? That is that VVD and CDA have so far blocked substantive negotiations on a majority cabinet, which can count on broad support here in this Chamber, in the Upper Chamber and in society. Then there is my second point. The cabinet is outgoing and is on its hands, but in the meantime 1 million people live in poverty in the Netherlands. They haven't been able to expect anything from this cabinet for six months, nothing at all. But what is my surprise? That same cabinet is worth up to 2 billion for business. The cabinet may be outgoing, but the Chamber is just working. I hear the concerns of many colleagues about people who have to live in poverty in this cool country. I share those concerns. My question to Mr Rutte and later to all other colleagues is whether he can support my proposal to transfer the 2 billion, which is now going to business as a douche bag, to the wallet of households. Despite a positive trend in economic growth, households are on the zero line. So my question is very simple: can Mr Rutte support that proposal? Surely he would take a great step in what he himself wants, namely to solve problems for people in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u80	I agree to some extent with Mrs Hammer that the situation surrounding purchasing power, especially the purchasing power of people with the weakest...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u81	It's Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u82	Excuse me, Mrs Ploumen. When you talk about purchasing power, you talk about the SER and I think about Mrs. Hamer right away. Excuse me. To some extent, I agree with what Mrs Ploumen says about low-income people and the question of purchasing power. These are very real problems. The cabinet, of course, has also looked into this. We come up with proposals on Prince's Day on how we think we can improve purchasing power. We are also looking at the burden of business and the burden of people in the country. We must, of course, be aware, on a broad front, that in recent years the burden on industry has increased much more than on workers. We must also be careful that this does not affect the job-generating capacity of companies too much. At the same time, there is also a real question of purchasing power. I think we should then have that discussion in the General Political Reviews, I think, will continue. It's complicated for me to do that now, because I can't give access to the cabinet plans. However, the issue raised by Mrs Ploumen is a real one in itself. I think that's what we do in the plans that come out. If that's not enough, then that's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u83	As regards the General Political Reviews, they are still planned, but it is, of course, up to the House to decide whether that debate will continue. So far, however, I have had no signs that this debate is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u84	It doesn't seem complicated to me at all to give people a ruling on that today. In fact, that could have happened a lot sooner. I would remind Mr Rutte that people have been waiting for six months. His message to them is: "Indeed, we are blocking negotiations on a cabinet that can solve problems. Indeed, there is a solution available, but I am not cooperating on it now." So again my question: why is there not support for improving people's purchasing power? Why doesn't the 2 billion go to the wallets of all those Dutch people who have had a hard time in recent years? I very much hope that Mr Rutte will simply support this proposal instead of turning his back on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u85	Again, also for the viewers: this is really a point you should discuss with the General Reviews regarding detail, because then there are also the cabinet proposals. I cannot talk freely about the cabinet proposals here until the General Reviews take place, against the background of the documents published on Prinsjesdag. I can say that the issue of purchasing power is of course a subject which the cabinet is working on, and I can say here that I am sure that we will also come up with proposals to fix a negative purchasing power image. I'd like to say something about that. Our priority in the serious corona crisis was to preserve as many jobs as possible. Fortunately, that went pretty well. We currently have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and we currently have more vacancies than the number of unemployed people. The best improvement is, of course, job retention or helping people out of unemployment or benefit. That economic fact is there, thank goodness. That does not alter Mrs Ploumen's point, namely that there is still a question to be resolved about purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u86	Let me make it clear that I am addressing Mr Rutte here as a negotiator on behalf of his party, the VVD, who is blocking substantive negotiations and I am addressing him as a Member of Parliament, not as a outgoing Prime Minister who may or may not have access to cabinet documents. I ask him as foreman of the VVD if he can support my proposal to improve purchasing power and stop giving douche bags to business. That doesn't have much to do with cabinet plans. I'd like a verdict as foreman of the VVD. If he doesn't, we also know where he stands: do nothing for six months and leave the people empty-handed; they don't have to expect anything from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u87	This is rhetoric which I have not heard from Mrs Ploumen in any case, because of course what she is saying is not entirely right. First of all, tens of billions have been spent in the last few months to guide our business, our cafes and restaurants, our shopkeepers and all other entrepreneurs in the Netherlands through the corona crisis as best as possible, also to preserve those jobs. That has been achieved to a large extent, and I think that is good news. That's one. The second is that there is a serious problem with purchasing power. That's what you saw in the first figures that were published. Of course, we're gonna look at that, including me as a VVD. Also in another place, which I do not speak about now, we will of course do so, but also as a VVD we will look at this. That is where Mrs Ploumen and I will undoubtedly meet. Only then does she come to me with a point about the burden on business. Yes, that sounds very nice for the viewer at home, but the fact is that the burden on business in recent years has risen much faster than the burden on workers. You have to be careful not to let that go on indefinitely, because that also ultimately affects the ability of companies to create jobs in the future. And 70% of the Dutch work in small and medium-sized enterprises. Then there's another pick in the big companies and finally a quarter in the government. These jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises are all very dear to us, and I know that Mrs Ploumen is also very dear to us. She herself has a background in that direction. We need to make sure we don't do any damage there. So you have to do it all; it's en-and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr Klaver van GroenLinks and then Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u89	I listened carefully for almost 45 minutes to what Mark Rutte has put forward here and, to be honest, I have rarely heard such an incoherent argument from Mark. I am really concerned, because this debate and the report are not, as far as I am concerned, about whether it will be possible to form a cabinet with five parties or six parties. There's something much bigger at stake here. That is the Dutch tradition, which you also mentioned, to talk about the content. And now you dare to say it here with dry eyes, and I have written it down so that I can quote it literally: "We have to look from the content to see if it works. We must try to do the utmost." How dare you. We've been at it for five months. This summer, you and your colleagues from D66 wrote a substantive piece, with the promise in advance: we are going to see which parties would like to join it in terms of content and then we are going to talk to those parties in terms of content. That didn't happen. I have visited the informant many times, and we have had very entertaining conversations, including about the content, but we haven't even negotiated that content with you for a second. And now you're here with dry eyes saying that we should always do it from the point of view of content and try to do the utmost? You didn't do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u90	I do not quite understand this, because I think GroenLinks also excludes the PVV and does not first look at the content. The VVD also has that position. There are two things we need to establish. First of all, you don't need both sides for the majority. I do not think it is wise to form a cabinet in which there is a party that is not necessary for the majority. We have had this discussion endlessly at the table and we do not agree on that. I respect the choice of Labour Party and GroenLinks to say: we are not coming apart. I have to live with that. But then when you look at the content, you can see that there are huge differences, both between my party and GroenLinks and between my party and the Labour Party. Of course, that sum of things gets much bigger when those parties come together. It's on all kinds of themes. I mention the burden on entrepreneurs, which I was just talking to Mrs Ploumen about, stricter penalties, limiting migration, issues of investment in defence and development cooperation, Europe and investing in road infrastructure. These are all themes on which there are great differences, both between GroenLinks and VVD and between Party of Labour and VVD. I am ready to start discussions tomorrow if one of the two parties were to say: we are coming to the negotiating table. I know that won't happen. They made that clear to us, and I respect that. On the other hand, however, I would ask you to respect that I object to a cabinet in which both parties are present. Firstly, this is not necessary for the majority, and secondly, we know that there are major differences. In the Netherlands it is always the case that after elections we first examine which parties might be able to hold talks. And then you're gonna have those conversations, too. It's not like you're going to start talking with a random picking party in the Netherlands, then you're going to see which parties will form a cabinet together. We've never done it like that since 1945, and I don't think that's the right order. In the end, I agree with Mr Klaver that the content is leading, but you must first see if you are able to build a stable majority with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u91	So less than ten minutes ago, he says that there are six parties that should actually talk to each other about the government, in any form whatsoever, and now that is "a random pick of parties." And I would like to point out here that the Labour Party and GroenLinks have just been put on the same line as the PVV. Yes, that is indeed a party that we exclude from talking to, just like Forum, as the VVD does, because they do not respect the democratic rule of law. That is the only basis on which we exclude those parties in advance. I disagree with the VVD on about all points, but I have never ruled you out, as you have not done with us. Because of what you're doing right now, we're actually in some kind of election debate. You are still reading out all the differences between the electoral programmes of our parties. I know these programs well. The differences are extremely large. I don't even know if it would work to form a cabinet together, but I can't tell this Chamber or the people at home today that it's not gonna work. Do you know why not? We didn't negotiate. And if you say, "We're not going to talk to the PVV either, a random pick of parties" and if that's the way you're putting the PvdA and GroenLinks away now, then you're not working on a fruitful collaboration in any form whatsoever with the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u92	Now Mr Klaver is twisting my words or I have been unclear. On both points, I did not say what he now thinks I said. I didn't say I compared him to the PVV. No, what I said was that also Mr Klaver is not going to talk to the PVV in substance first to see if he could agree with that party. No, but with that I show that there is no question that you always start with the content. You also need to see if you can form a stable coalition with parties. So I'm not comparing him to the PVV. That would be nonsense, of course. That's point one. Point two, in this case, I am not talking about a pick of parties. Since the Second World War I have been talking about the Schermerhorn Cabinet, the Beel Cabinet, the Drees Cabinets and all the Cabinets afterwards, we have always done formations where we have looked at what parties are potentially capable of forming a cabinet with each other. Then the substantive discussions begin. For example, formations in the Netherlands are always designed. That's also for a good reason. That is my second point. So on both points, I would first like to take Mr Klaver out of his mind that I compare him with the PVV or that I say that it is a pick of parties. That's what I was referring to in history. Now to the situation itself, because Mr Klaver is also taking up his position. Of course, there are great differences between the VVD and GroenLinks. I'm not sure we can bridge that, either, but I think we could even do it if we tried very hard. And it would probably work with Mrs Ploumen, too. But it's also his choice, which I respect, to say: we're only coming. That's a choice, isn't it? It is not true that it is a data given by the Almighty, that these two parties must come together for negotiating talks? That's their choice. I respect them, but I can relate to them as well. And I don't think it's wise to sit in a cabinet together with those two parties. That is what I put forward in the formation talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u93	First we get a tear-making story, namely that we have been in this for five months and that there is a huge impasse. And now we hear: with GroenLinks we would come out and with the Labour Party we would, but the combination of those two, seventeen whole seats, is so incredibly scary that we are not going to do that. Mr. Rutte, you're refusing to explore an option here that could lead to a majority cabinet. You refuse to do so, just because you do not like two parties working together, having a common commitment and finding the same on all these issues. To be perfectly honest, I find that out of order. It is reprehensible, because it does not fit in with the Dutch tradition in which you will at least talk to each other. That's your choice. You have made it very clear that you do not want that. I don't think it fits the Dutch tradition. What we are doing now with the Netherlands, I also find irresponsible. After such a long time, there is no missionary cabinet. All problems accumulate: people are waiting for medical treatment and tens of thousands of people are looking for an affordable home, but cannot find it. And we're just doing reviews of speeches from colleagues here and wondering if they want two parties or three. Stop this! It's very easy to get out of here. We don't need a magic president of the ESC or a magical Johan Remkes. It has to do with the political courage of all of us to say: I do not agree with you, but twisted, I'm going to try to get out. As long as we do not have that courage together here, I will see us here in the House of Representatives in six months' time at exactly the same debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u94	That is a curious argument. Why is it a curious argument? That is because Mr Klaver is now out of the discussion. When I say that I myself feel the greatest responsibility, it is because the VVD did indeed have the best result. But the VVD did not achieve an absolute majority; far from it! It is therefore a responsibility of all of us, especially in the broad political context, to see how we can get out of this. It is Mr Klaver's choice, which I respect, to say: we only come together. There's nothing I can do about it. It's up to him to do that. That is also a political choice. He's acting like it's a given. I said, also in the conversations, that we have difficulty with that. That is one of the reasons why it is difficult, just like when Mrs Kaag says: I do not want to form a cabinet with the Christian Union in it. Different situations have arisen in the formation. As a result, the situation is as it is. As far as I'm concerned, we'll be looking to see if it's possible to form a minority cabinet. But of course it is not the case that Mr Klaver has been some sort of observer of the process over the past few months. He was there himself and also took positions in it. He has a responsibility for it, too. Smaller than me, because his party is smaller, but he too has a responsibility for it. He can't walk away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u95	Finally. For a historian, Mr Rutte really has an extremely short memory. As a Chamber, we have hired Mr Herman Tjeenk Willink to help us out of a huge impasse. He had thought: you know what, we're going to try it through the lines of content. That's what we all said here in choir, including Mark Rutte: we're going to try through the content. Then an attempt is made and he comes back to a promise he made before the summer to try through the content. Mr. Rutte, it is your right to say: I am not going with those, with those... types of the PvdA or with those types of GroenLinks. That's your very good right. But in a formation, you try to take logical steps. As a logical step, you agreed to see if you could make it through the content, but then you say: well, that content might work, but I don't like the parties. That's exactly why this formation is now stuck. You can say that we are all responsible for that, but no, you are responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u96	No, that's bullshit. I respect Mr Klaver's view on this point, but I fundamentally disagree with that. It's a joint responsibility. He could also have chosen to enter the conversations, but it is always a mix of the composition of the cabinet and the content. It's content and composition. He chose to say: I come only with the Labour Party. Again, I respect that. But that is also a fact to which we had to relate. Of course, it's not like he's standing there with clean hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr Wilders would like to comment on this part of the debate, so I would like to ask Mrs Ouwehand if he can go ahead. It's okay. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u98	I'm a little full of both gentlemen talking about the PVV and pretending we're some kind of leper party. I would just like to point out that the PVV is making great proposals, which are not contrary to the rule of law, to change laws and the Constitution. No one but MPs can do this. And yes, we are not GroenLinks. We're not a Labour Party either. We are as big as the Labour Party and GroenLinks together. I say to Mr Rutte: we do not want open borders. We don't want to bring everyone here. We do not want to spend 7 billion on climate policy. You want to be in the sea with them, while we're bigger than them together. They're destroying the country on the left. You can go right, but you won't. That's the conclusion. Then don't tell me we're a leper. You're acting wrong. You do not choose our party, while we are a thousand times closer to the VVD than GroenLinks and the Labour Party together on points such as immigration. What kind of talk do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr Wilders is certainly not a leper, but there is a very big problem with his party, so I do not want to cooperate with him. The VVD doesn't either. Not in 2017, and we also said it in the 2021 elections. This has to do with two major issues: firstly, a number of fundamental freedoms in the country, including freedom of religion. Mr Wilders regards Islam as a political system and wants to close mosques. We can't relate to that. The second is that if a coalition is to be established in the Netherlands, it is necessary that you do not run away when it becomes difficult. Mr Wilders did so when it became difficult. That is why we are no longer confident that it will be possible to achieve structural cooperation with him. This does not mean that we cannot vote for each other's motions here in the Chamber and all that sort of thing, but we are not going to do any more cooperation in a coalition or an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u100	Tommy Wieringa wrote last Saturday in the NRC about the formation and where we stand after three Cabinets-Rutte. Three and a half, I must say. The conclusion was: so much power and influence, and so little sense of responsibility. That's exactly the picture that lingers today. The breakthrough that is needed is not: can we get a little controllable land so that the VVD can again exercise its power policy. The breakthrough that is needed is that we finally get a government that Dutch people can trust and respect the rule of law. Mr Rutte is actually telling us with dry eyes that he is going to stretch it a little bit. There won't be a cabinet for a while. That this cabinet formation now lasts five months, he presents again as a kind of natural phenomenon, as we know it from him. "It happened," as if he wasn't responsible for that himself. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask a question about the interim period. Because it seems that Rutte wants to be the longest-standing outgoing Prime Minister of the Netherlands. We all knew he wanted to be the longest-serving Prime Minister, but apparently it is still on his political bucket list. If this lasts and lasts and lasts, what happens when the obligations imposed by the rule of law are fulfilled? Does Mr Rutte agree with the Animal Party that, even if you are a outgoing government, you cannot say "we will simply eliminate the rule of law for a moment"? And what does that mean for climate policy, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u101	First something about the past few years, because it's quite a reproach. I am very proud of what we have achieved together in the Netherlands. At that time, I was proud to be in charge of the cabinet. I certainly didn't do that myself; we did that with 17 million people. We have come out of one of the biggest economic recessions and we are currently one of the best performing economies in the Western world. Our prestige in the world is good. We are well on the map in many countries, including Europe. I'm proud of that, too. I'm proud of what we've achieved. This financial and economic starting position will enable us to solve a number of very important issues in the coming years, around the housing market, nitrogen, climate and education, but also about security and defence. These are issues that we need to address, given the situation in the world and the instability around us. I'd almost say we live in a cool country. I would like to repeat that here. Now on the rule of law. That rule of law is not negotiable, for no one here, certainly not for me, nor for Mrs Ouwehand. It's not negotiable for anyone. A outgoing cabinet, too, naturally has to relate to court rulings and must try to deal with them as best as possible. Then there is the much broader issue of climate policy. There are a number of huge opportunities in the coming years. I mean opportunities to close the gap to 49% by 2030, to make sure that we in Europe are leading the debate on the 55% target, including in 2030, and that we are moving towards climate-neutral by 2050, so that in the years to come, not only will Urgenda speak out loud, but we can also build together the green hydrogen economy that is needed to keep the biggest polluters in this country and not let them leave and pollute them somewhere and take those jobs. All these things we can do with each other. Then we can also solve the problem of nitrogen. These are the major issues that the upcoming cabinet needs to address, in addition to security, defence, education and the housing market. I am incredibly motivated to do that. This will be one of the largest renovations in the Netherlands that we had after the war. I look forward to that, of course, looking for broad support in the Chamber, should I be allowed to continue as Prime Minister. That is certainly not a given; we can also end up in the opposition. But if that were the case, I'd do it heartily.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u102	The Prime Minister, Prime Minister, but now for a moment the leader of the VVD, Bíjna would say that it is a cool country. Well, that's a step forward, because the Netherlands doesn't look that good at all. We dangle at the bottom of the lists with the transition to green energy and achieving the climate goals. I'd like hob or calf. Mr Rutte says here, and I am glad that he at least says it, that even if you are a deportationist, you cannot ignore the rule of law. Then why does he say so between the nose and the lips: to the Urgenda-pronunciations do we have to "as best we can"? There's just a hell of a court sentence. There is a new procedure, because the Rutte Cabinets refused to meet the minimum climate targets. I stress this because it is scandalous that a social organisation should go to court for this. That judge has been very clear. The cabinet violates human rights. People have a right to be protected from dangerous climate change. Mr Rutte says here 'yes, the rule of law is very important, but you only have to do Urgenda as best you can', rather than 'we should be ashamed that we didn't make it and this year, this year, we are doing everything we can to comply with that judgment'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u103	Firstly, the rule of law is not negotiable. I think we can agree on that. Secondly, I myself had very pleasant conversations with Mrs Minnesma, the name behind Urgenda, both on short-term issues and, what she calls, the moon-shot projects, the "Woman on the Moon" projects for 2030 and beyond. In those talks we had a very large degree of agreement on how we think we should take on a number of things in the Netherlands. This cabinet, of these four parties, feels very obliged to carry out the Urgenda ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u104	But these pleasant conversations with Mrs Minnesma have led to Mrs Minnesma's conclusion: this is not going well again, so I have to go to court again. I would like to remind Mr Rutte that the VVD and the CDA have a similar subscription to the judge's destructive judgments, as well as CDA-kabinets. They can hang their chambers with destructive statements from the Council of State. Now just say "I've had coffee with her and we have every confidence that we're going to do that right," is not enough. This is more of the same, continuing the same scandalous, destructive policy. This ensures that, if at some point there is a government in which the Netherlands can trust and which will do what is needed, there is an incredible amount of debris to clean up. We can see that already in the nitrogen crisis. I find it impossible for the largest party in the Netherlands to maintain this with Mr Rutte's figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u105	How Mrs Ouwehand can derive this from my answer is a mystery to me. Really. There's no link between answer and her response. I can't find it either. May I thank the Chamber very much for the attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mr. Rutte. We'll clean up and then I'll give the floor to Mrs Kaag of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. Almost six months ago, the Netherlands went to the ballot box. Unfortunately, despite all the content and personal efforts of informant Hammer, her drive and also her drive for joy, there is still no insight into a new cabinet. I would like to thank her on behalf of D66 for everything she has done and, of course, for the patience she has shown. I share Mr Rutte's words, and I think many others, that it is regrettable that it has not been possible to form a stable coalition. I feel responsible for that, too. Since the elections, I have been working with my D66 colleagues for a broad-based and stable cabinet. From D66 ideas, this is a cabinet that is as progressive as possible, that tackles the increasing inequality of opportunity, the climate crisis and the housing shortage. A cabinet that ensures that people can be free and that necessary choices do not go out of the way. The main document that D66 wrote with VVD, or VVD with D66, shows that there is support for a substantive agenda of such a cabinet. It also provided energy and was completed in good cooperation. There are great ambitions in the field of education, including with a rich school day, on free childcare, on a higher climate objective and on a firm approach to racism and discrimination, with new steps in the field of personal freedoms and also with special texts on the new governance culture. We have shown that the known contradictions between our parties can be bridged. This is needed in a fragmented political landscape. Mr President, I have two more points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u108	It's important that you finish your story. Then Mr. Wilders comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u109	After a dashing start of this formation we tried to get together through the content. In the eyes of D66, PvdA and GroenLinks have taken the courageous step to work closely together. They also responded positively to the building blocks for a coalition agreement. For me, that remains a good starting point to talk about. But the question is how to proceed. As I mentioned earlier, it is up to all parties, including D66, to work on the major repair. Mutual blockades, sometimes substantive, sometimes not, have not brought a cabinet any closer. For me, it is up to the six parties to come to a joint solution. The largest party, as also appointed by Mr Rutte, has a special role to play. With the document on the main lines, there is a good basis for a coalition agreement. But whether there is a majority or a minority coalition, this coalition will always need constructive support from the broad political centre. I therefore hope that it will be possible to bridge the differences between conservative and progressive parties and to form a stable coalition with broad support from the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u110	Thank you. I shall then give the floor first to Mr Wilders, then to Mrs Marijnissen and then to Mr Azarkan. And then to Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u111	I wonder what kind of charade we ended up in here. Mrs Kaag also does not mention yesterday's speech. It's unbelievable. You gave a rather frank speech yesterday, Mrs Kaag. I would like to begin by thanking you for that. The speech said something about your own character and your ideas about Rutte. As for your own character, it said that you are a bit of a loosely sung radical, that you have never really been able to earth in the Netherlands. That's what you're saying. You've been singing a little loose from politics. But it also said that you feel exalted above the common people. You actually feel too good for politics and you are also very vile in character. That's also something from your speech... you're actually a bit of a mean person, if you read the speech correctly. It's okay. We may all be, but that's a bit of your character. You also told us what you think of Mr Rutte. I have already said this to Mr Rutte himself. You said, in your own words, that he is actually unreliable, or that he should at least work for reliability. In your opinion, he should also work on humanity. Actually, he's also inhuman. He should have quit in April, as you said. He's a hustler, you said. I should like to ask you the following question. When it comes to you towards Mr Rutte, you have issued that cannonade, there is enough sense and confidence from you to continue with Mr Rutte, or is that more under the motto 'if I can negotiate with the Taliban, then it can also be with Rutte'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u112	Well, that was a lot of words, but of course I am used to that from Mr Wilders. Maybe a few things. I had a nice lecture in the Red Hat yesterday. It lasted 45 minutes. It was about 44 minutes of content, a vision. I was talking about an approach to the climate crisis. I have spoken about inequality of opportunity in the Netherlands, about Europe, about the danger of nationalism, about what this means and about patriotism. I also talked about leadership, about how I experience it. I have talked about what we all have to do. I have named in particular how we should all embody a new culture of governance and political culture in the Netherlands. I've been saying this for 1.5 years. I'll say it in speeches. I can't blame Mr Wilders for not reading all my speeches, but I say it inside and outside. I'll tell the informant. I'll say it at all meetings. I've actually been saying it for years. So it's about everyone. I'm putting this on myself, too. It's important that we work on that. We all have to break through that. I think that's what a lot of people want. That is why I mentioned in particular the time and attention D66 and VVD have spent together, also bearing in mind the Ploumen/Klaver motion, on the new administrative culture. Yeah, I think vision is important. Yeah, I'm not much of a coffee drinker. And yes, I stand for a business approach. Well, that says something about me. Well, I take all your comments for granted. I'm not gonna wear it as a name, but all of your character notes are all your words. That's fine, but I'm going for a business approach and for the responsibility we have to take as D66. I sincerely hope that you may have done it again, because I expected many people to ask me about migration or about nationalism, or, for example, about inequality of opportunity: what is the situation in the Netherlands? But I'm afraid that didn't happen. Maybe it's still possible, because you're actually doing a little PR for a speech; normally it doesn't get such headlines. The content is quite worth reading, although I say it myself, thanks to the writers of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u113	Perhaps now you can answer my question. Do you still trust Mr Rutte enough to negotiate with him, or is it more: if I can negotiate with the Taliban, can it be with Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u114	I think it is inappropriate to compare anyone in this Parliament with the Taliban. This is a matter of international negotiation and agreement. The first is, of course, a matter of continuing. The VVD, Mr Rutte, and I have had a pleasant, good cooperation along the lines of the content. I have already said in an earlier debate that I honestly trust very few people in life. I trust my husband, my own family and some friends. I'm going on business agreements that we want to perform properly with each other. It is less a matter of trust; it is about good, clear frameworks for implementation. In the best of confidence, you can still disappoint each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u115	That's a clear answer. The answer is that you do not say that you trust Mr Rutte. You say with all good words that it is a matter of pettyness. But my question was: do you trust Mr Rutte? Your answer is not that you trust Mr Rutte. I therefore assume that you do not trust Mr Rutte. That also makes sense, because in the debate we had on 1 April, you and your colleague from the CDA have already tabled a motion of censure. Then I asked you, what does that political motion of yours mean? Then you replied, you can read it in the Acts not only 'here separate our ways', but also 'if it were me, I would have honored myself'. You said to Mr Rutte in April: if I had had that motion, I would have honored myself. Now Mr Rutte has done a great deal to get into the right book with you. Madam President, I do not want to talk about you, but you owe it to your position. Mr Rutte then signed your election programme and those building blocks during those negotiations. He just didn't do one thing. That's that he didn't give you your will by going along with GroenLinks and the Labour Party. That's what I mean by character. You've had your way with everything. But you didn't get that. From that near-hate to Rutte, because you didn't get your way, you thought as a kind of spoiled political nest: I will teach him; during that speech for Elsevier on Monday evening I will teach him the lesson. You did. You've been abusing him politically. You kicked his ass. I don't understand why Mr. Rutte is sitting here playing so quietly on his phone. Mr. Rutte, why are you playing on your phone? She offended you to the bone. People at home are annoyed that you're playing on your phone all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr. Wilders, would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mrs Kaag has offended Mr Rutte, who is playing on his phone, to the bone. You don't get what you want. That's why you did it. This is not only about bad character, but that also shows that you are totally unable to control the Netherlands together with Rutte. You are unable to manage the Netherlands together. There's almost hatred between the two of you. At least there's no trust between the two of you. I ask you, both content and politics, to do the following. Do you agree with me that the Netherlands deserves a cabinet, whoever is in it, in which the leaders of the two largest parties do not treat each other so childishly and hatefully, in which they at least trust each other politically to be able to go on with each other and that you, with Rutte, are totally, but totally unsuitable for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u118	You know, all Mr Wilders' words are to Mr Wilders. I don't share a single word of that. The good thing is that I do not hear Mr Wilders talking about the content of the document. There are strong elements of the VVD, in terms of security and liberal values, but also in terms of education. D66 also recognizes itself in the piece. That was for us at some point a taste of a coalition agreement. But I think there are a lot of interesting ideas for both sides. If you had read the speech, you would have seen that I was talking about moderation, compromise and seeking solutions together. It's always gonna be. It is about content and a new political culture. In all your other words, I can't do that much. As I said before, I have said openly and transparently, systematically and consistently, inside and outside the Chambers how I look at the political culture in The Hague. I'm in there myself. I'd like to change it myself. So I'm gonna put it on myself and everyone else. The fact that you're so anxious to reduce that to one person and one moment is up to you. I'm just not playing that game.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u119	You no longer have any interruptions, Mr Wilders, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan. We've made an equal division. The same goes for you, Mr. Wilders. You are also long in your interruptions... No, no, no, we're not gonna do this. I'm a neutral chairman. You can't hear what you're saying either, because it's happening outside the microphone. It is a pity that you say this, but we agreed that everyone has the same number of interruptions. I would also like to keep an eye on this: everyone in this Chamber has equal opportunities. Thank you. Then Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u120	I also wonder where I ended up. I have the idea that it is a kind of political "keeping up appearances"; a kind of clean appearance. I read the lecture well. There are very nice elements in it. Compliments for that. Between these beautiful themes and that vision of the Netherlands and realizing it is someone who puts Mrs Kaag away as visionless, as a manager. As someone who sees politics as a goal and not as a means. I also had the impression that Mrs Kaag did not move to the Netherlands a few months ago, but she and Mr Rutte had been making choices and forming the cabinet together for about four years. Now she writes herself: I may have been a little naive. Were you surprised at Mr Rutte's performance and behaviour in the formation so far, I ask through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u121	Well, one's own identity goes much wider, of course. As I said before, since my return, I have spoken at various times in different speeches about what I think the importance of vision is, why I think it is important to have a long-term agenda and how I look at political developments, strubblings and behavior. So it's not about one person. It's about me and it's about all of us. If we really want that change, it will have to come from the Chamber. For example, there has been a lot of talk about incident policy in the context of the premium case; how decisions are taken and legislation is adopted on the basis of incidents. You know that much better than I do. All this is also a reflection of the prevailing political culture. He plays too much on the man or the woman and is too little about the case you want to achieve. That's what I'm talking about. That may be naive or expectant. I'm sticking to the content, and I'm in favour of business appointments. Indeed, I have very little with the cups of coffee drinking. A number of people here know that for sure. Investing in a relationship is good, but I'd rather have a business investment, clarity about agreements and mutual commitment about how you're going to do that. In this cabinet we have not been able to deliver enough of our promises. That's what I dedicate to myself and the D66 narrow part. That's what we're doing, and it's just the way it is. You can call that naive, but we didn't do it well or good enough. That's a fact. I want to work on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u122	But at least you need a partner who supports that vision to some extent? You don't need someone who is acting as the manager of the Netherlands, wants to keep the power, has been doing it for ten years and if there are problems with the supplement scandal, is managing their own image or the position of directors. You need someone who really cares about those parents, and I get that. I say to you through the chairman: you were wrong for four years. You've seen Mr. Rutte operate. Mrs Kaag concluded that Mr Rutte had a pattern of forgetfulness when it suits him. She had indicated that he had to improve and regain trust. I think it's a bit of a victim play to say, "It all didn't work out. I was going to do it right. I had the idea to talk to the parties who share progressive values with me, but there was another one who didn't really want to. But I'll go further." My question to Mrs Kaag is: what did you expect Mr Rutte to do differently and what will happen in that formation in the future? Otherwise we can do this game ten more times, but then we will have the next election by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u123	First of all, D66 is not a victim. I take responsibility and I put the finger on ourselves. We were at what we haven't been able to achieve. I think it is a sign of a good political culture that we keep looking at ourselves. You have to be your own hardest critic. The second is that the cabinet has resigned. I don't think we should repeat the rounds of the terrible surcharge affair here. I expect to be talked along the lines of content and we all commit to a new governance culture. That will require a great deal from everyone, individuals and parties. That's a real turn of events.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u124	Your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yeah, finally. I've asked here a number of times. I blamed Mrs Kaag for embracing Rutte again, taking him away and making him Prime Minister again and saddled the Netherlands with another four years of Rutte. Of course, there's not going to be any work on that governance culture. Does Mrs Kaag trust that Mr Rutte shows what she means by that new governance culture, those progressive values and what she wants to achieve in the story she held yesterday? Does she have the confidence in this leader of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u126	I think the lines of content delivered by VVD and D66 together are a first fine example of that, but everything is about what you do with it and how we do it afterwards. That's not hanged on one person. That is why we have never supported the motion of censure, because then you would have made one person, one individual, guilty or guilty of all that is there. Of course it isn't. Parties are in parliament. So are we. We were also in the cabinet. This is a shared responsibility, so also shared responsibility. I'm less concerned with trust. I am concerned about the content, the arrangements and business cooperation. I think that's important. That makes me, I think, different. That's not better; I hope it's not worse either. It's different. That's my way of doing things. I'll bet on that. I have the confidence of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mrs. Marijnissen. Mr Rutte has something to say. Can I get him out front? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr Wilders clearly called to you for this part of the Chamber: corruption. This was apparently the result of the President's election. Geert, I understand very well that you can be incredibly angry from time to time. Everyone does, but this is an outburst of anger. It'd be fancy if you straightened it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mark. I was telling the truth. I'm not taking back a word of it. It happened that, if we were to tutoy each other, on the morning of the election, or at least had a phone call with Kaag, a President suddenly came forward as a devil-out-of-a-box and that you were going to support them as a VVD in one go. That wouldn't have happened otherwise. There would have been other candidates. This isn't just corruption. This stinks from all sides. I'm not taking back a word of it. You're responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr Rutte, finally. I think we should stop talking about the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u131	Yeah, we'll make it quick. Mr. Wilders here uses the word "corruption." I don't think it's fancy he's not taking it back. In the debate on the President's election, we discussed exactly how that all happened. This term is totally inappropriate in an open election of the President of the Chamber. I say here as foreman of the greatest party: I reject this. I think it's very weak that if someone in a rage burst says something that can't... That could happen sometime. I'm also known for sometimes being a little cranky, but I've learned that after that you straighten it out and say, "I'm sorry, I didn't mean to. You could have done that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u132	I suggest that we stop talking about the position of the President. I would like to give you the opportunity to respond very briefly to this and then to move on to the debate on the formation. I think that's more interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u133	I'm definitely gonna respond to it. I stand for every word I've said, Mr. Rutte, Mark. There are arrangements made behind the scenes by you, Mr. Rutte, with Mrs. Kaag. There's been a deal. There have been calls and meetings. You've agreed with each other that it was a D66 candidate. If you deny that, it's not only corrupt, but you're also a huge liar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u134	I fully agree with what Mr Rutte said. It's not just inappropriate. It is a false accusation without any ground and without any legal basis. I find it very inappropriate. It's easy. We see it on Twitter very often, but to use words like this in this Parliament and, in fact, implicitly to remove the role of the President of the Chamber as someone who has come to power by supposedly corrupt means, I find it very disgusting. What you're saying is far from the truth. Mr. Wilders, the difference is that if you know the truth, you sleep well at night. I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u135	So much for the schoolyard debate between Geert and Mark, which allowed us all to be spectators. I have a question for Mrs Kaag. This is about her speech, which I think is the Dutch word for "speech" yesterday, because it raises a lot of questions and above all the question: is the whole of the Netherlands crazy? Are all the papers crazy that reported about that this morning? Are all the TV shows crazy that analyzed that last night and this morning? You are talking about "the solution for the country is not in management." You even use the words "cool land." I think we only have one person in this Parliament who just said the words 'cool country' again. Is it weird that the whole of the Netherlands thinks that you refer to Mr Rutte in that speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u136	I do not know if Mrs Marijnissen read the speech. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u137	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u138	Well, very good. It is true that a 'cool country' is, of course, a popular expression of the Prime Minister, but I do not think it is the only one. For me, it's an expression from years ago. It is much more important that the motion on the culture of administration and the content of the document gives a very broad expression of what we need to do: a different political culture. The great challenges of this time require leadership and choices, and also ask to be probably unpopular and still try to convince. We all have to do that. You might like to talk about one person. I see this as an assignment for everyone to do so in their own way. Maybe I can read something, too, from my own work, apparently. "For me, leadership with self-confidence is to promote and defend your values. Strongly promote your views, gain support for your ideals and be open about your considerations. Look beyond political preservation and subjugate yourself and your party to the public interest." There have been two parties here who have written a taste of a government agreement in a very difficult impasse. There are a number of parties that have stayed along the sidelines. That could have been a choice of leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u139	I find it quite extraordinary to quote here again from their own work, from their own speech yesterday. I think I have already indicated that I have listened to it, otherwise I would not ask you today, because that is the least you can do. But to my question if it is so strange that everyone thinks all the newspapers, all the TV shows and in my opinion all the Dutch that it was about the Mark Rutte, doesn't really come up with an answer. Mrs Kaag says that she often says that it is about the great challenges for the future, along the lines of content, and that leadership is needed. She even quotes from her own work. I saw that in the written version "leadership" is even written with a capital L by Mrs Kaag. I do wonder: how do you feel about that new leadership you advocated? We have been looking at a formation six months after the elections which, if we can believe Mrs Hammer, is not even about the content, while Mrs Kaag was arguing over and over again that we are going to do something really different: a different administrative culture, along the lines of the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u140	When we look at the timeline, everyone naturally finds it regrettable. If we look at the content, as D66 leader, I am satisfied with the framework that exists. Should leadership be measured every day? No, it's what we leave behind. But we have made an effort throughout the period, including from 1 April, in difficult times and at other times. Is everything perfect? Far from it! Can we do better? Should I do better? Always! But then, of course, the question again is to everyone who represents a party here what the contribution has been made. 'Cause there's a good piece. I would have liked to have heard many more reactions to the content of this document. Can the parties agree to this? We know that PvdA and GroenLinks have responded with a certain degree of enthusiasm. CDA saw a number of problems, but also saw valuable elements. Mr Segers has made improvements, as Mrs Hammer's report also shows, but also very critical elements. There are therefore several parties who have submitted their comments and contributions in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u141	Your last interruption, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mrs. Kaag does make it very furious. In fact, she is giving a sneak to the Chamber so I take it for granted after too little reaction to the content of the piece. That is what I will tell you, Mrs Kaag, because nobody here in the Chamber knows exactly what the value of that piece is. That is completely unclear, unless you say that question here today, I would also like to ask you that you are therefore going for a minority cabinet, together with the VVD, and that this is the piece. Then you can certainly expect a substantive response from us. But today, as we stand here, we don't know anything. You can come with a piece. We can find all kinds of things, but no one knows what the value of that piece is, because it is up to you, because it is on the VVD and because you have been working on a so-called administrative culture along the lines of content for six months since the elections. We've heard about new leadership, we've heard about Mark Rutte's radical ideas about the new governance culture, and it's just not gonna work out at all. To be honest, I do not think it is appropriate for us to be here. I do not know exactly who you are talking to; at least I think I am taking the measure that there will be no substantive reaction to that piece. We've been waiting for that play for months. We have asked many times, of: gee, wouldn't it also be a good idea in the context of the new governance culture to make that public? Well, that's it for a few days. You gave a speech yesterday. Since then, no one knows what he's up to. So my question is: should we understand these statements in such a way that you are going for a minority cabinet together with the VVD and is this document indeed the test of the coalition agreement we are talking about? Then it would be nice to clarify that. If that is not the case, I would like to hear from you what you need from Mr Rutte, in concrete terms, in order to have the confidence that this will lead to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u143	The first is, of course, that this was written as a "set-up to a start," as I myself have vaguely called it. Well, I won't repeat that. They are building blocks for a possible coalition agreement. Both parties have worked very hard on the content. Some call it a recognizable part of one or the other's election programme. At least I think there's a beautiful, valuable piece. On the basis of Mrs Hammer's report, suggestions are made. But we're not ready yet. As far as D66 is concerned, all variants are on the table, minority and majority. A minority variant, as I mentioned in my brief introduction, will also need broad support for constructive cooperation. So I understand Mrs Marijnissen's question, but we would like to look from the six. We trust, should he be appointed an informant, Mr. Remkes. We support the motion that will be tabled to that effect. I just haven't given any assurance yet either; that's what I'm going to discuss with Mr Remkes in due course about the outcome and nature of the participation of D66. So I'm also not able to tell you now what the nature of the piece is. It's right there. I hope it's done well. We may be in on it, perhaps not. That depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u144	There are some interruptions. Firstly, Mr Segers of the Christian Union, then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA, Mrs Van der Plas of BBB, Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy, Mr Eerdmans of JA21 and, of course, Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals. But first of all, Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u145	We're not eating for a while, I understand. We're just in the middle of something. I too have a question, first of all, about what Mrs Kaag and Mr Rutte wrote together in the paper on open politics, more debate and dualism. It says: "We open the debate and seek cooperation with the parties who want to take responsibility. We offer room for political differences, even if they become visible in terms of their content." In yesterday's lecture, Mrs Kaag quoted the words of the black activist Pauli Murray, who would later become the first black female priest in her church: "If my brothers draw a circle to shut me out, I will draw a larger circle to enclose them." Two pages before that, I read how that translates politically. There Mrs Kaag says that she sees great differences between liberal parties and confessional parties. And she says: that Gert-Jan Segers has a delicate soul; we cannot ask them over. People get locked out after all. If we let go a little bit of exegesis on the criticism of a governance style, many people cannot escape the impression that she also has certain people in mind. So I don't really understand how those fine words about inside, working together and openness relate to the very sharp political choices here and there, which also draw dividing lines, for example between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u146	That circle drawing is about society. That's about how we relate to each other. I could, so to speak, draw another big circle to get Mr Wilders into the tent, but I do not think that is going to happen. That would also frighten Mr Wilders. But more important is what you ask. As you know from Mrs Hammer's report, we have mentioned a great many variants. When I hear your question, there are also very specific variants in which the Christian Union is an option for us. But from the beginning of the period you yourself have also appointed great and increasing hesitations. You yourself said that it was not reason enough. There have been elections and it is D66's intention to do justice to the vote given to us by the electorate. This is about broader issues than just medical ethics or individual freedoms. It is also about Europe, the slow approach to the problem of nitrogen or the Urgendavonnis. We have always sought this circle, that partnership, in a coalition as progressive and stable as possible, but not one of the same composition, because we expect that we will not be able to tackle the challenges we want to tackle with fresh impetus. That's a choice. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u147	That's a choice. That's a legitimate choice. It's okay. You can say: we do not want to negotiate with the Christian Union. That is just legitimate, but I find it so difficult to reconcile it with those high words about closing in, cooperation and an open debate with all the parties responsible. Then it is one thing to say: it is very complicated with the Christian Union. I see possibilities. I've never blocked things. I have always said that we do not want to be the last blockade. So if there's really no other way, we're willing to talk. But when it comes to a minority cabinet, objections are raised towards the CDA or at least towards that combination. Then I think: this does not end; this process and this attitude are not fruitful and countries are not in a political cooperation that you applaud, which you adjure, which you advocate. Then I think: how the hell can we land somewhere where we will work together if this is the attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u148	Those are choices. That's one. The second is that in Mrs Hammer's report, D66 has clearly proposed two variants which include both CDA and Christian Union, but for us this is not necessarily a combination if we look back on the experience of this cabinet period, the voter's vote, our will to do justice to the results we experience and the choices we want to make. It is our right to speak to the informant in this way, just as you have other preferences. I say again today that it is important for us to speak from the six, from the broad cooperation. But there are many more parties in this parliament. That is also rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u149	Finally, I heard Mrs Kaag's predecessor, Mr Pechtold, tell Buitenhof that everyone had to move and that we had to come out of the shooter's pits and jump over our shadows. If asked, "who should do that?', Mark Rutte had to do that. If it jumps over your shadow and comes out of shooter pits mainly involves others, and not yourself, then we won't get anywhere. We're gonna have to get to that partnership. We want to be constructive, even if D66 says: we do not want to negotiate with the Christian Union. Again, that's legitimate. We are going to discuss the differences in content. We shall begin the substantive debate. Because those differences are indeed very large. But I do call heartily for, as we are in the midst of this political misery, let's call it what it is, that call to get out of those shooter pits and jump over your shadow not only to involve others, but also yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u150	You are talking about Mr Pechtold. Mr Pechtold spoke on behalf of Alexander Pechtold, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr Pechtold spoke on behalf of Mr Pechtold. I know that D66 is the party of individual freedom, but often there is also something of a coherent vision in a party. Anyway, maybe we should have some coffee. My question does address the same issue of exclusion. I've been browsing through your pieces, and I'm actually noticing that D66 is gradually applying for the exclusion championship. The PVV was already out of the picture. After that, FVD was mentioned. There are major questions about the SP. For JA21 there were obstacles first, later they were also excluded. The Christian Union is now practically also excluded in the final phase. How does sermons on inclusion relate to practicing exclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u152	Inclusion is also what is also mentioned in the speech "Being in conversation with each other in the first place." That doesn't mean you're gonna end up at the same club. That's one. The second is that we are not blocking the Christian Union. We do not want the present cabinet to continue. We have said this from the beginning, because we do not think that we can make the progress we would like to make in this way. Everyone else has a different opinion on this. We have mentioned the Christian Union in many variations, but the only variant we have not mentioned is the continuation of the present cabinet. Blocks have been created, also by other parties, who do not want to cooperate with both GroenLinks and the PvdA. I think it is legitimate that I have been transparent and consistent about the use of D66 from the outset. As a side path, but an important step in terms of content, we started working with the VVD along the lines of content. We saw this as a test for a coalition agreement if we were to continue ourselves. But a great deal of room has been left for all kinds of parties, if they want to join, precisely to bring in their accents, but also, of course, to amend where necessary. If you look at Mrs Hammer's report, you will see a lot of options that have been proposed to us and which, for all kinds of reasons, could not. So I am very pleased that you are referring to the speech, but I think it is even more important to look at all the options put forward by D66. Frankly, you should not be surprised that we will never get involved with the PVV or Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u153	It continues to intrigue me what exactly in the vision of D66 are the conditions under which the conversation with parties can be sought. I haven't gotten any precise clarity about it yet, but maybe we'll find out later. I have one other question, a very earthly one, about the vision of coffee drinking. That's where I was looking at that schoo reading. A lot of things I understood, like migration and other lofty subjects, but I didn't understand how there was such a negative talk about drinking coffee. That against your background as a diplomat, when it was always said, wherever I came to embassies as a foreign spokesperson: Dutch people are too blunt and too direct, that sometimes gives some problems, you shouldn't always start with it; learn to invest in cooperation and drink more coffee anyway. Why do Mrs Kaag have this vision of coffee?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u154	Because it's often very bilateral, in the very personal and it's little business. I would like to make an appointment with Mr Segers................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is a total understatement of international diplomacy, as if it were without agenda and without content. Diplomats have a purpose. They're trying to do that. Yeah, they're building a knowledge network, they're in touch, but it's not always personal. It is much more businesslike and, in my view, it is more targeted. That's the way I've always looked at it. I find that a pleasant way of working. It's up to everyone you're a nestor in this Chamber to do it in a different way, but I also give myself the right to apply what works for me and how I like to communicate transparently and openly about it. I know it's a culture in The Hague. Every country has its mores. I also drink coffee, but it's a little different if I'm comfortable with that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u155	It is Mr Van der Staaij, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u156	Mr Van der Staaij. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u157	Then Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA. Then Mrs Van der Plas, then Mr Van Houwelingen, Mr Eerdmans, Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u158	Like many here, I read Mrs Kaag's lecture with interest last night. In a number of areas, it gives its views on the problems affecting the Netherlands and the world. On a number of subjects, I can follow her very well. Now vision is only beautiful, but that also includes action. Without action, it's no good to anyone. As I said to Mr Rutte, as a room, we're just missionary. We can now solve problems for people, despite the continuing formation, which has not yet led to anything. I also heard Mrs Kaag talk in the lecture about poverty in the Netherlands and the importance of equal opportunities. Can she support my proposal to convert the 2 billion gift to business into 2 billion going to the wallet of ordinary people whose purchasing power is lagging behind? I can imagine that she fully agrees as leader of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u159	I find it uncomfortable and I agree with what Mr Rutte said. I think that's what the General Political Reviews are for. At the same time, it is uncomfortable for me here as a Member of Parliament to judge a decision of the outgoing cabinet. I don't think that's the way I want to work dualistally. I find that uncomfortable and I can't. The reserved moment in the Chamber is the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u160	In turn, I find it uncomfortable that I was elected by the people who voted for the Labour Party to represent them in this Chamber. My mission is to be a coalition, an opposition, a missionary, a missionary to stand in front of those people. I see that this missionary cabinet is giving 2 billion to business, while people's purchasing power is lagging behind. I find it uncomfortable that there will then be a six-month formation in which we have not been able to negotiate it and that there will always be references in this missionary Chamber to decisions taken by a outgoing cabinet, which we all have to wait and see if this time it chooses for ordinary people rather than for large business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u161	I hear very clearly what Mrs Ploumen is saying. I will take this with me, but I do not think it is right to mix roles and decision-making processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u162	I heard Mrs Kaag say at the very beginning: I don't trust anyone except my husband, my children, my family and some of my friends. That's a good thing for Mrs Kaag. She really is a family woman. But a coalition is also a family. The coalition we want, whatever it looks like, is also a family. In this country we also have a lot of family. 17 million people trust that this family here, the cabinet and the 150 people's representatives will take good care of the large family that lives in the country. So I am a little concerned that both Mrs Kaag and Mr Rutte here do not want to say very clearly that they really have enough confidence in each other to take care of the family for the next three and a half years. I would also like to ask Mrs Kaag explicitly to do so, even if it is business confidence... I understand that you may not trust Mr Rutte to do a message for you or for your family, but for the rest here. Actually, I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u163	I think it'll follow. The parties joining a cabinet, whether it is a majority cabinet or a minority cabinet, must have made clear agreements with each other so that you can trust each other that you are going to implement them together. This is also reflected in the piece of VVD and D66 on governance culture; that is a very important element. I also understand what Mrs Van der Plas says about the greater importance of trust, especially in a polarized Netherlands. I also see that politics, so we all, must take the lead in this. That's incredibly important. I also appreciate the pleasant tone on which this question is asked. But it is up to those who take responsibility to form and join a cabinet to work it out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u164	I get it, but I'd just like to hear you look each other in the eye here and say, okay, we trust each other, at least enough to get on with the forming. To be honest, I had serious doubts about this at the speech last night, which has already been mentioned a number of times. I thought, "What is Mrs Kaag doing now? This is going to be some kind of bomb under the formation. What exactly is the purpose of this?" If we want to move forward with the formation and not go to new elections, then I would be here... a lot is said, but just that one is not said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u165	Because I don't think it's necessary either. I gave a speech yesterday consisting of 44 minutes of content and direction. There's nothing new under the sun. I've been telling the public and the indoors for the last year and a half. That it is suddenly perceived as a news fact, I find sometimes amazing, but that is how it is. The content stands and I support my words. We'll keep working as D66. I also said yesterday that we are always constructive, but it is also the right to speak regularly on behalf of your own party and your own ideas. That's important. That's a matter of saying what you stand for in a transparent way. I don't do that through sources or other channels. No, I'll say that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u166	Finally, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u167	Finally, what deadline does Mrs Kaag consider acceptable when it comes to forming a coalition? Is that four weeks or two weeks? Does that have a date on it? What time limit do you think is acceptable to take this last attempt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u168	I think that's a very difficult one. I think that this is first of all for Mr Remkes, who I believe is a man of action, also in the spirit of Mrs Hammer, who has had to be very patient for a very large number of weeks and has given direction to the content. I'm not gonna put a deadline on that. I await the start of Mr Remkes, should that happen with the approval of the Chamber. We will always be committed. I also realise the importance of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u169	Then Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy and then Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u170	I read the Schoo reading with great pleasure and interest. I have a question. It is clear from your schoo reading that you are certainly not in favour of nationalism. I quote very briefly. You write: "Nationalism is striving for power at the expense of others. Nationalism blinds. Nationalism is hunger for power, a deadly game in which one must win and the other must lose." That's the way it goes. You are of course very well in all kinds of international gremia. You are, of course, the coordinator of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and you have a role in the World Economic Forum. You are not a nationalist; that is clear, but would you identify yourself as "globalist"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u171	I'm not gonna end up in some kind of discussion about this. I consider myself to be a patriot, someone who is patriotic and who also thinks internationally, who acts European and thinks internationally, because that is also in the interests of the country. That is not the drawing of the narrow dividing lines and that is not just talking about "the Netherlands first." It is the importance of the Netherlands to draw and talk about it in a broader context. I do that in all international fora, but I do it in patriotism. That was also mentioned yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u172	I think that is very important for formation, because you are talking about Dutch interest. Can you give an example, even if only one, in which, for example, the Sustainable Development Goals or for my part, the agenda of the World Economic Forum there and there are not necessarily in Dutch interest? Do you sometimes see conflicts of interest and can you give one example of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u173	There are conflicts of interest everywhere, but as you know, the Sustainable Development Goals, the Sustainable Development Goals, I also say for Mrs Van der Plas, were also signed by Prime Minister Rutte in 2015. They are also applicable at national level. So you measure the quality of education, you measure progress and you measure climate change and what that means. Sometimes it works well and sometimes it doesn't work well. Yes, unfortunately, there are many cases where progress is too slow, especially in crisis areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u174	That's the point. Of course, I know what the Sustainable Development Goals are, but do you see any conflicts of interest? Is there something you say: yes, we do want to do that with the SDGs, but that is not in the Dutch interest so we should not do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u175	Well, the trade agenda and the development cooperation agenda compiled by the cabinet for which I was responsible, so Rutte III, always relate to the Dutch interest. This means investing in security, investing in freedom elsewhere and investing in sustainable development of countries and people elsewhere, because that is also enlightened self-interest. Not everything is a contradiction. I honestly don't know exactly where Mr. Van Houwelingen is going with this, but he can read all the studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u176	Mr Van Houwelingen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u177	You are unable to give even one example. So to me, you're a globalist. For you, the global interest is the same as the Dutch interest. That's very interesting for us to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u178	To be honest, I find that conclusion a bit loose-fast. It was in the question, of course; you wanted to come to that. I believe that the Netherlands, as a trading country, to give just one concrete example, would have little benefit in withdrawing from global systems. There are a lot of jobs involved and we attract investment. The Netherlands as an island, as Mr. Van Houwelingen might want, is really short-sighted. That really goes against the national interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u179	I'm kind of jumping to conclusions for myself. I have the impression that you have at least dropped one blockade and that is against the Christian Union, provided that there is a cabinet with PvdA and GroenLinks. So it's a six-party coalition. Did I get that right from your speech? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u180	We have always said to the informant, and unfortunately that has never been noticed by others, that we have to work out of the six. We have also put forward an option for this: six, five, four-plus, as I called it. That could have been a representation of GroenLinks or PvdA within the cabinet, with one party in the group. Anyway, that's not up to us. We have always mentioned two variants with the Christian Union, and you have made that quite clear. So there was never any blockade from us in that respect. We didn't want a continuation of the their own coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u181	It seems to be becoming a little clearer now that the Christian Union can actually get on board, provided PvdA and GroenLinks are there. That would be a majority variant, so that would still yield a majority cabinet. But we also know that Mr Rutte said: yes, sorry, I am not participating in a cabinet in which there are numbers of unnecessary parties. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u182	Yeah, you put it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u183	Finally, Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u184	So? Then we've summarized that. We've been putting things together here for months, but where does that get us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u185	As you know, this brings us to a degree of shared frustration and concerns, which have also been appointed by everyone. At the same time, there is still little discussion on Mrs Hamer's substantive report. But there is progress and we await the arrival of Mr Remkes. We do not speak out for a minority cabinet or a majority cabinet. We've put a few options on the table. In any case, broad support will be needed, no matter what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u186	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u187	I have one more question. It's about your speech. You are very happy with your own speech and that is of course pleasant. You clearly showed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u188	I have to stand in front of my own words!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u189	Yes, no, you even started repeating it. You are very pleased with your own speech. But if you look back now, the day after, did that speech contribute to a better understanding, especially between you and the VVD? Do you think you've contributed to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u190	The speech was planned a long time ago. I support the words and the content. In particular, it is about a different political culture. What I find very remarkable is that here, and also outside, is ultimately about one or two things people read in it. You do not hear anything about migration, about climate and nothing about inequality of opportunity or about political culture, which we all need to improve. You don't hear about the board style. It is being reduced very much and I find that very unfortunate myself, but I do not give lectures for headlines. So I'm gonna have to live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u191	Excuse me, Mr. Eerdmans, you're through your interruptions. Then we get a very nice interaction that I don't think makes us all happy. Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals and then Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u192	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to join with Mrs Marijnissen's surprise that we will get back the Rutte trick of "what are your reactions to that piece?'. Of course, we have not seen that piece for a very long time, which "tests for a start" or "building stones." So underneath that disclaimer, I'd like to say something about it. Thanks for the invitation. We in the Party for Animals missed nature, biodiversity and the approach to the nitrogen crisis. And in all honesty: what was said about the climate is only a very small tightening up, after the IPCC report. I don't think that's much. I have a question for Mrs Kaag. I have also read the reading she said yesterday. We could have written and pronounced these ourselves: so many fine words about the importance of protecting our environment and so many analyses about that "feasible" and "affordable" arguments are to do nothing. The question is this. This cabinet is outgoing, but Mr Rutte has just admitted that a outgoing cabinet must also respect the rule of law. Then I'll come to the Urgendavonnis. This cabinet is far from it. And D66 is still part of this cabinet. So I ask myself in all sincerity: is it wise to keep Rutte still in the saddle for three and a half, while this cabinet proves that Urgenda-speaks are being ignored?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u193	Two things. Mrs Ouwehand rightly points out that it is a document on the main lines. There are really elements that aren't in there yet. I think she also rightly refers to the importance of the IPCC report. I think we thought it would have been enough. If that is not the case, then I agree that this is much more important, because it may be clear that there is urgency and lack of time. It is also true that, of course, a missionary cabinet has been held to carry out the Urgendavonnis. It's about the rule of law. In the end, judicial rulings must be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u194	I'm glad Mrs Kaag says that. But then we come to a difficult point and we have to go there all the time. Because we can all, hopefully, say fine words, but it is the question of what you do, especially if it is always about changing the governance culture and working on restoring trust, so that people can really have confidence in The Hague. On the one hand, you say that climate change is here and now, that it is an existential danger and that we cannot afford not to act on it; we have that verdict. But on the other hand, you continue to support the VVD. I can just imagine that the VVD and the CDA together are really holding back on this. The question then is whether that helps to restore people's confidence in politics and the new governance culture or whether it is actually more of the same. Mrs Kaag is right to say that we have to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u195	I don't know exactly where Mrs. Ouwehand is going with this. There have been elections. We all regret that we are still at this impasse. I believe that there is a good document on the main lines. At the same time, the outgoing cabinet must indeed implement the judgments. I don't know what else she's looking for or what suggestion she might be making. Maybe I miss that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u196	I'd like to clarify it. This cabinet, Mrs Kaag, confirms that as well, missionary if she is, however, the execution of court rulings is bound to take place, but that does not happen. And D66 is still in there. But I would think: a cabinet headed by Rutte's VVD, which refuses to make those statements... That VVD, which is the outgoing Prime Minister, does not really deserve any political friends anymore, and certainly not the friendship of a climate party like D66. So that's my question. We see that this missionary cabinet, supported by D66, is still not carrying out those climate sentences. I would just like to ask the following, also in view of that reading, which I agree with. We have an existential danger. There's a big responsibility. But does it contribute to this new governance culture, to the restoration of trust when you say: if we do not abide by the rule of law in the meantime, is that a pity-the-bearer, but we continue to support Rutte? That seems a little crazy to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u197	There have been elections. There must be a new cabinet as soon as possible. In the meantime, court rulings will have to be enforced. I do not know whether Mrs Ouwehand is suggesting anything else, namely that we should leave a outgoing cabinet. I'm not sure what she means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u198	Mrs Ouwehand, perhaps one more specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u199	I imagine you say: then we will bring our rulers back, because we are not going to give political support to a cabinet that is not going to comply with the Urgendavonnis and those judgments of the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u200	I think we all, missionary, have to do everything we can to carry out the statements. That's not either-or. Furthermore, I would find it very unwise and destabilizing to do so. We need a new cabinet team as soon as possible. Of course, the implementation of the judgments, including the Urgendavonnis, must be a top priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u201	Thank you. Then Mr Dassen van Volt and Mrs Simons van BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u202	I have a more enlightening question. We are, of course, also talking in the debate about the next informant and the assignment or question we are going to give him, should Mr Remkes become it. But it is not quite clear to me which direction we are going with it. When I hear Mr Rutte, read the motion and take Mrs Hammer's report, it seems to be heading towards a minority cabinet. But Mrs Kaag indicates several times that she is also looking at a majority cabinet. I am therefore curious to see what Mrs Kaag stands for and what she will do in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u203	If Mr Remkes accepts the motion, the assignment, it is primarily up to him. I'm gonna go talk to him about that. As far as D66 is concerned, all variants are on the table: minority and majority. I've named it before. A minority variant needs broad support anyway, so also through substantive discussions with the other parties. But our starting point for the informant is again: from the six broad cooperation. We support Mr Rutte's motion. The outcome of our own role, participation or not, is still uncertain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u204	Mr. Dassen. No? Then we go to Mrs Simons van Bij1, and then to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u205	Mr Dassen asked a question that I had already asked: what does Mrs Kaag base the progress of the formation on? But more importantly, where does Mrs Kaag base the belief that, after six months of speaking, it will be purely and simply about the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u206	On the one hand there is a nice piece of content. I keep repeating that. But the informant, Mrs Hamer, of course also concluded that every time it caught up with: who with? I have no faith in that. I have a bet to try any way, from whatever role, even as a party that has 24 seats, to get this to an end. That's responsibility. Faith is a matter of having another way of trust. I don't know. But it is the stake, because I do not think we can afford another election. Moreover, the electorate is not a call force that we call to say: ho, we have all decided on new elections; will you join us again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u207	I share Mrs Kaag's view that new elections are very undesirable. In my opinion, no citizen in the Netherlands is waiting for that. At the same time, with this attitude, the outcome can also be used to restart the conversation. For D66 there is no end point, no fixed goal. Yeah, coming out, but it's not exactly concrete. As a result, of course, the risk remains that we will be months away and will come to the conclusion that new elections are inevitable. I ask Mrs Kaag: what confidence can you at least give to the electorate that, if it is up to you, we will not come out 'hopefully', but that we will come out, if necessary, with a minority cabinet not wanted by BEL1? What's the answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u208	I think we're gonna get out of here. We have neither the luxury of time nor the credibility to fail to reach a conclusion. But I'm not the informant. After Mrs Hammer, with her strong and, of course, slightly depressing report, it is also our responsibility to enable Mr Remkes to conclude quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u209	Thank you. Unfortunately, you are also through your questions, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union. I think that after that Mr Dassen is from Volt. Isn't it? No. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u210	I hear Mrs Kaag say that Mrs Hammer has done a strong job, or at least has written a strong report. Do I understand that she agrees with me that Mrs Hamer has indeed produced a good report and has done a good job?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u211	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u212	But does she support the conclusions and advice of the informant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u213	I have to make the point again, because I think Mr Segers wants me to comment on that. I'm just looking for the final conclusion. Against this background, Mrs Hamer says: "The line of lack of a majority variant towards the creation of a minority variant is therefore very fragile. It is the responsibility of all parties involved to realise this and not to further reduce the confidence of the electorate." Then it will indeed set up a discussion and discussion of a minority variant. But as I said before, we have all the variants on the table, the minority, the majority and the broad cooperation from the six.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u214	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u215	Honestly, I'm worried. I am concerned about this answer. The informant has been the longest-sitting informant. I don't think she's proud of that. But she's been working on the contents. She's brought parties around the table. She's had endless conversations. She asked everyone the question: do you like this? We've been presented with all the options. It's in the report. All these options have come through. Then almost six months after the election, after everything that's happened, we can't say that we're going to start again, that we're going to do everything again and everything is back on the table? There's been work done, isn't there? Serious questions have been asked, haven't they? We can't say: well, maybe it won't work at this stage, but maybe it will in the next stage? That's gonna end sometime. There is no phase other than this phase. This is the final phase. We must take the work seriously. We need to talk now. If the advice now is "look at a minority cabinet," then go and work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u216	Maybe I wasn't clear enough. Mr Segers concludes something I am not saying. We have said this systematically, and it is also stated in the report: we need broad support, whether a minority comes out or not. But if suddenly there is a majority variation in the conversations, then Mr Segers cannot say: this is in Mrs Hamer's report, so we must be against it. We keep the doors open for a majority. If the starting point is a minority, we will see if we can and want to join. The only minority we do not want is de facto the continuation of the current coalition. But we are in it constructively. I cannot recognize myself in the step that Mr Segers is taking. No one here is saying that we have months to go on farming far from it. Mr Remkes does not have time for that. The country doesn't have time for that. And neither do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u217	It is important to discuss this issue as well, because we need to know what mission we say yes to an informant as a Chamber. It cannot be that the compromise is that everyone has their own ideas. Mr Rutte's motion refers to the report of the informant. Mrs Hamer has outlined what has been done. The informant says it clearly: if unfortunately a majority cabinet cannot be formed, a minority variant automatically appears. It is said: I recommend that an informant from the VVD House be appointed to accompany coalition negotiations 'where it is now obvious to focus them on forming a minority coalition from a combination of VVD, D66 and CDA to be defined'. Is that what D66 says yes to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u218	We agree with Mrs Hammer's conclusions. That's very clear. But we have not yet said that we are automatically going to be a part of the minority variant, even if it is not written in this way. This requires broad support. As far as we are concerned, there is a majority and a minority on the table. That's what we've always said. That's what I'm saying now. I think this is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u219	Finally. Is the assignment given to the informant to see if a minority cabinet can be formed from a combination of VVD, D66 and CDA to be defined?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u220	Yeah, I've answered before, too. Of course we're going to discuss the minority variant. That is the task for Mr Remkes. But I think it's really weird to pretend that there might not be any options and options left to get a majority variant. Otherwise, we would also underestimate Mr Remkes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u221	I'd like to move on to the last, because that's where I think things are going wrong right now. The task now ahead is to find out if a minority coalition can be formed. That's how the VVD's putting it down now. There is now, in my view, some vagueness as to where we are going with this motion. If there is still a majority coalition on the table, then we must rephrase the assignment to the informant. Otherwise, I don't think we can accept this motion. Or at least I expect Mrs Kaag not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u222	I think there's two things mixed up here. We support the motion. Let that be clear. There's no doubt about that at all. Secondly, the discussion with Mr Remkes has yet to take place. But I cannot guarantee in advance that we will automatically enter a minority cabinet. You'll understand that, too. That cannot be the purpose of Mr Dassen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u223	I understand that very well. Only, we're now ordering the informant to pick out a minority coalition. Then the majority coalition is off the table, as I interpret it. That's unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u224	I think Mr Remkes should start his talks. I will continue with Mr Remkes. I have now said a number of times that I believe Mr Rutte has also said that a minority variant will also need broad support for constructive cooperation with the States General. The informant will investigate how that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u225	You're also through your interruptions, Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u226	I think I understand very well how Mrs Kaag interprets the motion. Before the roads are separated here, I would almost say, I would like to hear exactly how the author of this motion means this, because I have read the motion in a different way. I understand Mrs Kaag's interpretation, but I have just read the motion differently. So I would like to hear from Mr Rutte how that is. I ask that now because we do not have a second term in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u227	Yeah, I get that. Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u228	To carry out Mrs Hammer's report, so that means to see if there is a minority cabinet to be formed from these three parties. D66 rightly says it, and it also applies to my party: I cannot guarantee that we will join such a cabinet. But it is, of course, open to all three parties to make such a decision. What Mrs Kaag also says, I understand, is: you never know, of course, whether Jesse Klaver will arrive alone after all. I'm just calling it a variant. Then you have to relate to that, too. But he hasn't done that so far, so I guess that won't happen under Remkes either. And so we're going to look at a minority variant. I think that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u229	A point of order from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u230	At least as a chamber, we have the right to know what we're up to now. I can really hear a difference. Mr Rutte says: under Remkes only research into a minority cabinet. Mrs Kaag says she supports Rutte's motion, so she claims to investigate only a minority cabinet. Mrs Kaag says: no, I do not rule out other options. That's a difference in interpretation. So I want to know not only what Mr Rutte means, but also what he thinks of Mrs Kaag's interpretation. He's the first signatory. His interpretation is valid. I would like to know what he thinks of Mrs Kaag's interpretation. Because Mrs Kaag says something different than you. Mrs Kaag does not say: a minority cabinet consisting of VVD, D66 and CDA. Mrs Kaag says: something else can be added to that. Is it also your interpretation that that can be done, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u231	I think the motion is clear. This means that Remkes, in my view, is going to look into how we can form a minority cabinet from these three parties, with none of these three parties in advance committing themselves here to join the minority cabinet. But it will have to come from these three parties. That's one. Mrs Kaag, I think, said'she's about her own words, but that's how I interpreted it that there are all kinds of blockades, for example in Mrs Kaag's case towards the Christian Union. Suppose D66 comes to the understanding that that blockade can be removed. Then there will be a new situation. If Mrs Ploumen decided to join a cabinet with the Labour Party, a new situation would arise. So, of course, that can always happen. We assume that this is not the case, because Mrs Hammer has touched and tried to look at it from all sides, and it has not been possible. That is why it is now obvious to look at this variant, namely: can you form a minority cabinet from these three parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u232	Thank you. This brings us to the end of your contribution. Thank you, Mrs Kaag. Then I suggest that we continue with Mr Wilders of the PVV and then suspend for a dinner break. I understand that's a bit of a disappointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u233	Mr President, thank you very much. Last night, as I said in an interruption, Mrs Kaag publicly humiliated Mr Rutte and shit again. After decapitating Rutte politically six months ago with a motion of censure for his lies, she now poses him as a zipper with no vision, as an unreliable, inhumane relationship manager playing games in backrooms. In doing so, she has de facto given the kick-off for new elections. Because anyone who still thinks that Rutte and Kaag can run our country together isn't entirely in his head. Rutte and Kaag have the mutual chemistry of a morgue, and that won't change anymore. Not a hundred brake-kesses will succeed in making this one stable cabinet. Mr. Chairman. It would also be a victory for the Netherlands if Rutte and Kaag did not start to rule. Look at those building blocks of Rutte and Kaag that we were finally allowed to see. It turns out to be just a summary of the D66 election programme, with a lot on diversity and sustainability and open borders, but even Rutte's kneel, who deceived his constituents by signing the D66 programme, didn't help him. He is still being portrayed by Kaag as an unreliable hustler. So nine months after the fall of the Rutte III cabinet, we were only sucked further into the swamp. The voters are rarely as fooled as by these fake negotiators who can't actually see each other or air each other. It is also an important and unbelievable disgrace that this outgoing cabinet is just gonna continue to govern for another nine months as if nothing's going on. They've got zero! They've got zero! For nine months now, the electorate's mandate has been to take heavy political decisions in a missionary situation, as if nothing had happened, as if they were still missionary, as if they were corona tickets, as if they were billions of dollars for climate policy, as if they were letting in planes full of Afghans, as if they were expropriating our farmers. That's impossible, isn't it? In fact, members of parliament were shamelessly appointed Cabinet members. Mr. Chairman. In a state-law sense, Rutte simply commits a coup, half a coup. What a dedain for democracy! It may be that he's laughing again now, but if you're outgoing for nine months, you're making important decisions about expropriating farmers and billions going to the climate instead of pensions. We can't do that in a missionary status. That's not how it's supposed to be. I hope the cabinet will stop doing so immediately. Meanwhile, precious time has also been wasted by investigating whether negotiations could be conducted with GroenLinks and the Labour Party. I wonder how democratic that is. GroenLinks was the biggest loser in the election. The Labour Party has also remained the same and has fewer than ten seats. Both sides are far from doing well. In March, the Netherlands said no to the ideas of both parties. However, they have been talking for months about whether or not to negotiate and about participating in a cabinet. That's insane. We must quickly have new elections to break the current deadlock and to create a new cabinet with a new mandate. The Netherlands has major problems in the area of crime and care. There is a lack of investment and care workers. We have energy notes rising. We have pensions that are not indexed. We have the purchasing power of Dutch people who get into trouble. Nothing's gonna happen about it. Meanwhile, lucky seekers take our homes and we don't have a missionary cabinet in the Netherlands with a mandate to solve the problems. It's too embarrassing for words. I therefore call on the Chamber to support my request for rapid, new Parliamentary elections. I will table another motion on this in the second term. Put an end to this charade and stop Rutte's coup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u234	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I propose that we suspend until 8 p.m. for a dinner break. I see some displeasure about this in the CDA field, but we also have a restaurant that takes into account a large group and there are a number of other speakers. So I'm really suspending the meeting. I hope our dinner break doesn't become a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u235	I ask the journalists to leave the Chamber and I ask Members to take their seats. Then I can give the floor to Mr Hoekstra of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u236	Thank you, Mr President. There is a lot going well in our beautiful country, but of course there are also great challenges. A number of speakers have already referred to it. Unaffordable homes for a lot of Dutch people make people distraughtly wonder if having their own house or their own rental house is in them too. Security and the rule of law are at stake. The way in which the cocaine mafia is eating away at the rule of law is an extremely serious problem for all of us. Climate is a huge challenge: for this generation, but certainly also for the next generation. In the very short term, we will have to do much more with that. Geopolitics has returned from never leaving, and then there is the way we live together. Unfortunately, that is very much me and very little us. So there's a lot to do. Other speakers have also referred to this, including in the case of interruption. That means we need to speed up formation. That question is something of all of us and of course it also requires something from us as a CDA. As far as the last phase is concerned, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Hamer very much for all her efforts, for the report she has produced and for the many sessions she has managed to accompany with something that sometimes bordered on angelic patience. The CDA certainly didn't win the election. Then I'll say it carefully. The challenge of many of us in the party and of many of us in the group was therefore: let us resource. It is most obvious to do so in the opposition. At the same time, the sense of reality is falling at some point in time in that, given how the electorate distributed all the parties, it would be even more difficult for us to say: we do not want to talk in any variant at all. So we have said that we are prepared to take responsibility and look at it constructively. For us, the continuation of the current coalition was the most logical. It worked well. It has dealt with a wide range of problems. It was generally in good harmony and good atmosphere. This coalition has also been rewarded by the electorate with a larger mandate than in 2017. So that was obvious to us. If it really didn't work out, we've always indicated, then there are a lot of variants that we also want to look at openly and constructively. We have mentioned a lot of other parties: the SP, JA21, the SGP, Volt, PvdA and GroenLinks. To our surprise and disappointment, none of this is feasible. That's why we're here today. This is another phase. This is a phase in which we can be constructive again. See also the appeal to responsibility that Mrs Hammer has made on all of us. Let's be honest. In addition to possible benefits, the Scandinavian countries have a lot of experience with it........................................................................................................................................................................................... Given where we stand, given where the country stands with the formation, given the growing impatience and the, understandable, growing misunderstanding, we think that we should move forward in this way. We shall support Mr Rutte's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u237	Thank you, Mr. Hoekstra. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What makes this outgoing cabinet a mess. Of course, we would also like to thank Mrs Hammer for her efforts. I can tell you that I wouldn't like to switch places with her, because it seemed to me like a charade that we've been watching all summer. We have heard many firm words about radical ideas Mark Rutte would have for the new governance culture. We had Sigrid Kaag with her campaign on new leadership. If that's what we've seen over the past few months, that doesn't really cheer me up. Then this new governance culture looks a lot like the old governance culture. Mr. Chairman. That's not good. For weeks, months, we've seen politicians walk out one by one. Each time it was said: we are talking so nicely along the lines of content. I can hardly hear it anymore. How striking is it, then, when Mrs Hammer comes up with her final report and we have to read in it that hardly any mention has been made of that content. In fact, Mrs Hamer says that imagery was particularly important. So it seems that the only content actually discussed there was the content of the morning newspapers, in which someone said something about someone else. Mr. Chairman. That's not good. It is especially not good for all those people in the Netherlands who cannot find an affordable house at the moment. I'm just saying. At the moment, nothing is happening to deal with the housing crisis. It is not good for the caregivers who are still waiting for their salary increases, for people in the police and in education, who have started again, who are all facing major deficits. There's no bag going on right now. It is not good for the people in the crucial professions. Remember? During the corona crisis, we applauded. From shopkeeper to driver, they'd all get pay. Well, they're still waiting. The minimum wage has still not been raised, while the number of millionaires, on the other hand, has grown enormously during the corona crisis. But there is no bag to deal with this inequality either. The victims of the supplemental scandal are still waiting. The people in Groningen in their broken houses are still waiting. In the meantime we see a missionary cabinet that has become a revolving door cabinet. In the meantime, there has been so much change in posts that no one can say exactly who is doing what. Mr. Chairman. It also leads to people growing distrust of whether this is going to work out. If you look at the piece provided by CDA Excuse me; no, I leave you out of it, Mr. Hoekstra VVD and D66, then it seems to us very much as if in a Rutte IV there will be a start of the Rutte I, II and III that we have already seen. That's what worries us. What makes us even more concerned is that the outgoing cabinet is not doing what it should do. In any case, as long as it is not possible to pull the formation smoothly, let it do the right thing. Doing the right thing is doing what this House of Representatives wants. For example, the House of Representatives, which was democratically elected by the people of the Netherlands six months ago, has long wanted salaries to rise. For a long time now, the House of Representatives wanted our people in Afghanistan to be brought back safely. That's not gonna happen. But what the outgoing cabinet does, on the other hand, is what it should not do. We saw a contemptuous view of the Constitution when MPs were asked to stop their chamber work and join a cabinet. We had Mrs Broekers-Knol, who wanted to change asylum policy behind the back of the Chamber. As a blow to the flames, I say that a bit cynical. We had Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen, who left to get a job somewhere in the lobby sector. It's all gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. It didn't surprise us, but it did make us think again. That is what Mrs Hammer said in her final report on the six middle parties, which she analysed as being quite similar in substance. And indeed, when we read the piece of VVD and D66, we also see in that piece that is not going to be broken with capitalism, that will not be broken with an economic order that only works for the few and not for the many. But it does make it clear what the role of the SP will be, even in the coming period, because we really think that a different sound is absolutely necessary. We will take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u239	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u240	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Hammer for her commitment in recent months and for her final report. Mr. Chairman. It is now almost six months since the electorate spoke and the cabinet formation has not progressed very well. An entire summer we watched VVD and D66 write a substantive piece, but when that was finished, nothing changed at all. It did not turn out to be a substantive route for coalition discussions. It became a sad spectacle that through blockages of others led to nothing. This formation goes even slower than a snail, because at least a snail goes forward and has a direction: two things we unfortunately cannot say of this formation under the guidance of the VVD. Because while some politicians do not want to talk to others, the Netherlands waits. The housing shortage, growing inequality, precarious work, climate change: nothing is happening at all. Nothing is happening for the Groningen people and for the victims of the surcharge scandal, but the reason why this cabinet has been decommissioned for almost eight months. The Netherlands needs a new cabinet that jointly seeks answers to these problems. I do not share the cynical view that the middle parties could quickly agree on a coalition agreement, because it will still have to be negotiated. That's the way it's supposed to be. The Netherlands benefits from a policy of confrontation between ideologies, visions and ideas, within a coalition and between Chamber and Cabinet. That's what the conversations should be about. Tough choices have to be made about this: about the financial implementation of all these plans, but above all about where we want to go with the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. That's where it goes wrong. Because where are we now, almost six months after the election? VVD and CDA screens for reasons of substance why they exclude parties, to hide that their own business is above national interest. Directors come and go from the missionary cabinet and even leave behind a ministerial post to become a lobbyist for the coal industry; personal gain over social responsibility. There is a VVD leader who went to the electorate with the message, and I quote him, by the way, with agreement that he wants to 'form a broad coalition with reasonable parties' and'move quickly into a cabinet'. But his actions lead to the exact opposite. We have been hearing cabinet members say for over a year and a half that we must get through this difficult time together. But those same politicians are only talking about who they don't want to work with. Then we shouldn't be surprised that people don't have faith in politics. If you'd like to go into history as a statesman, act like one, my call would be. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party was prepared to enter into substantive negotiations. That would undoubtedly be difficult negotiations, but we want to see if we can achieve something for our constituents. For everyone who has followed the election campaign, it cannot come as a surprise: we do so together with GroenLinks. I made that promise to the electorate, and I keep that promise. Mr. Chairman. We're 174 days after the election and it's actually going from bad to worse. Prince's Daypieces leak out. Nitrogen plans are in the paper. The States of Limburg are more informed about the appointment of Johan Remkes as an informant than the House of Representatives. A new governance culture goes further out of sight every day under Rutte. Demissionary is not a free pass to mess around democratically. The result of the elections gives the winners VVD and D66 an expensive duty to form a cabinet that can count on the support of the majority of voters. No attempt has yet been made to do so. It's necessary. The PvdA Group will therefore vote against proposals for a minority coalition. Let me be clear, too. The idea that a minority cabinet of right-wing parties can count on some kind of support from us is an illusion. We will be strongly opposed to right-wing policy, because we need a fairer, more social and more sustainable Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u241	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u242	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Mrs Hammer for the work she has done over the last few months. I don't envy her having to try to work with all of us. It pleads for her that she's been able to keep up with us for so long. I am sorry that she had to write the report she wrote, because I do not think it was necessary. Today we welcomed five new colleagues here in Parliament. You let them take the oath or the promise, as we all do 150. A very important part of that oath is: I swear (promise) loyalty to the King, to the Statute for the Kingdom and to the Constitution. I swear (promise) that I will faithfully fulfill my duties. One of those duties is that, however difficult it is, we try to work together, that we try to break through the substantive differences that we already know exist. I find it almost democratically indigestible that this attempt has not been made, that it has not been negotiated in substance, whether it is with the colleagues of the Christian Union or with the combination of the Labour Party and the GroenLinks Party. The tradition in which we stand is a tradition in which we try to bridge differences. That is not being done now, and I really think that is a missed opportunity. Because what do we show the Netherlands? In the corona crisis, we asked people in care to run extra services: "Get your shoulders under it. Work together. It's gonna take a while." We're asking all those heroes in the front line to take a step further. And what do we do if we are asked to take a step further? There's a fight going on. I think that is absolutely unnecessary. 300,000 homes are not enough in the Netherlands. Nothing's been done about that for the past six months. 40,000 people in the Netherlands are homeless or homeless. The solution has not come any closer. One in twelve children in the Netherlands grows up in poverty. What have we done with each other to try to reach agreement to help those children? Year after year, we are lagging behind the targets of tackling climate change. It didn't happen. 100,000 people are currently waiting for a place in mental health care. Politics is not a game. Too often that is considered so and we will talk for hours about Mrs Kaag's speech, about what she might or might not have said, about what it would mean for the relationship with Mark Rutte. Who cares? We have an expensive duty to work together. The fact that that doesn't happen is a real disgrace to me. That's why I reacted so annoyed when Mark Rutte just spoke here. He says that there are six parties who need to speak with each other and take responsibility and then tries to say: from a minority cabinet. If we are now scary to talk to, then we will be too when we are in the opposition, and we are going to do so with extremes. But if there is even one second the impression is that we would tolerate a minority cabinet; forget it. We will support proposals which are good. That's always been our line. But don't think we're gonna put out a hand to move forward with proposals that aren't right. We're gonna vote them out. I think it is a shame that this is the way we are now being taken. That's unnecessary. With a little political courage, we could have negotiated a majority cabinet with each other. That is not easy, because then you have to explain to your VVD supporters that you are going to negotiate with those scary people from GroenLinks. And then I have to explain to my constituents that we're gonna sit with that horrible man of a Mark Rutte anyway. But I dare, because the Netherlands deserves politicians working together and boxing something for each other instead of arguing with each other and reviewing speeches.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u243	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u244	Mr. Chairman. Almost four months ago we had the debate here with the previous informant, Herman Tjeenk Willink. Then the Animal Party said: we can't go on, we can only do that if there is confidence. That trust wasn't there at the time. But it had to and would be about the content, so that the attention was finely deduced that the newly elected House of Representatives had been lied to by the leader of the VVD. That wasn't the first time. It wasn't the first time he suddenly couldn't remember. That was a very fundamental breach of confidence. There, Mr. Chairman, was the real crisis. But we would solve it, bypass the problem, by talking about the content. And four months later, the new informant's report shows that there was no willingness to do so. So the VVD has taken this House hostage again by simply pretending for its own party political interests that it was about the content, while it was just the purpose to buy time, so Mark Rutte would be washed clean of his sins and no one would talk about it anymore. Mr. Chairman. That might work in the imaging, but the Party for Animals doesn't. For we have all been elected and Mr Klaver has just spoken about it as well as having sworn allegiance to the Constitution. This means that the House of Representatives has the task and duty to form a government operating within the limits of the rule of law. That's condition one. So the crisis isn't so much that we don't have a cabinet. No, the crisis is that we cannot form a cabinet on which the Netherlands can rely and that remains within the limits of the rule of law. Could have if the VVD, and I'm also looking at the CDA, had made a move. For a test for a start to a government agreement is for the Party for Animals to look carefully at what parties who want to rule, who want to continue to lead the country, are doing at this time. In missionary status, that was no better than under Rutte III. The rule of law is over and over again. The boundaries are searched and, according to one of the indications, the moral compass is lost. Mr. Chairman. A cabinet could be formed, but those responsible for this major political crisis of confidence will have to move. And we haven't seen that yet. I actually asked my questions to the informant last time. You could move forward if there is a reflection, if there is an analysis of what we have done not a vague system, but we have done ourselves wrong so that it could have come to that incredible surcharge scandal, in which people have been destroyed. How did that happen? That reflection could lead to a solution. How could it have happened, what have we done wrong that the Netherlands has a judge's ruling on the protection of nature and of climate? That's not just a hobby of green parties. Human rights are at stake here. Such a reflection could give confidence in steps towards the future. But I think I'm gonna ask the informant again. That reflection didn't take place. Last time she said: well, I heard that parties are willing to find a solution. As far as I am concerned, this is also a form of reflection. But now I read in her report that there was no willingness at all, and neither was the reflection. Mr. Chairman. We cannot go on unless we have the confidence that there is a cabinet to form that respects the rule of law. To put it in the words of Tommy Wieringa, who wrote a very good column about Mark Rutte and the consequences of the Rutte Cabinets last Saturday in NRC: really, you wouldn't trust that man with the management of a petting zoo. No, the Party for Animals adds, let alone the leadership of the world's most cattle-proof land.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u245	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u246	Madam President. This weekend there was a colleague of ours at a demonstration in Amsterdam. He declared there that he doesn't recognize the government. I think that is a form of political extremism that scares me. Oddly enough, that kind of dangerous extremism is not the biggest threat to the political centre. I consider the political centre to be the whole of parties which, despite sometimes great differences in substance, are prepared to cooperate. But the political centre is now threatened by itself, by its own impotence. If we continue like this, we will witness an implosion of that centre, with dramatic consequences for the governability of our country and the confidence in politics. That affects all of us. Madam President. I thank the informant for her work and, above all, for her patience and the good conversations we have had. I have two questions for her. Has she had the idea that the content of this summer could bring parties together on the content, that this was indeed a hopeful, fruitful journey? Did she have the impression that the two writing parties took this process seriously as a prelude to substantive negotiations? What does she base that impression on? The informant has eliminated the last two majority options. It'll give you clarity. Now a minority cabinet needs to be investigated. In the meantime, we see that this becomes more difficult every day, that it becomes more difficult to reach such a minority cabinet. Still, the new informant has to work on it. Mr Rutte has tabled a motion to that effect. We shall support that motion. We will support this attempt. Everyone says they're reasonable. But the other one has to move. The result is dramatic inability to work together. When informant Hamer took office, we, as a group, proposed that it should not be up to us; we do not want to be the last blockade, no matter how much we see the differences in content. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. That remains the position of our group, even in the event of a minority cabinet joining. Meanwhile, the differences in content with liberal parties are large, sometimes very large. That is precisely what the content of the document shows. There is fundamental injustice and inequality in this country, but I have no idea how the two liberal parties intend to fight it. There is no plan yet to address the financial problems of tenants, to help low-income people, with precarious work, with poor health. But there is the intention to restrict the freedom of education. Young people are increasingly in debt and are less and less likely to have a permanent job, on an affordable home. I haven't seen the beginning of a plan to help them, but I'm kind of reading about how a school day is putting together, pretty much in detail. A tax reform is urgently needed so that we can get rid of the surcharges and achieve a fair distribution of our prosperity, of income, of jobs, of homes. There is no plan, but there is a plan to amend the Embryo Act. What are these priorities? I honestly don't follow. Mr. Chairman. This process is desperate for a breakthrough. We're looking for a breakthrough. Our country is longing for a breakthrough. The bigger the parties, the greater the responsibility. As I said, we support the conclusion and advice of informant Hamer. We will work with heart and soul for our substantive agenda, for what we consider important and for what we believe must be done. We will not shy away from the debate on fundamental freedoms. At the same time, we will always seek this cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u247	Thank you, Mr Segers. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen... I see that Mr Van Houwelingen wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u248	A brief interruption because my colleague was cited. My colleague referred to a tradition that exists in this country: civil disobedience from the left. You should know that. Greenpeace does that all the time. You can make it whatever you want, but this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u249	This is more of a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u250	But I want to respond to it in terms of content. After all, it is an extremely serious moment when you say: we do not recognise the government. What's the government? What is our democratic rule of law? What is parliamentary democracy? That is our last dike, our last hope against disorder, chaos and civil war. It's so dramatic. This is the place where you settle disputes. This is where you fight them out, with words. When you get up with people who are already angry, with people who worry in all kinds of ways and say "we don't recognize the government anymore," you actually say "this democratic rule of law is no longer ours." Then you throw out the means that we have been given to resolve disputes overboard. That's incredibly irresponsible. I think it's political extremism. I'm gonna get as far away from that as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u251	We are not going to have the debate on this. I've given you a chance to respond to it. Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt. I am sure that we may be able to have the debate on this subject at another time. Go ahead, Mr. Dassen. Then we come to Mr Van Houwelingen for his contribution. For a moment I thought Mr Van Houwelingen was coming, but first we do Mr Dassen and then Mr Van Houwelingen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you very much to Mrs Hammer. Thank you for your work and your dedication. Thank you for doing this in the last few months. Mr. Chairman. What's it like being a public representative with a missionary cabinet? I don't know. I haven't seen it. Six months ago, I was elected MP. I didn't think we should be talking about formation now. After all, Mr Rutte had said it shortly before the elections: no one will argue in favour of talking about three decimals in the middle of the crisis for six months. Agreed. In reality, however, the Prime Minister spent the whole summer just focusing on the imagery and not on the content, and that is behind the scenes. We watched the same movie all summer, because the formation looked like Groundhog Day: we've been living the same day for months. At first, there seemed to be still momentum. It looked like cat in the bag. Two reformers started work: one of the VVD, one of D66. Okay, it went wrong for a while when it leaked that the negotiating parties thought the content was so important that they wanted to promote one of their biggest critics to a position elsewhere. They would no longer have had time to deal with side issues, such as answering critical questions from Parliament, and at least they would have been able to talk about the content again. Puss in the bag. The debate on 1 April also brought great ideas and promises: transparency, a new culture of governance, a broad agreement. Beautiful, cat in the bag. And Mr. Tjeenk Willink couldn't have gone wrong, could he? Start from the content and then look for the parties. At that time, Mrs Hamer also pointed out in June that there were no irreconcilable contradictions in terms of content. We're almost there, I thought, because that's how it works in the Netherlands: building bridges, working together. Puss in the bag. VVD and D66 were going to write a test of a start to a design of a possible coalition agreement. They did that nicely in the summer luwte, away from the imagery. At least we had that illusion back then. GroenLinks and PvdA then came out of the Stadhouderskamer with a big smile. Puss in the bag. It was not the case that the Secretary of State's dual functions were ruined or a minister's switch to a lobby company. I could have imagined that. No, what pale? That is what I read in the report of informant Hamer: the parties have not been able to let go of the image. There was the play: the right did not want to rule with the left, while the left clearly indicated that it wanted to rule. Where did it go wrong? Reading the report, it cannot have been the substance. I turn to the Prime Minister through you, Mr President. Did you exclude PvdA and GroenLinks for fear of your own supporters? Is consolidating power really the higher goal? It's about what you do with that power, isn't it? What we are looking at is a lack of leadership, a lack of will to shape change and address challenges. This country deserves a Prime Minister who uses his enthusiasm to shape the country and who dares to convince people of the accuracy of his vision, a Prime Minister who takes the IPCC report seriously and dares to turn his head in the wind to avert a climate catastrophe. What would be fantastic if the Netherlands had a prime minister who was not concerned with imaging, but with vision, because being prime minister is not the goal, but the means. Mr Remkes and his generation dared to identify problems and propose solutions, as was the last time in the nitrogen report. Have they not forgotten to pass this on to the next generation? As an informant, he may have a chance to make that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u253	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u254	Mr. Chairman. For more than six months, the Netherlands has been governed by a missionary cabinet, a missionary cabinet which, in principle, according to state law, can only watch the shop carefully. But precisely this outgoing cabinet is guilty of the greatest undermining of our fundamental rights that we have seen since the Second World War. These are fundamental rights such as freedom of expression. Think of the fake news police of Ollongren and the hunt for "fake news," or the right to privacy, the QR code and mass surveillance. The right to property is no longer safe; see the proposed expropriation of the farmers. And even the integrity of the human body is trampled upon by the mandatory experimental injections with enormous risks and side effects. Why is this happening? What's going on here? This vision document I have here is what VVD and D66 have published. What is more, it leaves nothing to be desired: more attention to combating disinformation, climate goals, a generous immigration policy, more EU and all of it. It's like reading GroenLinks' election program! But you know, that's also the real belief of these people. That's what they all believe. From cartel left to cartel right, it's one big pile of the same rhetoric and the same globalist and neo-communist ideas. It is precisely what explains why PVV and Forum for Democracy were already excluded in advance. So we cannot stress it often enough: it is not that VVD and CDA are actually right but because of the circumstances are always forced to go left. It is not the case that one prefers not to have immigration, less EU and no windmills, and out of bitter necessity and reluctance to push and push with the left-wing parties about so-called fundamental contradictions. No, it's not like that. The VVD is as radically globalistic, climate-obsessive and coronage hypnotized as D66. And D66 is as radically globalistic, climate-obsessive and coronage hypnotized as GroenLinks. There's no difference between you guys at all. Here, some more points from the document. Giving up the right of veto in the EU. Only negotiate with countries that support the absurd climate policy. Entirely admit refugees. More development aid and a focus on Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda. So that means the Great Reset. And in the meantime, of course, the cartel continues quietly with its own corrupt pocket pocket game that offers the job carousel. Last week, for example, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State suddenly became chairman of the lobbying association of energy companies. Let me just say once again: our Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State, which includes electricity networks, is still moving to the association of energy companies during her term of office. In no self-respecting country would this be allowed! It's a bit like Martijn van Dam, who, as Secretary of State, was responsible for awarding funding to the NPO and immediately thereafter became chairman of the NPO Council. No African dictatorship is doing this to us. It's unbelievable. And you guys are just sitting there sneaking around and looking at your phone, getting a high five from your friends in the press. Do you know what we are now most in need of? That you stop playing theater with this artificial around each other and pretend there are differences and contradictions. Just be honest with me that you all want that Great Reset. There's no difference. The coalition agreement is long gone. Klaus Schwab wrote it. You know, you better form that Build Back Better cabinet. You do that. Do what you all dream of, but give the Dutch people the chance to vote on 24 November, when the first four municipalities go to the polls, to give their democratic opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u255	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u256	Hello, Mrs. Hammer. The Netherlands has chosen and voted for the right of the middle on 17 March: 81 seats on the right. At least before the election, these parties indicated that they are in favour of restrictions on immigration and against priceless climate policies, want to invest in security and low costs for citizens and entrepreneurs. But the will of the electorate, who did not appear to be a relevant factor in this formation, which has been dragging on for six months. Two parties on the right were excluded in advance: PVV and FVD. But also the most realistic solution: the so-called Rotterdam variant of CDA, VVD, D66, JA21, possibly supplemented with SGP. Excludeing parties seems to be the new connection and that is sad. Instead of you, Mrs Hammer, sending those exclusionists into the hallway, they have been rewarded and are now allowed to move on together. Then I think it will be a cabinet of undemocratics rather than a democratic cabinet that does justice to the election results. And I also hear it a lot on the street from people who say, "But why can't it go over right?'. I'm trying to explain that, but it's hard. It is difficult for it to be considered impossible in advance. VVD and D66 have written a pamphlet, a treat: our promise to the Netherlands. I think it's more of a promise for extra misery, if you look at its contents. This is more in the area of more Europe, more environmental idiocy, more immigration, more government, more regulation, more civil servants and more taxes. If you read this like this and you listen to Mr Rutte who is making trouble about a coalition of GroenLinks and PvdA, then I wonder: does it still matter so much? Are those dolls that important? If you look at the content, couldn't he feel perfectly at home with this greenish view? Mr President, if it comes to a minority government, which is probably going to be given at the end of this evening, then JA21 is ready to negotiate on matters of immigration or integration, climate and EU, to bring in our wishes and shift the course to the right, even if only a little, so to give the right-wing electorate some of what we had achieved on 17 March, I thought. A minority cabinet can, I think, also work well for the new culture, which, as is often expressed and desired, means less closed, more openness, more support and also a healthy daily ambition for the leaders of that new cabinet, which is good for their character, so to speak, in order to get something out of the high tower and not be able to decide. Mr. Chairman. Let me finish with what I really hope for. On behalf of JA21, I really hope that those 81 seats will be put in place. Let us, as right-wing parties and as right-wing majority, cross our differences and do the same thing that a left-wing majority managed to do in 2007 to force a general pardon here during the formation. Let us use the electoral weight on our part too, and let us look at the colleagues on the right to do the right to do the right for the Netherlands, particularly as regards the forthcoming additional asylum influx. As we could see and read in the news today, there is an additional claim of more than 20,000 people from Afghanistan. You've got to imagine that! And that while we're sitting here with 11,000 status holders that we can't even house, because there's no houses for that. But these people are coming to Holland. There's a lot of that. We won't do that now. But there's a lot of work to be done and then I don't count the families. One final question to Mrs Hammer, if I may. Why did you not propose the combination of the six parties, so the current cabinet plus GroenLinks and PvdA, the so-called six-variant combination? It doesn't appear in your final report. That surprises me, quite frankly, especially after what I have heard today, so left and right. We thank Mrs Hamer and we will be in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u257	Thank you. That's a nice closure. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u258	Madam President. An experienced foreign diplomat recently asked me politely, of course while enjoying a cup of coffee, why this cabinet formation lasts so endlessly and doesn't get anywhere. He didn't understand. Isn't it true, he said, that the old coalition of VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union didn't break apart before the elections? Yeah, that's right, I reacted. And it is also true, he continued, that after the elections, the existing coalition does not, as it happens so often, have fewer seats, but has more seats with each other in the Chamber? Once again, I had to agree with him. But, so much so he asked, why isn't there just a serious consideration of moving forward with the same parties? That's right. That's a good question. I mumbled a bit about D66, who had won some seats, new leadership and as progressive a cabinet as possible. But I understood very well that that foreign diplomat was by no means convinced by this answer. Even after reading the report of the informant, the SGP continues to find it unsatisfactory. More than that: we find it irresponsible that the opportunity to move forward with the coalition of VVD, D66, CDA and Christian Union was prematurely wiped out almost six months after the elections. Madam President. I would also like to stress in this debate that the deadlock in the cabinet formation is not due to the large number of small parties. I would like to have said that before tomorrow someone spontaneously thinks that the country is asking for a firm electoral threshold, because the cabinet formation is taking so long. Among the underlying formations, it was mainly the exclusions by large parties that complicated the formation and the smaller parties were often part of the solution. What's next? Informateur Hamer rightly points out that, now that attempts at a majority coalition have been stranded, it is obvious to explore the possibilities for a minority coalition. We understand that thought. We do have a few questions. First of all, how is it not possible to have another "who with" discussion that ends again in an impasse? Two. How does the former informer view the relationship between the parties forming the minority cabinet and the other parties? My third question is: is it not advisable to set a clear deadline for this investigation? Mr. Chairman. In itself, a minority cabinet is certainly a passable way for the SGP too, a discussable option. It can also be a valuable impulse to look wider than just coalition parties. I read some warm comments about the fact that we should look less cramped at a minority cabinet in a report by a state committee called the Remkes Committee. How do I know that name? At the same time, I want to be very clear. If a party such as the Christian Union is put aside, and then at full speed to undermine the protection of vulnerable lives and reduce the freedom of education, then we thank you for the honour of taking a positive approach to a cabinet with such a programme. Madam President. Time's ticking. Many citizens are rightly concerned about the lack of progress in the formation. All parties in this Chamber have a duty and a responsibility to contribute conscientiously to the administration of our country, to be open to cooperation and not to lightly exclude other parties. That is also what citizens can expect from politics. That is why my group will support the motion to examine the possibilities for a minority cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u259	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Mrs Hammer, the queen of poldering. I can imagine that she has completed an assignment with greater satisfaction. Mr. Chairman. After Mrs Kaag's lecture last night, I thought: I'm going to pay attention to whether there's any love left between her and Rutte. I fear with great fear. Under the leadership of Mariëtte Hamer, a new foundation for a cabinet would be developed this summer, based on substantive ideas. Ten weeks later, it all turned out to be an illusion. It was an air castle. It's never been about the content. It was a lie, a mirage. It was a pity for Jesse and Lilianne, because they had dressed up like a kind of bridge class and stood on the school square with their fingers raised: choose me, choose me, choose us, two for the price of one. But in vain, because Rutte never chose them. He just didn't want them. No, talking to GroenLinks and the PvdA was kind of a scare to him. He would probably agree on the content very quickly after all. He had to serve them off for a misdemeanor: no need for numbers, period. Hoekstra still called out that as a cabinet they were not stable enough, while he was gluing the debris of his own CDA on a daily basis. In the meantime, he's gotten so much glue that they recognize him at the local GAMMA. Mr. Chairman. I imagine Mrs Kaag was a bit done with it. She had to vent her heart. What she saw was a policy of regulation and rustling, without vision. What she saw was indoors playing games with party political emotion. What she felt: The Hague was far too high in the cabinet formation. That is the same as saying that there is too much Rotterdam at Feyenoord. It's all part of the same thing. She concluded that much time was spent on what was written instead of what history might be if you were allowed to make it yourself. That made her uncomfortable. She asked herself if she had been too gullible. She thought it sounds rather naive to me that it was serious when it was agreed to work from the content. Mr. Chairman. In April, she strongly judged Rutte's politics, as she saw a pattern of forgetfulness and urged him to stop. When that didn't happen, she wanted to know how he was gonna fix that damage. I wonder if it wasn't Kaag who ruled her side by side for four years with Rutte. Hasn't she experienced up close how the Rutte cabinet, led by that Rutte, did everything in its power to conceal its own failure surrounding the supplemental affair? The position of rulers was more important than the suffering of parents and children. The image had to be managed, according to the leaked minutes of the Council of Ministers. What does it actually say about Kaag if after four years of intimate collaboration with Rutte you have no idea what he's like? You could expect more from someone who's spent her whole life trying to take care of diplomacy at the top level. It seems to me that it is rather essential to understand your interlocutor in the foreseeable future. And yes, sometimes a lot of coffee comes with that. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. When is Kaag gonna see that Rutte is the problem? D66 was the anti-establishment party of the Netherlands. Now D66 is the heart of the establishment. She does have the opportunity to break the system open and make it transparent. I address Mrs Kaag. You said it before and you can say it again: here we separate our ways. Let that take longer than ten seconds before you jump on Rutte's lap again. That's a lot more believable. I know, Rutte has 34 seats. But that's not 76. Then you immediately have a new slogan for D66: Release the Netherlands and Rutte fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u261	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of people say it's all going to take so long to form that. Of course, we all want a stable cabinet as soon as possible. But I saw that the previous formation lasted 225 days. Luckily, we're not there yet. If it is not to take us any longer, we really must have a new cabinet on 28 October. Well, I guess I'll just put that in my schedule. I have gone into politics to achieve something in substance and very specifically to ensure that the interests of today's and future generations of older people in the Netherlands are highlighted. I would therefore like to say a few words about the document on the main lines and the building blocks. Compliments, because I think that what is written on paper will not encounter many obstacles for most parties. Yet again I find little to nothing about getting old in the Netherlands. In Annex 2, the building blocks, there are 58 bullets with issues that need to be addressed in a coalition agreement. I have once seen a word with "olders" in it, namely the word "older homes." I can very well imagine that if the elderly read these pieces, they feel inadequate. And that's right. I say it once more: half of all adults in the Netherlands are older than 50, and we are ageing in our country at a rapid pace. This offers many opportunities, but also challenges. I'll mention a few. How do we keep our pension system sustainable? How does our healthcare stay affordable and accessible? How do we ensure that people can remain independent at home in a liveable and safe neighbourhood for as long as possible? And how do we ensure sufficient supply in the labour market in key sectors? These are all issues that you need to address from the demographic perspective. So my urgent appeal to those who are finally going to write the coalition agreement is: take this seriously. Because if we don't develop a vision of getting older in our country, and we don't divide demographic developments over all policy issues, then we can't actually make a realistic policy for the next four years, let alone for the next few decades. In the end, it's all about who, or who doesn't want and can form a cabinet with whom. Much has already been said and written about this, and that does not seem so easy. From the perspective of the forming parties, this may still be understandable, but does the Netherlands understand this? I don't think so myself. Our mailboxes are filled with messages from angry, sad and disappointed people. People are worried about their pensions, health care, safety, the climate and so on. The people in the Netherlands expect us to get out quickly, in the interests of our country. We can talk about it for a long time and point the finger at each other. I do not like it very much, but I have already indicated that, given the fact that we want to move towards a new, more open administrative culture, a minority cabinet is a good option. Mr Tjeenk Willink has also indicated that there will be much more room for dualism and an open administrative culture in this way. A minority cabinet and a general government agreement make negotiations with the opposition more necessary. In this way, all the votes, all the voters, are heard much more. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Hammer for all her efforts and pleasant conversations. However, I would like to ask her, through the President, to mention the right group name on page 2, so that the report goes into the books with the right facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u263	Thank you. I see the informant nodding, so they're taking it. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u264	Thank you. The carpet here is high-pole. I don't know if it's affecting other people, but I've almost tripped three times. Maybe we can take another look at that, as we walk back and forth a lot. This isn't gonna go away from my time, I hope!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u265	I have two tips: walk quieter, and we have in the aisle specially a zone that makes you not...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u266	Okay, that's good to know, 'cause this is gonna go wrong sometime. Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands, first of all a word of thanks to Mrs Hammer for her commitment and the report. The elections were 174 days ago. On 18 March 2021 I came to The Hague with the hope that this was a place where adult people pursue the importance of the Netherlands. In recent months it became clear to me that this place is more like the fourth grade of primary school Het Binnenhof. I've mentioned the sandbox metaphor before. I can actually keep my input short: we are pulling a dead horse. Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag are clearly not meant for each other, or, as we say in Salland or Twente, they are not going to snap. The lecture Mrs Kaag gave last night made that painfully clear. Mr Rutte was given a couple of big wipes, and also with Mr Hoekstra it is apparently evil cherry eating. Looks like it went from Kaagcoalition to saw coalition last night. What was the purpose of all this is a mystery to me, except that a bomb was placed under the formation. A new informant must now be appointed, Mr Johan Remkes this time. With all due respect to Mr Remkes and his enormous record, I do not see any added value in a new path of suffering. Many citizens also see the shameless torture with their eyes on. As far as I am concerned, when Mr Remkes is given the mandate and accepts it, he must be brief and effective. There must therefore be a hard deadline for a concrete result and it must not be another attempt at a possible agreement. Then we will be here to form until the end of the day. Apart from other parties, most of them are already excluded, either by Mr Rutte or by Mrs Kaag: I only have two questions to ask Mr Remkes to Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag. One: Do you trust each other and see a future together? If so, do you think you will be able to complete that future with each other for the next three and a half years? If the answer to question is no, the roads can be definitively separated, not only from Mr Remkes, Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag, but also from Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag themselves. Then release everyone and please let each other fall. Mr Remkes can then return his assignment to the Chamber. The people at home can then remove the red pencil they were allowed to hold in connection with the corona measures and can go back to the ballot box. If the answer is yes, then there must be formed as the wiederdelega, with the result a minority cabinet. Make arrangements on main lines and work with varying majorities in the Lower House. This does justice to the centre-right outcome of the elections and creates an active Chamber that will take part in deciding on the challenges we face. Because it's not like there's nothing else going on in the Netherlands. The covid crisis, the growing distrust of citizens in the government, satisfaction and reparation for the victims of the surcharge affair, the compensation of earthquake damage, the disappearance of the green space for data centres and distribution boxes, the farmers who are in great uncertainty about their future and a housing market that bursts: our country faces such huge challenges, that further muddling is totally inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u267	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Five months ago, as a new Member of Parliament, I held my very first debate, an infamous debate, which began to be called "the night of Rutte" in the corridors. It was also about the formation at the time. But the emphasis came on it couldn't be otherwise to lie on the old rotten administrative culture. In that debate for a moment, somewhere in the distance, there was an ieniamenia, tiny, watery glimmer of hope for another policy in our country. That hope was brought to us by Mrs Kaag. She spoke the historic words 'here separate our ways' and, according to her own words, put in the toughest parliamentary weapon, namely a motion of censure, because she blamed Mr Rutte for a lack of integrity. I agreed with her. Unfortunately it was of short duration, because within a few hours the separate roads had already found each other via an elephant path. That same night Mr Rutte walked here smiling away I say 'here', but I mean the previous House of Representatives with the words: I only have one hat, you know. He did so after a night of hard work to convince everyone that the MP, the list leader and the party leader, as well as the Prime Minister, are all doing their work separately. It was just a matter of putting on another hat. While the corona crisis continues, the climate catastrophe is already manifesting, thousands of victims of the surcharge scandal are still waiting for healing and for justice, the arts and culture sector is abandoned, the prince is celebrating a celebration where all the festivals fade away, a recovery plan for the demolition of the housing market and social lawyer in our rule of law seem farther away than ever before, children in youth care literally perish, and more and more Dutch people are worried about their security of existence, the formation process is ultimately nothing more than a shameful, political pot "Who is it?', that without content is directed by the man with the hat. At the moment, I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for her contribution, in which she has explained all this perfectly. The man with the hat, a man with power. Great power. He gave the CDA the order: Override function elsewhere. GroenLinks and PvdA: Would you please enter the negotiations as one group? Even that wasn't enough. Meanwhile, the Christian Union was allowed to sit neatly on the reserve bank. Last night we were told by Mrs Kaag that she has come to her senses. She would have been too gullible. Potential allies are excluded on non-material grounds. Meanwhile she blames Rutte for a lack of vision and calls his leadership one of zippers and rules. Ringing and arranging... But, Mr President, I don't want to assume for a second that Mrs Kaag is so naive. I'm just curious what made her believe that lying and cheating on the man with the hat suddenly when out of nowhere would be over. How can she convince us that in the future she will provide new, social and progressive leadership with that same hustler and controller? When we finally get to that content, I fear the following. This collection of people, I have to say, are not missionary at the moment because we have just had elections. We've had elections because they're missionary. I have no confidence that these same people can solve the problems in this country. It takes radical change. We heard it from the bottom of his heart today, it came from his toes: Mark Rutte hate change. In Mrs Hammer's report, I read desperation. That may not be her intention. Thank you, by the way, for your patience and hard work, Mrs Hammer. In Mrs Kaag's speech, I hear clear words about radical breaches of the status quo. The question remains, however, after this debate: how are we going to proceed? No one has been able to give the answer tonight. I'm not pretending to have it myself. But it marks a moment when we have to come to the sad conclusion that we have reached an impasse. Or that resolves itself by means of new elections? The new informant, the new formatter, will tell us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u269	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u270	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Hammer. The Netherlands has largely opted for right-wing policies, for a healthy economy, for security, for less immigration, for the rights of our farmers, for the Dutch industry, for building houses, for the catering industry, for the festivals, for a Netherlands without illogical corona measures, without testing society and without vaccination coercion, for a Netherlands where ownership rights are respected, where ambition is a virtue and where people who work hard can be successful. Now, for six months, a left majority cabinet has been sought. That is in itself a blow to the electorate's face, but the fact that parties who have resigned because of the premium affair have been holding the country in a stranglehold for six months now is totally unacceptable. As I indicated in June, the PVV, FVD, JA21, BBB, the SGP and Interest of the Netherlands together have 32 seats. Together with the VVD and the CDA these are 81 right-wing seats in this parliament. How is it possible that the VVD seems to have a great preference for a left-wing cabinet? Why is the VVD even interested in so-called opportunity inequality, a misplaced Climate Agreement and an attack on enterprising Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. During the HJ Schoo-lecture in the Red Hat, Mrs Kaag van D66 was very hard hitting the VVD yesterday. She gave clasp-and-ready what D66 stands for. That couldn't have been a surprise to anyone at all. But it cannot be that personal preferences hold our country hostage and that the importance of the Netherlands is subordinated to the wishes of left-wing minorities. Mr. Chairman. BVNL has already argued for a minority cabinet. Given the current deadlock and the express wish of the electorate, this minority cabinet should preferably consist of the VVD and the CDA as far as BVNL is concerned. In this way, majorities will have to be sought that do justice to the results of the elections and put the importance of the Netherlands first. BVNL will of course contribute constructively to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u271	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for five minutes. Then we can stretch our legs very briefly. Then we'll start again at 9:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u272	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u273	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say the following to the Chamber. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u274	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u275	The problem with the sound is solved. We have the pleasure of hearing Mrs Hammer's story again, so that it can also be heard outside. I think that's important. I call Mrs Hammer, our informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u276	Mr. Chairman. I'd almost say it's symbolic of this formation, just to do it all over again. I'm gonna do my best to do it the same passionate way. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to the Chamber that on 12 May you asked me to form along the lines of the content. You asked me that with a large majority in the Chamber. As I just said, I'm used to taking room motions very seriously. I have therefore done my utmost to carry out your mission. As I have just confessed, I have certainly thought in that first phase: does the Chamber know exactly what it has asked me? First of all, you asked me to analyse the major transitions and problems: a recovery plan following the corona crisis, which I later referred to as a follow-up plan, and an agenda for the democratic rule of law. You've already got all that. I said in the previous debate that I was sorry that so little was being debated at the time. Certainly, the recovery and aftercare plan contained solutions to problems that have been re-appointed here today. I would once again advise you to look closely at this piece in the direction of the General Reviews and to take advantage of it. Fortunately, the pieces were later used, when the piece of D66 and the VVD was drawn up. It was clear to me before the summer that the task which followed on from the substantive mandate, namely to then see which parties could react together on this basis, was quite complicated. After all, many parties of the present eighteen were mutually excluded, did not want to rule themselves or did not want to rule with the winner of the elections. Therefore, in the end, only six parties were left who were willing to rule and who were not mutually excluded. These six parties were in combination sufficient for a large majority, but without the parties being mutually exclusive, combinations of these parties were mutually excluded. That is why there was a danger of an impasse before the summer. VVD and D66 then offered to sit at the table together and now really form along the lines of the content. Together they wanted to make the choice to set up a document on the main lines and together they wanted to make the choice for coalition partners. They actually asked me only to accompany them. I indicated that I wanted to do so with the agreement that by mid-August there would be a view on the negotiating parties. Once again, in June, you supported this mission by a large majority. I found the summer period hopeful. A young generation of politicians has worked very hard on how that fits: giving and taking, through discussion and arguments about your differences, giving the other something, but also standing for the things you believe in. The answer to Mr Segers' question as to whether there was a time when I thought it would work through the content is: that was the time. That is why we were able to plan the talks with the other parties. I was hopeful that these talks would at least lead to negotiations with one of the two remaining variants at that time: the continuation of the current cabinet or a variant in which a coalition could be formed with GroenLinks and the Labour Party. For that I saw enough points of reference and also room for additions. And no, I never said that all parties think the same and find the same substance. I'm used to looking over it a little bit, no matter what we do in the polder. For example, I have looked at whether there are enough leads to start a debate, and perhaps to disagree, but to see if you can get out. Those clues I saw. That's what I mean when I talk about the content. However, the parties raised objections of a nature other than the content. These objections are not easy to reflect on a single argument or one obstacle that can be removed. This is a complex of political considerations, for which I refer to my report for further clarification. I tried to write it down as carefully as possible. I had already examined all the other variants in June and, as it is called, crossed out. Once again, with the six parties, I checked all the variants that you saw in the final report. I have noticed that there was no new variant that we could examine. I also looked, as Mr Eerdmans said, at the six-party variant that had actually been crossed out in June. It turned out to me that there was not enough majority in favour of further investigation at the moment. You also ask me about the Rotterdam variant. You know that must appeal to me very much, but I do not know exactly which Rotterdam variant you mean. In any case, the current coalition consists of the Labour Party, GroenLinks, the CDA, the VVD, D66 and the Christian Union. But I'm sure you didn't mean it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u277	A factual question from Mr Eerdmans or an explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u278	No, that is of course the famous kendoecollege from 2014... Then you have built up a very nice Rotterdam variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u279	I still love Rotterdam. It's been abandoned, as I just said. But of course, in view of the variants and the blockades that were there in the first phase, they did not reach the finish line. I believe that we have already discussed this in the previous debate. All in all, I have noticed that there is currently no majority variation. And then there is only one opinion, namely the examination of a minority cabinet. In that light, you should also see my advice. In presenting my final report, I have already indicated that I personally find this extremely unsatisfactory. But you also have to get on with it, and then you do get on with that minority cabinet. Hence my advice to investigate that now. You have also mentioned some of the advantages of this in the debate today, which relate, among other things, to dualism, a role for the opposition and so on. We have heard this before in the debate from the beginning of this formation. But I'd like to say something about that. If a minority cabinet, of any composition, is to begin underneath this stilt, then it will be very complicated in a Chamber with nineteen political groups to arrive at fruitful cooperation. I would therefore particularly like to give the new informant a good look at this fruitful cooperation. I also indicated this in the final report. Mr. Van der Staaij asked: can you give a guarantee that it will come out during that research assignment? Unfortunately, I have to say that I cannot give that guarantee. Fortunately, it is no longer up to me, but to the next phase. But of course there is no guarantee. Mr Van der Staaij also asked me if we could set a deadline. You know by now that my view of deadlines is that a date is only a date and that it can sometimes be suffocating. But I would like to give you all to make a bit of haste, because it has been long enough. I have indicated to you that I find the line between parties to work together thin. Honestly, it's thinner than I've ever seen it. I have also indicated to you that I am concerned about the relationship between the parties at the moment. I would like to say today that this applies not only to the middle, but also to the flanks. You are all the representatives of the people. Everyone is responsible for that. That is not just a responsibility of the six parties. My concern is also that if you own every seat you have, one of those seats will eventually lead to paralysis in order to govern with each other, there will never be solutions to the major issues that you are constantly raising here. That is why I expressed my concern and wanted to ring the bell with my report and, frankly, with the press conference. I have also given you some personal reflections and suggestions in my report to see how you could deal with this in the future and to evaluate a number of things. I would like to recommend them to you. Fight each other on the content, engage in the debate, stand up for the things you care about, stand up for the people you do it all for; that's totally fine. I was and am a great fan of that debate, of the profession of representative of the people. That's why I'm proud to have done that myself for 16 years. It's a beautiful and combative business. And yet at some point you have to bridge the differences, no matter how hard you fight for your ideals. I therefore hope that the next stage will lead to real negotiations between the parties. I'd like to thank you for your assignment. It took longer than I expected and thought. Anyway, I hope that this phase will eventually also help to get through the next phase well. There is a very responsible task ahead of you. Our parliamentary democracy is in your hands. Be careful with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u280	Thank you very much, Mrs Hammer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u281	Also on behalf of the House of Representatives, thank you for your efforts and the fact that you wanted to provide information here. Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term. A number of Members have indicated that they would like to table another motion. I'll see if there's a need. Mr Rutte had already tabled a motion. I'm looking at Mrs Kaag. I don't think she has that need. Mr Wilders does. And Mrs. Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u282	Mr. Chairman. I have another question for the informant. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u283	I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u284	First of all, I forgot to say in my speech: thank you for your efforts and your patience. I would have asked if I could guess the answer, but I would like to hear from you whether there has been any reflection on the major problems we face throughout the process. Has there been an analysis or an attempt to analyse how it happened and what else we could do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u285	I honestly believe that I said something about this last time. Last time, on the basis of discussions with all of you, you received an agenda for the democratic rule of law. There was also an analysis. From that analysis, you can see that there is reflection. When I look at the second phase, I certainly saw it in the conversation that was held between young and passionate. I do not know if all this is true in terms of age, but at least from my perspective it is certainly young and passionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u286	Thank you. When the informant just said that, I thought "the young, new generation of politicians": she doesn't mean Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag? Do you? The new generation of politicians, those were the seconds?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u287	In my final report, I explained in detail who the writing group was. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u288	You're referring to those people. Okay, then I get it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u289	Thank you. That really brings us to the end of the first term. I give the floor to Mr Wilders. He has indicated that he wishes to table another motion. Two even, I hear. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u290	Mr President, thank you. I had already announced the next motion in the first term. This motion calls not for Mr Remkes or anyone else to be appointed for a new round of information, but for elections to be held. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to dissolve the Chamber and to hold new elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u291	I would also like to see an opinion of the government before the vote, as it should be under the law of the state, not from box K, but from a letter, but at least before the vote. Madam President. Then there's the second motion. That motion is about "half the cabinet coup," as I called it. I think it is really incomprehensible that I cannot stress enough that nine months after the resignation of the cabinet there are still serious decisions to be taken. Many people in the country find this incomprehensible. I believe that we in the Chamber should declare that we do not accept this. That is why the next motion has been tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares that it is unacceptable for a outgoing cabinet to take very far-reaching decisions, such as the introduction of corona tickets, the massive admission of Afghans, the spending of billions in climate and the expropriation of our farmers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u292	Yeah, about that... I didn't turn on my microphone. Is that better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u293	Yes, very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u294	Good. Normally, it's common for the government to respond to motions. Only, the government is a missionary. If there are any new elections, it's up to the Chamber. It is precisely from our position as a representative of the people that I do not attach much value to the opinion of the government on this matter. It is up to each group itself to decide on this now. It's about our position as a room. I really don't think it's appropriate for the government to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u295	That might be an option, but I redrafted the motion. I have formulated the motion as a request to the government. That's why I want the letter from the government. It's my motion, so I think I'm going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u296	We will at least pass that on to the cabinet in that way. I'll see if there's still a need on the left to file a motion. I see that there are at least a few more motions. There is a motion from Mr Van Houwelingen from the Forum for Democracy and then there is another motion from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u297	I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the formation is wall-locked;]] [[noting that the desire for a new political governance culture is shared from left to right;]] [[Whereas the primacy of politics should be in this Chamber;]] [[calls on Mr Remkes to make a serious effort to examine the possibilities of forming a business cabinet with trade ministers instructed by the Chamber on the basis of varying majorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Houwelingen, Van der Plas and Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u298	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion, but I'd like to say something, if you don't mind. I think I have one minute left. My co-founder of JA21 always says: and so. You'd love to, but I'm not getting too happy about Mrs. Hamer's story. We had actually read that in the final report. After all, what you are saying is actually very worrying. You have indeed said this publicly, because there is hardly any possibility of coming together. I think that places a great responsibility on CDA, VVD and D66 to save us from a failure in this situation. I say "us," but of course we really mean those responsible who are still sitting at the table with each other. I think this is one last chance. It's five to twelve, if you look at the situation. Otherwise, Mr Wilders' motion will indeed become a reality: then we will simply enter new elections. I must tell you that this is what we stand for at JA21. But I think we still have to try to get a minority cabinet done. I have already said that we can make our contribution to this, but it must be done quickly before it becomes really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u300	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u301	That was more of a call to the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB, who also has a motion, and then to Mr Van Haga. Then I think we've had everyone who wants to file a motion. Yes, that's correct. I call Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u302	Thank you. I would just like to say that I share Mr Van Houwelingen's motion on a business cabinet. A motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the formation has been underway for 174 days but no progress has been made;]] [[whereas several parties regard new elections as inevitable;]] [[Whereas it is possible to examine whether a minority cabinet is an option;]] [[decides that if no new cabinet was formed by 1 November 2021 at the latest, the Lower House will immediately proceed to the issuing of new elections;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u303	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that personal interests appear to play a major role in the formation;]] [[whereas this is not in the interest of the Netherlands;]] [[invites the Parties to focus only on the content of the party programmes of potential coalition partners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, after almost six months of formation, a majority cabinet does not seem realistic;]] [[Whereas the ratio between VVD and D66 appears to be cool;]] [[asks a minority cabinet of VVD and CDA to investigate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u304	Then I have four seconds to say that I had a motion on a business cabinet, but that motion has already been tabled and I am therefore co-signing Mr Van Houwelingen's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u305	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. A letter has been asked for. We will, of course, see if that letter can get there in time, but I shall at least suspend the sitting for 15 minutes, so that there can also be some coordination. Then we'll see if the letter is there, or we'll vote immediately.
