ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	Then we continue with part two of the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	We're gonna listen to the Party for the Animals for an hour. We're gonna sit for that for a while. The first speaker is Mrs Vestering from the Group of the Party of Animals. You have 40 minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I will speak today on behalf of the Animal Party on agriculture and on nature, and my colleague Mr Wassenberg will speak on fisheries and animals outside livestock farming. Mr. Chairman. The intensive livestock farming is a multi-headed monster. A pile of huge problems. Nowhere in the world are there as many animals kept on a rug as we allow in the Netherlands. For economic reasons, we abuse animals all their lives. In our slaughterhouses 1.7 million animals die every day and you wouldn't even wish for your worst enemy, let alone defenseless and innocent animals. Not only animals, but also the climate, nature, biodiversity and public health are sacrificed for the short-term interests of the agro-industry. The emissions of methane from the livestock industry contribute substantially to global warming, floods and rising sea levels. Fine dust from overcrowded stables, zoonoses, animal diseases such as Q fever and a bird flu that can jump from animal to human and antibiotic resistance threatens public health. The production of animal feed for the bio-industry causes the disappearance of tropical rainforests on the other side of the world. Dutch cows actually graze in the Brazilian rainforest, where they are hijacked to grow cattle feed. We are losing biodiversity, which is dangerously little left, and the huge amounts of ammonia from livestock farming are causing a nitrogen crisis, which shuts down the Dutch economy and housing, but is mainly a natural crisis. While the stables are increasingly filled with animals, it becomes quieter and quieter in nature. Nature is vital. The biodiversity crisis is the biggest threat to the survival of humans and animals on Earth. Ecosystems are on the verge of falling down, and anyone who thinks that we can proceed in the same way with the current livestock sector is playing a life-threatening game. We not only destroy the lives of animals, after a short and often miserable life, but we also risk the lives of future generations. Children who cannot help it that the government fails to protect their future, but who will soon have to bear the consequences of it. Mr. Chairman. That is a choice, but we can also choose differently, so that we can save the lives of animals and make our lives and our children's lives more pleasant. The Party for Animals has been making this choice for fifteen years in the House of Representatives, and the bio-industrie must be stopped. The outgoing minister didn't make this choice, even though she knows it's not okay. That it is not okay that newborn animals are taken away from their mothers, so that people can drink milk that was actually intended for calves. That it is not okay that we use more than half of the land in the Netherlands for livestock farming, while nature is in tribulation. That it is not okay that the cabinet farmers keep telling them that they can continue with business as usual, while this is a dead end. Mr. Chairman. This budget ensures that all the misery remains the same. This applies to animals, to people, and therefore to farmers, if the Minister is to blame. Mr. Chairman. It is our responsibility to stop bringing problems upon ourselves. Let us solve them with political courage, because a radical change is urgently needed. Mr. Chairman. Not everything can happen. Animal husbandry has long reached the limits of nature, the environment and the climate. In the case of nitrogen, we cross the boundaries of what our nature can carry for decades. For decades our farmers have been put under pressure. They had to take the initiative to make things more sustainable and more animal- and nature-friendly. Farmers were told for years that they could mainly continue to invest with all kinds of expensive environmental techniques, resulting in huge debts. Afterwards, they were told at the bank that more animals would have to be added, otherwise it wouldn't be profitable. What kind of government are you? And if you do not have the courage to set boundaries, and if you always focus on this self-regulation that you know is going to fail sadly, then it is not the farmers' fault, but the failing agricultural policy. The fact that the Netherlands is the most densely stocked country in the world and has the highest nitrogen emissions in Europe is a political choice. The agricultural policy, after cabinet, directs less farmers, not less animals. Only the big boys are left. Farmers are stuck in this system, just like the animals, which are stuffed in increasing numbers in the stables. In 20 years' time, half the family farms have been forced to stop. But the number of animals has not or hardly decreased. There are now just two to four times as many animals crammed together in each stall, often without even seeing the light of day. They are in pot-tight stalls, with expensive, fire-threatening, technical equipment to reduce the emission of harmful substances. This is a long time since it is known that the investments would never be enough to meet the goals we are now facing. The cabinet knew, but gave advice after advice. The first citizens' initiative of 2007 "Stop wrong meat," proposing a 50% reduction in intensive livestock farming, was pushed aside. This while at the same time it was calculated by the Agriculture Economic Institute that intensive livestock farming should actually reduce by 70% in order to achieve environmental and nature objectives. But that report also ended up in the pile. Nothing was done with it. Eleven years later, the Environment and Infrastructure Council found that a shrinkage in livestock farming was inevitable, we want to meet the climate targets. They said, "Just start with it, because the longer you wait, the more annoying it gets, not least for the farmers." This opinion was also quickly put into a drawer, not to mention an opinion requested by the cabinet itself. If you get so many urgent advices, you're gonna have to deal with that, right? Then the Minister can't look away from that, can he? I would like to know whether the Minister regrets that she has not done anything with these recommendations, but has, above all, postponed difficult decisions for herself. And now she's leaving it to a new cabinet. The same applies to nitrogen. Think of the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. It was not designed to protect nature, but to create space on paper for the economy. It is thanks to brave nature organisations who saw through this plan and went to court, that the cabinet plan to continue with nitrogen pollution, ended up in the trash can. The Netherlands was locked. We had to protect nature. And what did the Minister of Nature do? She went to Brussels. Not to protect nature, but to ask if maybe we could delete some protected natural areas. Bleker tried the same trick in 2011. So the minister could have known it wouldn't work that way. How serious does it then take its responsibility for the protection of nature? And now the cabinet doesn't know how quickly it can spend the nitrogen space gained by the voluntary buy-out of livestock farmers on new permits. This goes from the rain in the drip, because nature only recovers when that nitrogen tap is turned off and not immediately opened again. Permanent shrinkage in the number of animals in livestock farming is the only remedy that works. But no, the Minister came up with a nitrogen bill, which doesn't do what is necessary. The Minister of LNV himself acknowledges that. How can we be confident that a new cabinet with the same parties will come to an adequate solution if it does not first recognize the core of the problem? Recognize that livestock farming breeds and uses more animals than nature can tolerate. We can't be the milkman and the butcher of the world, and we shouldn't want to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr Van Campen is putting in his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mrs Vestering also interrupted me because of her concerns about the use of that nitrogen space that comes close. I have drawn attention in my contribution to the PAS detectors, those 3,300 farming families which are currently in uncertainty because there is no permit under parts of their farm. How does Mrs Vestering see solving the problems of these people and these peasant families?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	That's a very good question. I think it is a bit of a silly question from a party that has itself caused this very big problem. And now to ask the Animal Party: how are we going to solve our problem? The fact is that we can't both save the cabbage and the goat and make difficult choices. This will also affect family businesses. Is that the party's fault for the animals now? No, because every day, six farms quit. That is the policy chosen by the VVD cabinet after cabinet. Mr. Chairman. To solve the nitrogen crisis, the negotiating parties would look at Flevoland as a place where farmers could move, because in Flevoland there would be no nitrogen-sensitive nature. Another ill-thought-out plan and transparent trick. First of all... Flevoland is not a kind of waste pit where you can dump anything that is polluting and what we don't want in the rest of the Netherlands. Second. Flevoland has the most fertile soil in Europe, so please let us deal with it with a little bit of economy. Third. Let's go solve problems, instead of putting billions of taxpayers' money into moving a problem. Mr. Chairman. Moving is not only on the agenda of the forming parties, as we read in the media, but also investing in expensive stable techniques: foolish, costly sham solutions that do not solve the nitrogen problem and also ensure that animals are locked up in pot-tight stalls all year round. You can't be serious! For years we have been discussing in the Chamber that we want to do justice to the natural behavior of animals and then you're going to lock them up even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	A question from Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you for allowing me to break into this speech that resembles a speech to the People's Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, where people usually speak for hours. I have a comment on nitrogen emissions. You say that everything is going in the wrong direction and so on, but may I point out that according to the RIVM emissions registration, nitrogen emissions have been halved since 1990 until recently? So it's going the right way. You keep a story like everything's falling apart. Everything's nothing; we're going to doom. But there are also bright spots, there are developments in the right direction. Would you like to acknowledge that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	In particular, I will acknowledge that we are having a huge natural crisis, a natural crisis which is also called a nitrogen crisis. The fact is, we can't issue permits. It's a natural crisis. Ecosystems are about to fall. This is because, year after year after year after year after year, we have emitted nitrogen that has landed in the country. That structure is now so enormous that it is going to cost nature its head. Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned a number of solutions. Moving livestock farming to the province of Flevoland, where I live, I am not waiting, nor are other people, nor are the animals, nor the farmers. How do we solve this nitrogen crisis, the natural crisis, now? Two important points. We must not do what is politically feasible, we must do what is necessary. And we're gonna have to explain why it's necessary. Doing what is necessary means buying out livestock farmers in a good way. We will have to take production rights from stopping farmers and we will have to encourage farmers to switch to sustainable plant food production. We must address the problem of agriculture in its entirety and be honest about what is needed: not everything can be done. We need to breed, use and kill fewer animals. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll have to explain why. Not because we have a paper nitrogen crisis, but because nature is falling over. Did we hear the cabinet once explain how bad nature is in this cool country? That there is now a black list of areas falling over? That if we don't do something, we'll lose unique plant and animal species and habitats forever? That old oak forests acidify and dry up and that young bugs break their legs in the nest, even in their egg, because of lime deficiency? Have we ever heard the cabinet explain the importance of nature and biodiversity? That losing a species not only means losing our species wealth, but destroying ecosystems? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is crying for leadership, for a cabinet that is honest about the causes of the problems and about the change that is desperately needed. By systematically looking away, the Dutch cattle and meat sector has become a giga industry that crosses all boundaries: environmental boundaries, natural boundaries, climate boundaries, health limits and ethical boundaries. More than 600 million animals are bred, used and killed every year in Dutch livestock farming. They are bred for maximum production. A cow in the Netherlands has been so bred that today it produces almost half more milk than 20 years ago. A cow now gives a bizarre 34,000 litres of milk in her life. That's a real exhaustion blow. The animals get udder infections, become crippled and are milked to the last penny. When the cows are about 5, 6 years old, they're out. They can no longer be transported to the slaughterhouse and are completely lost. But cows of 5, 6 years old should be in the bloom of their lives. Cows can grow up to 25 years old. What are we doing to animals in our country? Cows get about four to five calves in their short lives. They're taken away every single one of them after birth, never to see them again. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't really hit the cries of a mother cow whose calf has been taken away. That says something. Mr. Chairman. What are we doing to the animals? A sow, a mother pig, is so far-bred in the Dutch livestock sector that she has extra ribs and nipples and can get more pigs. The result is that many pigs are born dead or come into the world weak or miserable, and then die quickly of weakening or hypothermia. You must imagine that at this time these dams are held between metal rods, between which they can hardly move, let alone turn around. What are we doing to the animals? Chickens are sold as chicken fillet six weeks after they come out of an egg. There's really very little chicken about that. They're still chicks. The chicks are blown up and sink through their legs because they cannot carry their fast growing weight and they have reached the optimal weight for as much meat as possible for the barbecue. But hey, what does the Minister care if they can't stand on their feet if you can put tens of thousands of animals, tens of thousands of chicks, into a stable at the same time? No one's gonna see it. And when someone sees it and films it, the Netherlands is terrified of what is happening in the Dutch livestock sector. Mr. Chairman. What are we doing to the goats? In recent years, goat farming has been able to make a lot of money from the production of goat's milk and goat's cheese. But also for this reason, in order to produce milk, the mothers must first get the goat lambs. These goat lambs must then be removed after birth, because hoho, no, that milk is not for the lambs, but for humans. What to do with the lambs and goats? They are increasingly seen as waste. In five and a half years more than 10,000 newborn goat lambs were transported to the slaughterhouse, while according to the registration they were less than a week old. They were newborn animals who could barely stand on their feet, according to an old goat farmer. After the slaughter, they were taken to destruction. Does the Minister think consumers who buy goat cheese know this? Can the Minister tell the honest story about exactly what happens to goats, lambs and goats to produce goat's milk or goat's cheese? Meat and dairy are paid expensively. But what is the value of the animal in the Netherlands? We have long known that animals are not all protected in the same way. Why are we hugging one animal and cutting the other into pieces? Why do we pay hundreds to thousands of euros for one animal to take care of it and do we not have a penny for the other animal and ignore the legally recognised intrinsic value? The self-esteem of animals is completely independent of their usefulness to man. How does the Minister see this difference? Mr. Chairman. If you are born in the Netherlands as a chick, piglet, goat boy or calf, you are literally reduced to small money. Even the minimal rules that are there to protect you are not respected or even controlled. The NVWA, the organisation that should be monitoring this, is heavily stripped after the cuts and reorganisations. The NVWA cannot perform two thirds of its tasks due to lack of capacity and quality, with all the consequences. For example, there are whole sectors where the NVWA does not come to control by itself. Millions of animals, tucked away in stables, are left to their fate. Even the exact mortality rate isn't even recorded. The suffering is too great; the number of animals is too large. In addition to food safety, animal welfare cannot be guaranteed by the enormous pressure on the slaughter process. That is what the Minister said, but if the Minister believes that public health is the first priority and that animal welfare is a good thing, why does the Minister not consider the number of animals in livestock farming and in slaughterhouses to be appropriate to the level of supervision that it can carry out? Dozens of millions of forgotten animals languish in stables where no one ever comes. The suffering is so great that a change in the system is needed to deal with this. For years there has been a debate on how much or how little drinking water the suffering of animals begins. Animals that have to produce eggs on the conveyor belt where, for example, chickens hatch, the puffy chickens, have the same genes as their children but live longer than six weeks. If they were to eat and drink according to their needs, they would burst out of their joints and therefore suffer from thirst. Even this basic need for drinking water, this basic duty, is reduced to a maximum and the supervisor is not given any tools to act against it. The former inspector-general of the NVWA said that the longer animals do not receive water, the worse the animal suffering. Then you can explore for a lot of money at what exact moments this suffering becomes unacceptable, but it is better to make it mandatory that animals simply have access to drinking water. It's so obvious. However, this is still not settled. We are therefore coming up with a proposal. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the supervision in the slaughterhouses. Every day more than 1.7 million animals are hunted through the hell of the slaughterhouse. Tens of thousands of animals have been killed in the time I stand here. The NVWA looks at it and looks at it or doesn't even look at it, because there are far too many animals and there are far too few inspectors. In slaughterhouses, where up to 13 000 chickens are slaughtered per hour, the speed is so high that slaughterhouse staff do not have enough time to hang the animals on the hooks, to separate wounded animals or to intervene. Nor can NVWA employees properly check whether the animals are really intoxicated. They often do not have a chance to stop the slaughter line in time if an animal is not intoxicated or not bled. A chicken can be wounded, hanged half on the slaughter hook, miss the electric water bath and therefore consciously get a knife in her neck and drown alive in a hot water boiler even before she bleeds out. And no one can help. A year and a half ago, through the Old Hand motion, the Chamber asked for the speed of slaughter to be reduced immediately, but the Minister still failed to do so. This can't go on like this. Every time the images come out about this reality, about the honest story, people are shocked: is this really allowed in the Netherlands? The awareness and inconvenience in society about how animals are treated in Dutch livestock farming and in slaughterhouses is growing. And also the resistance against it. In addition to the fact that not everything can be done, it is not fair to pretend that there are no limits to the way we deal with animals. Almost 30 million animals die of misery already in the barn or during transport, but then you don't hear the minister about it, never. Do we hear the Minister on the 7.5 million chicks, chickens and ducks and on the 76,000 pigs, cows, calves and goats that are simply thrown away in the slaughterhouse every year? Do we hear the Minister about the 20,000 animals that have to be killed every year at the assembly sites because they are too weak, injured or sick to be transported further, or about the nearly 600,000 chickens that die during transport? In the budget now available, 0.16 cents per animal will be allocated in the coming year to promote the welfare of those 617 million animals. 0.16 cents. For comparison: more than twenty times this amount is allocated to the promotion of the Dutch agro-industry abroad. When is the Minister going to intervene? Or does the Minister insist on the strategy of "don't know what doesn't bother"? Will you stop this for once? What's the Minister waiting for? Mr. Chairman. The fact that animals cannot be dealt with today is well known, also in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Wijffels Committee pointed out twenty years ago that economicisation and scaling-up in intensive livestock farming have led to amorous phenomena. We need to radically review the way we deal with animals in livestock farming. Everyone knows it, but not everyone dares to say it out loud. It's up to politics to make bold choices. But even since the conclusion of the Wijffels Committee 20 years ago, the scale increase has continued. Why, I ask the Minister. Why are these recommendations systematically ignored? It also does not help farmers if you continue to make investments in a system that you know is socially opposed. Twenty years ago, the second purple cabinet promised that by 2022 at the latest, the animal's perspective and natural behaviour would guide animal welfare in livestock farming. Animals would no longer be adapted to the system, but the system would be adapted to the needs of animals. Animals should be able to show their natural behavior. They would get daylight and enough space to move well. This promise was repeated in 2007 by the Cabinet-Balkenende IV. Then don't come up with a plan against a legal obligation to pasture just after the Lower House and the Upper House have just adopted a legislative amendment that has finally laid down this twenty-year-old promise in the law. Do not come up with a proposal for a funnel where ducks can stick their heads in duck farming if the Chamber points out that it is not acceptable that ducks can never swim and stand on their feet all day long when they cannot. Come with a reduction in the slaughter rate, a plan against disease and mortality among the goats' kids, the legal guarantee of grazing, lowering the maximum temperature for animal transports and so on. In other words, help the animals. Now, why don't you take the Chamber's motions? I think that's the least of it. Or is this the new administrative culture the minister stands for? Better build something nice. Finally work on the protein transition. Come up with concrete objectives and measures instead of removing the advice to eat less meat from the climate campaigns of a fellow ministry, because this message may be sensitive to the sector or to politics. Help entrepreneurs and help farmers to jump into the opportunities that lie here. That brings me to a message from agricultural media. They speak of a crisis in pig farming. In Belgium and Germany there is an oversupply of pigs and, to the extent of disaster, domestic pork consumption falls every year, as we read in the Farm about the situation in Germany. In the Netherlands too, there is a risk of a surplus of pigs. Then don't come up with promotional campaigns to get people back on pork or support packages to keep the sector going, but focus on the transition to a more plant-based society. Because there is another reason why livestock farming needs to shrink: the problem of manure. We have more shit than ground in the Netherlands. That's not good for the soil, it's not good for the water and it's not good for nature. And what does the Minister do? It is going to ask for an exception in Europe to allow more manure to run out on land than has been agreed. Has the Minister of Agriculture forgotten that she is also Minister of Nature? Sanding against the edges of what's possible and what's allowed. Stinks for thanks towards almost all the government's independent advisory bodies. Here too, we need to keep fewer animals. The Chamber gave the Minister the possibility, through a legislative amendment by the Party for Animals, to introduce breeding restrictions such as that the Netherlands is not allowed to carry out more manure on the land than has been agreed at European level. Better to stop breeding now than to bring animals back to slaughter. I would like to hear from the Minister how she defends the fact that she has still not made use of this legal possibility for a breeding restriction in the light of the current state of the art in the field of manure and nitrogen. Or is the Minister waiting again for thousands of healthy young animals to be brought back to the slaughterhouse? Why didn't the Minister set up a breeding restriction? Will you stop pushing ahead and moving the problems? Stop waiting for it to solve itself. That's not gonna happen, and that's not gonna work. Let me get this straight. While the cabinet keeps repeating that public health is number one, this does not apply to measures taken by livestock farming. When it comes to zoonoses, we have been struggling with the enormous impact of the coronavirus for two years now. Then you wouldn't want to call it off about yourself again, would you think, yet effective measures to fight other viruses still remain out. The avian flu virus is grabbing more violently than ever before. Almost year-round rearing of chickens has not prevented more than 1.1 million animals from being gassed by bird flu outbreaks since the end of October last year. The situation in the Netherlands is worse than that in our neighbouring countries. Animals in certain areas are gassed preventively to protect hundreds of poultry holdings in the immediate vicinity, as outbreaks with highly pathogenic avian influenza in areas with hundreds of poultry stables are impossible to control together. This nightmare scenario led to the gas of 30 million chickens in 2003. People got sick and a vet died. I ask the Minister: what were the opinions at the time when the response to these terrible outbreaks was evaluated and how can we now face the same threat again? We know that it is the biggest nightmare of virologists that avian flu virus or human swine flu is transmitted to humans. How many more warnings does this minister need? Stop filling these stables over and over again. Avoid the expansion of poultry farms in wetlands and areas with many other holdings and therefore follow the advice of the Bekedam Committee. The cabinet says it is still considering this, but should now act as a precaution. The explosive growth of goat farming also shows that the government still does not want to understand the precautionary principle, while successive studies have shown that people living in goat farms have been experiencing pneumonia much more often for ten years. RIVM speaks of a possible new zoonoses. Nevertheless, the cabinet continues to await further investigations. Why does the Minister still allow the health of residents of goat farms to be at risk? Why does the government leave it to the provinces to protect the health of its inhabitants, or rather not to protect them? No national measures have yet been taken and therefore no precautionary measures are being taken. Are we talking about unwillingness or impotence? Because there is still no system of production rights to curb this sector, which has doubled the number of goats since the Q-fever epidemic. There is a bizarre growth, also in provinces with a goat stop. In Brabant, even further growth is expected by almost 30% in the coming years. So there's no goat stop. The outgoing minister also seems reluctant to implement the adopted motion to stop the hobby hunt for the hare and the rabbit. The Chamber had asked the Minister to do this at the beginning of this year. The population of hares and rabbits has decreased by 60% to 70%. They're on the red list. That was an important reason for the Chamber to end the hunt for these two species with immediate effect. And despite this motion, the Minister has opened the hunt again this season. The Party for Animals finds that unheard of. That is why I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Can the Minister also comment on the fact that the wild duck is seriously declining in number of breeding pairs? It has been 30% since the 1990s, but they are still being hunted down for fun. I am also considering a motion on this. Mr. Chairman. I told you for a while: nature in the Netherlands is in a bad way. Cabinet policy systematically runs counter to nature. Species such as the grouse do not survive by acidification, but the cabinet looks away and does nothing against the violation of our laws of nature. And in order to protect and strengthen nature, in addition to turning off the pollution tap, ecology must rise above the economy. Because without strong nature there is no healthy soil, drinking water or fresh air. The cabinet also seems to see this more and more, as the call for an integrated area-oriented approach, such as the connection of nature, water and climate events, sounds more and more frequent. This seems positive, but what is also needed for an integrated approach is more nature. And according to the PBL and Wageningen, 150,000 hectares of extra nature are needed in the Netherlands. Because on paper we can say that we are sticking to the UN biodiversity targets, but in reality we are seriously failing. We do this not only in quality, but also because we count ourselves rich with nature that does not exist at all. Can the Minister provide a new nature map without this romantic accounting? The little bit of nature we have left isn't very good. The Minister of Nature may care, but we'd rather she did something about it. Fortunately, we still have the islands of Caribbean Netherlands. Prime Minister Rutte is all too happy to show off this nature during international talks. However, such an honourable mention does not go hand in hand with good protection. Look at the Chogogo resort on Bonaire: no supervision, no permits and no insight into the impact on the coral. And new debacles are already presenting themselves. The possible arrival of a new cargo port and a fuel oil pier will affect the coral. But the Minister does not see these dangers at all: everything is going well, because the plans are in the making. Enforcement plans will come in 2022 and strategies to treat waste water will come in 2024. That is why my question is: how will the Minister prevent the aforementioned projects from affecting the coral? What additional measures will the Minister take until plans are in progress? Can the Minister indicate which other projects may pose a risk to the coral? Mr. Chairman. Internationally, the Netherlands also makes the most of it, by promising to stop deforestation during the climate summit. That all sounds nice, but as long as the reason for deforestation is not addressed, the protection will always be behind 0-1. For deforestation elsewhere, Dutch agriculture is one of the largest global co-causers. How is the Minister going to stop the natural destruction elsewhere in the world caused by Dutch companies? Mr. Chairman. Nature is not only under pressure because of the fragmentation, through the buy-out to agriculture and through the suffocation under the nitrogen blanket, but also the use of the poison spray is disastrous for animals and nature. The minister promised the neighbors that it would be radically different with poison. Public health was on one. But all this time, small groups of concerned citizens, such as Meten=Knowledge and Bollenboos, have had to solve the protection of the neighbors themselves. The neighbor with his poison syringe had to send an app if he was going to spray. What does the Minister say to people who are rightly concerned about their health or their children's, if they live in such an area? They're gonna have to figure it out now. And even now that the Chamber has declared that we want to stop using agricultural poison, the Minister is too miserable to pick it up himself. Public health number one, come on! Of all the controversial agricultural poisons, arthropods is one of the most well-known. It is still for sale in the store under the brand name Roundup, the stuff with which everything is sprayed to death except the cultivated crop. No bug and no bird can survive there. Ecologically dead zones. Giforanny colored fields, not the kind of orange we're proud of. Glyphosate is probably carcinogenic and it is likely that it can cause Parkinson's disease, the fastest growing brain disease in the world. For the Animal Party all reason to withdraw from the market immediately any substances containing phenylalanine until it has been proven beyond doubt that it is not harmful to health, to animals and to the environment. Germany and Luxembourg have already announced a ban. It would have been so nice if the Minister had done what can be expected of the government: to put public health on the same footing. Is the Minister prepared to impose a ban until the manufacturer has passed all the tests, including those on neurological effects? Is the Minister prepared to impose a ban until she can guarantee that this medicine can be used safely? Not only because of health, but also because of the effect on insects, such as bees, it is necessary to stop this mess. The huge amount of agricultural poison used in the Netherlands kills these important animals in large numbers. In addition to agricultural poison, the wild has another threat: the honeybee. This summer I was on a working visit in De Biesbosch and I saw more than 2,000 honey cupboards from foreign companies: honey cowboys who get free play with a proliferation of bee closets, which create enormous food competition with wild bees in nature areas. I've already asked questions about this. I am also considering a motion on this point, unless the Minister can promise to stop the placing of honey cupboards in nature. Mr. Chairman. Not everything can happen. Everything can be broken, but of course it doesn't have to be. There are two ways ahead of us. We can continue on the current path with business as usual, or we can choose that leadership for change does not come from the Chamber, but from society. Because more and more people are taking this way of dealing with animals, humans and the earth no longer. Taboos are slowly being broken open. If you still eat meat every day, you belong to a minority in the Netherlands. The market for vegetable meat and dairy products is booming. More often than not, it is not the representatives of the people but the people outside this Chamber who make the difference. Concerned citizens who go to court to enforce the law if the government fails to do so, and successfully. People concerned who are concerned about what is being done to animals in livestock farming, who choose differently or go out on the streets to claim rights for the animals. We see young farmers taking over their parents' business and creating new earning models, so that they can sell their sustainable products on the local market. We see initiatives to make land more affordable for farmers who work including nature. There's another choice. The Cabinet and the Chamber, we are in a position to ensure that it goes in the right direction, not by shifting the problems away, but in a coherent way, by placing the long-term interests of man and animal, not the short-term economic interests of the western man and his money, but the long-term interests of man and his animal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	I heard Mrs Vestering say something positive about farmers and new earning models. Do I understand that it sees the future for farmers and that farmers will have a different, perhaps larger, role, for example in nature management? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	I see a bright future for the farmers in the plant protein transition. That's what the Party for Animals is making itself very strong for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	Then why did the Animal Party vote as the only party against a CDA motion that went this way last summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	The one motion that went one way? I'm sorry, I really can't judge that. I'd love to see which motion that was exactly. Then I'm sure the Party for the Animals had an incredibly good reason for that. It was not good for nature or not good for the animals; one of those reasons will undoubtedly have taken into account in a motion from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	Then something more concrete, on another subject. Does the Party for Animals also see a role for farmers in, for example, agricultural nature management or hardcore nature management? Does the Party see that for the Animals? Or do they only see this for, for example, land management organisations, or you name it? Do you see a role for farmers in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	I certainly think that it is also necessary for farmers to work more closely with nature. So maybe we can find each other in that definition a little more. Mr. Chairman. We think it is important that this minister, and also her successor, takes her task seriously, so that farmers and citizens can regain confidence in the government. We can choose the path of an agricultural system that is in harmony with the environment: with the environment, man and animal. It is the way of clarity for farmers, craftsmanship, healthy and sustainable food and appreciation from society. It is the path of cooperation with nature and the way out of the nitrogen crisis, the nature crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the climate crisis. Mr. Chairman. The budget, as it is before us, unfortunately stops us on that old dead end. That is why it will not be able to count on the support of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you. You did it four minutes faster than you indicated. My compliments on that. There is another question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	Of course, I'm not done with Mrs. Vestering. I've rarely heard so much nonsense in 45 minutes. It just hurts my ears. I do have a few questions for Mrs. Vestering. She's talking about those puffy chickens. She's talking about "those poor puffy chickens," "all stuffed together in those stables," "all wounds"; it's all one hell of a mess. But the puff chicken actually doesn't exist anymore. I assume Mrs Vestering knows that on 1 August 2023 everything comes under the single star Better Life hallmark and that a lot of companies have just been switched over. The Dutch chicken meat in the Dutch shops; all these chickens just get a run.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u18	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u19	I think it's weird. My question is also: why does Mrs Vestering use such a false frame, when she simply knows how many steps are being taken in the sector to keep improving animal welfare, also thanks to supermarkets? Why does Mrs. Vestering keep doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u20	First of all, the first question. There were a lot of them in one interruption. I'd count them as multiple, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u21	Well, I think we're gonna do something really fake right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u22	Yeah, you think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u23	I think it's a little close, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u24	Then there is one more: I think we live here in the year 2021 and not in the year 2023. Mrs van der Plas would be extremely adorned if she recognized that the way we keep animals in the Dutch livestock farms does not do at all justice to what they need, to their natural needs. It would be nice if we could make a fist with each other to treat these animals a little better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mrs van der Plas' seventh interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u26	Look, I am sorry that Mrs Vestering and the Animal Party, which is always so full of it that they are not at all against our farmers, have actually just kept a huge tirade against farmers for 45 minutes. She may be packing it in the system and how we keep animals, but actually it's just one big charge against the farmer. Because the farmer takes care of those animals. Mrs Vestering also said something about pneumonia in goat farms. But I also think Mrs Vestering knows that there have not been enough cases of pneumonia in the areas concerned to complete this investigation. So my question is, does she know? Why does Mrs Vestering say that everyone who lives near a goat farm is getting very sick, that the Minister has to do something with it and that the Minister has no sense of public health? While there are simply not enough cases of pneumonia found in the areas concerned to complete this investigation. Why doesn't Mrs. Vestering say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u27	I'll answer the first question first. Mrs van der Plas said that the contribution of the Party for Animals would be one big charge against the farmers. In all the fifteen years that the Animal Party has contributed during the debate on the LNV budget, it has always brought an action against the failing agricultural system. What we especially blame the VVD and the CDA, but also her party, is that constantly but is told that we can continue with business as usual. I refer to all those rules which she says 'the farmers have taken steps'. They have had to comply with this over and over again, they have had to jump through all kinds of hoops to end up in a situation where the PAS has granted 10,000 permits, which should never have been granted, and we are in a situation where farmers need to be bought out. That is the consequence of the failing agricultural system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u28	Then the goats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u29	Yes. I actually have to think a little bit about the interruption that took place earlier today. So that question has already been answered. I would therefore like to answer this question in the same way. Read the report carefully. You will see that there are risks not only of pneumonia but also of the emergence of a new zoonoses in goat farms. The minister says we put public health at number one. If you do, you make sure we don't keep four times as many goats as we did ten years ago when we had the Q fever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u30	Before I ask my last question, I say again: Q fever is a bacteria. That's a whole different thing. It was a terrible disease, of which many people are still suffering a great deal today. Lessons have also been learned from the Q fever. I am not going to go into the facts, because I had another question for Mrs Vestering. She said: we are committed to the plant protein transition and to supporting farmers who are going to produce vegetable proteins. If we do that for 17 million, or perhaps for billions of people, for the Animal Party, is that the biggest utopia of all how are those crops going to grow without animal manure? Sunlight and water is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u31	First of all, I will respond to what has just been said about Q fever, because I really do not think it is acceptable. There are so many people who are still suffering from Q fever. It's been ten years. You obviously learned little from it ten years ago, if you are still asking this question. I'd like to learn the lessons. I say put public health at number one. Then about the transition to vegetable food. It's nice that we're finally getting rid of the crazy food waster, the livestock farm. Then we can finally invest in Dutch farming on healthy soil, ensure that we work together with nature and that we can provide food for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u32	A small remark has just been made by Mrs Vestering that the CDA wants to go back on its feet and leave everything to the old. Then I would like to ask you what you have done over the past eight months, because I have been quite busy turning the Stevens around. How does Mrs. Vestering look at that? Does that make you optimistic, or does that leave you a little sour?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u33	I would very much like to see the words you have said about the fact that things may be different in agriculture also become true. I'm not at your table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u34	You're not sitting at Mr. Boswijk's table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u35	I'm not sitting at your table and I'm not sitting at Mr. Boswijk's table. I'll read some things in the paper and on the train. Then I'm very curious as to where this is going. It's not that far. Today we are talking about a budget of a cabinet that does not have a budget to solve the problems we face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Boswijk's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u37	It is true that the formation is still running. You may have read a little more than I have, because I haven't even read the whole part of the train myself. We have put forward quite a few proposals over the past eight months. I just mentioned one. We want to give the farmer a different role, not only because there are ecological challenges, but also because we see that there are economic challenges. We are seeing a new role for farmers. That is a role that you can sometimes be happy about, but I have a very strong feeling that it is never enough and that you will always be a little sour. To be honest, I'm very sorry about that. I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u38	I have just spoken very extensively about the suffering caused by 600 million animals in Dutch livestock farming every year. Did you expect me to stand here with a big smile? Did you expect me to give applause for what might possibly be done about the nitrogen crisis now, when cabinet after cabinet caused these problems? Sorry, I'm not very excited about that. If you can't see that with me, then I think it's a little justified. Then you can ask yourself and your own group how it has come to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr Bishop is through his interruptions. So much for your contribution. Then we will listen to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr President, I am making a preliminary announcement. I'm gonna compliment the Minister. I don't do that much. Most of the time, there's no reason for it at all. But if I do, it's serious. It's not coming right away. It comes later in my lyrics, so I'll keep it exciting, but I'll mark it up. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Crown Domain. We discussed this in detail during the King's budget. We heard the King say three weeks ago that he would ask again for funding for the Crown Domain Het Loo, but that that was still a whole puzzle. Since last week we know what he meant by this: a puzzle to drag into the millions grant but still close a large part of the Crown Domain during the hunt. So-called to give nature peace, but during the breeding season it is really the moment that nature can use peace and quiet.The Crown Domain is simply open. It is closed during the hunting season, so the Crown Domain is not closed to give nature peace, but to give the hunters peace and quiet during the hunt. No peekers, please. There is also a lack of funding for the Crown Domain. According to emeritus professor of notarial law Van Mourik the status of the King here is unclear. In 1959, Wilhelmina donated the Crown Domain to the State, on condition that the proceeds of hunting and forestry remained for its heirs. It's called, somewhat cloaking, "fruit use." Professor Van Mourik doubts whether it is legally sustainable for the King to apply for a grant for management because he is not a landowner at all; that is the State. And also Van Mourik doubts whether the King is really the fruit user, because usufruct exists in the grace of a notarial act. But as far as I know, there is never a right of usufruct on the Crown Domain. Recently we received the so-called gift certificate of the Crown Domain, but that is not the same as that notarial deed. Can the Minister promise that that notarial act will still be shared with the Chamber? If there is no deed, can the Minister also let the Chamber know? And can the Minister indicate how many acres the King can close on the basis of this application? Mr. Chairman. Then the avian flu. Animal ambulances and wildlife centres have lost a great deal of time and money to caring for the victims of the avian flu and the clearing of carcasses. The Minister has promised a one-off grant of 50% of the costs, but because avian influenza can be present all year round, dead animals need to be disposed of quickly. Is the Minister prepared to supplement the budget in advance while we are waiting for the opinion of the Animal Affairs Council on the duty of care for wild animals in need and to provide structural compensation for animal welfare and shelters for this work? I now turn to the subject of animals kept and start with the Dolfinarium. In France, the government made the sensible decision to finally stop dolphin shows. That is fantastic news for the animals there, but in the Netherlands it is not yet there. However, the Minister indicated that he would see to it that the agreements with the Dolphinarium were observed. How's the Minister gonna do that? And can the Minister promise that if the first deadline is not reached in 2024, it will be finished, finito, and that the zoo permit of the Dolfinarium will be revoked? Because I really have very little faith in the arrangements made with the Dolphinarium. I went there myself last year, at the invitation of the Volkskrant. What I saw there was really staggering. The animal shows would have been adapted, education would play a greater role. But I've seen what that means: dolphins had to swim hard in a concrete bin, with loud music in the background and light effects. What about education? An animal was shown with the statement: "Don't throw plastic on the ground, because it will end up in the sea." That's the education, the education that would justify the dolphin shows. Last month we saw at Zembla how the export of orka Morgan to a Spanish amusement park resulted in a drama. Appointments were violated and many of the parties involved, including the minister's predecessor, are now looking back on them with shame. I want to save the Minister from having to look back in shame on what is now at risk. Because if it's up to the minister, the Dolphinarium will soon be able to sell eight dolphins, two sea lions and two walruses to a Chinese amusement park. Yeah, they're gonna have to jump through hoops there, and they're gonna have to do tricks there, just like all the other Chinese theme parks with dolphins, and there's a lot of them. The case is still under trial, but I would like to ask the Minister when these animal export licences expire to say that no new export licences are being granted, especially since the Dolphinarium has already indicated that in the long term it will continue to breed with these dolphins. So it's not to make room, it's to make money. Sell now, later on, then maybe sell again: is that the new cynical earning model of the Dolphinarium? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the positive list. As far as my group is concerned, we can solve a large number of animal welfare problems at once by quickly introducing the positive list. That makes supervision much clearer and it puts an end to the dragging of exotic pets. In 1992, almost 30 years ago, the positive list was already part of the Animal Health and Welfare Act. 30 years ago! Apart from a lively talking circuit, it hasn't produced anything tangible yet. Does the Minister find 30 years of talking about the positive list long enough? When will that list be published? In response to questions from Mr De Groot, the Minister wrote to the Chamber that we would receive an update in the autumn. Well, today has officially started winter, meteorologically seen, so that fall is already not made. When are we gonna get that update? Why hasn't the Belgian system been chosen? In Belgium, there has long been a positive list for mammals and for reptiles for two years. That list of mammals came after the judge torpedoed an earlier version. That version was repaired and the list has been in existence for ten years. Why not use the Belgian expertise? Mr. Chairman. Then the trade in pets, the dog trade. The trade in pets exploded during corona. After the first lockdown many purchased animals were dumped just as quickly. The problem has existed for a long time, but has grown considerably last year. Three years ago, the Chamber adopted a motion from the Party for Animals asking for an investigation into a mandatory period of reflection for the purchase of pets. I think I filed that motion on 5 December 2018. If we had then taken steps, we could have prevented part of the suffering. So I ask the Minister once again: when can the Chamber see the results of that investigation? In what time can we follow up? After all, the animal suffering goes on, missionary cabinet or not. You order an animal as easily as a pack of kitchen rolls these days. You look around the Internet a little bit, you pick an animal and you pick it up. They are all stock photos with all very cozy families where the puppies are born and in which the cheerful owner seeks a nice boss for the puppies. But in reality, they are grey breeding sheds, often in former Eastern Bloc countries, Hungary is notoriously ungrateful and there is common bread breeding, where profit is not the welfare of the animal. The government isn't doing anything about that. Mr. Chairman. Earlier this year, NVWA's animal welfare inspector tweeted about the rogue dog trade: "The problem is far too big to go everywhere. Stop buying puppies. Then the crooked trade is over. Please retweet as much as you can." This illustrates the absolute powerlessness of the NVWA, boned to the bone. Last year the NVWA did not carry out any inspections on breeders and in domestic situations. This would be due to corona measures and other priorities, but what other priorities on earth? Because two thirds of the tasks are not the responsibility of the NVWA at all. The NVWA had already announced in advance that it would not carry out any controls. The message was implied: "Bad breeders, go ahead! We do not bother you with controls." On animal day we heard a promoprat of the NVWA in which it was said that the service would suddenly check for that European animal passport. Now what? Now there are stricter corona measures. Does that mean that there are fewer NVWA checks again? That's impossible, isn't it? Can the Minister explain what is actually going to change now? Can she give guarantees that illegal dog trafficking is now being dealt with? The Minister also indicated that buying an animal you have seen is not without risk. That is true, but does the Minister agree with me that ordering animals increases the chance of wrongdoing if it is so easy on the Internet? How will the NVWA and the National Inspectorate for Animal Protection monitor this usury trade over the internet? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally in this cube about the pets the sickening appearances. Dogs and cats are still bred with a snout so flat that they can't breathe properly and often die prematurely. Airlines in America refuse to transport dogs of this kind, because there is a greater risk of death in flight. They don't want to do that because of the insurance. There are also dogs with such small bulbous skulls that the growing brain no longer fit in and the animals develop epilepsy and other diseases. I understand it is not possible to prohibit the sale of certain dog breeds or cat breeds, but a ban on the sale of dogs with sickening external characteristics should be possible. I ask the Minister: is she prepared to ban the sale of animals with certain sickening appearances, such as those extremely flat snout or those extremely small bulbous skulls? I am considering tabling a motion along with my colleague Mr Van Campen on this subject, for which an interrupting debate cannot be good enough. But first, I'd like a response from the Minister. Then the exotic fairs. Mrs Beckerman mentioned it as well. During the last three years, five out of six checks on exotic fairs have been carried out. Why are there so few checks being carried out? Those alleged abuses are serious. Snakes are kept rolled up in food trays. Many animals show extreme stress. The Minister writes that she has seen unacceptable cases and that she has carried out a reconnaissance at animal fairs. Fine, but if the Minister sees that there are unacceptable abuses and that this is the case with virtually every exotic scholarship, then you can't leave the place until such a reconnaissance is over. Then you'll put enough enforcement on that, won't you? If you don't, you're gonna send out the signal... and you're gonna hit those animals. So, in concrete terms, is the Minister prepared to step up control and enforcement in advance while awaiting that reconnaissance? Implicitly, the Minister states that there is every reason to do so. Not only from the point of view of animal welfare, but also from the point of view of public health, it cannot be explained that these exotic fairs still exist. The Bekedam Committee was clear: stop markets with live animals. The Minister takes it off as a warning to the horrible web markets abroad, but also in the Netherlands we put a lot of different species together in small containers and on top of that there are traders travelling all over Europe. Does the Minister agree with me that, because of its international character, but also because of the large number of exotic animals, with sometimes unknown pathogens, such grants could be a danger to human and animal health? Let me remind you that viruses, bacteria and other pathogens were not missionary in 2021. They will not be missionary in the coming period either. Mr. Chairman. Now to the moment everyone has been waiting for: the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u41	I'm gonna have all the television stations in the Netherlands turned on. I can do that with the push of a button, and I will do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u42	No, no. My last block is about fishing. I am really starting with a heartfelt compliment to the Minister, because the Minister has fought in Europe for a ban on fishing mackerel shark. That's to be commended. That was the compliment, by the way. Small but fine: it was a heartfelt compliment. I hope that the Minister will soon receive a compliment, because I also hope that she will take steps on another topical issue: pain perception in lobsters and octopuses. I can see Mr De Groot nodding. Because yes, even those animals can feel pain, but still in the Netherlands it is allowed to cook crabs and lobsters alive. That's barbaric and extremely cruel. The death of these animals lasts for minutes. However, the Minister still does not want to prescribe that octopuses and lobsters are killed in a less cruel manner, with anesthesia. The Minister said about this in 2018: let me point out that the Netherlands is at the forefront when it comes to developing stunning devices for aquatic animals. Get ahead of me? On who? Last week we read that the United Kingdom has decided to include lobsters, crabs, octopuses and squid under the Animal Welfare Bill, such as the British Animal Protection Act. This is generally considered to be a step one in banning the live cooking of lobsters. The United Kingdom would not even be the first European country to have such a ban, because Switzerland has had it for a long time. Not a part of the European Union, but of Europe. Such a ban is also perfectly understandable, given the insights in the field of pain perception in vertebrates and invertebrates. As early as 2005, sixteen years ago, the European Food Authority recommended that these animals should be better protected. Lobsters have a consciousness, exhibit complex behavior and may experience pain, wrote the Food Authority in 2005. On the basis of that research, which was then sixteen years ago! .................................................................................................................. Since then, there has only been more evidence, now more than 300 studies. This means that additional research is no longer necessary for policy-making. This cruel practice does not fit in a civilized country. Can the Minister promise that she will take steps to ban the live cooking of lobsters and crabs? Together with Mr De Groot, I will consider tabling a motion on this subject in the second term, but of course we will wait for the Minister's answer first. Mr. Chairman. Then the eel. It's very bad. In Dutch waters, the number of provisions has decreased by 97% over 50 years. ICES biologists have been calling for a full ban on fishing for some time now, hoping that the species will be able to recover. Now the International Council for the Exploration of the Seas, which is ICES, also advises a complete stop on eel catch. This means that eel farms also have to stop, because all eels that are supposedly grown are not soaked, but caught in the wild and then fattened in eel farms. Those eel farms are not farms, they are fattening. As a solution to the decline of eels, the Netherlands has drawn up a recovery management plan. The idea behind it is completely crazy. I'm sorry, I don't have another word for it, namely to put out part of the caught young eel again. So you're gonna catch some provisions and then you're gonna let go of some of them. It's called recovery, but it's not recovery. It doesn't help either, and that's what needs to be stopped, ICES advises. According to the Minister, the European Commission has given the Dutch management plan a sufficient amount, but with the recent ICES advice this has become obsolete. How does the Minister view that ICES advice? What does she think of ICES biologists saying: ban eel fishing and eel farming, which is not eel farming at all? Does it recognise that additional measures are inevitable in the Netherlands? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. As a last resort, I am already a little over my time, the NVWA and fisheries controls, or the lack of them. The Minister writes in her letter that control and enforcement are difficult, because there are many rules and fishing practices at sea are not transparent. That's bullshit, isn't it? You don't believe that, do you? As if the police didn't dismantle a drug lab, because the drug production is not transparent and the rules complex! The fact that it is not enforced is simply because the NVWA does not have the place in order. There are two NVWA inspectors in the Netherlands who have to monitor 400 million kilos of fish every year. Yes, then you do not see that fishing rights are being tampered with, that unwanted fish is being thrown overboard and that checks in ports consist only of a single sample, not least carried out by the company itself. What can these two inspectors do? Yeah, see if the stamps are neatly inside the box, but that's not gonna work. The European Commission also believes that it is not working in this way, as the Netherlands did last year for this undersized physical and digital control. Chances are it's not gonna end there. Indeed, there is an enforcement request from NVWA, filed by Client Earth, stating that they will go to court when necessary. Can the Minister state what concrete measures have been taken by the NVWA in response to that letter of formal notice so far? And can the Minister undertake to put that enforcement of the fisheries legislation in order? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you. You have gone a little over your time, but you have to deal with that with your group. Thank you very much. Then we will listen to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy Group. I had rented this room until 3:30, because after that there is a corona debate. Of course we're not going to make it by a long shot, but I'd still like it if we could finish it quite clearly. I call Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some time ago, this outgoing Minister of Agriculture was still called "the assassin of the agricultural sector." Although the term'sneak killer' again led to the necessary outrage, it was, in my opinion, a very striking indication. Those who look at the dictionary see that the term "sneak killer" has not only a literal but also a figurative meaning. That figurative meaning is: "something that is not or hardly noticed and inevitably leads to the destruction or destruction of something in the long run." No matter how you turn or turn, whether or not you agree with the policy of this outgoing minister or of the entire Rutte cabinet, no one can deny that the consequence of that policy is, among other things, that our agricultural sector is being sneaking away. In 2010, when Rutte cabinet started, there were 73,000 farms in the Netherlands. In the meantime, this has decreased to 53 000 farms. So the Rutte Cabinets simply managed to destroy 20,000 farms in ten years' time. As if that were not enough, forecasts show a further decrease of 30% over the next ten years. If that can't be called a murder, then I don't remember. Today, however, one may wonder to what extent there is still a murder, because the attack on the agricultural sector is increasingly being conducted openly. When that disastrous nitrogen law was dealt with, the Democracy Forum already talked about the final declaration of war on the agricultural sector. But our warnings, which, with the knowledge of today, proved to be entirely justified, were flung away with great ease. According to the Minister, the objectives could also be achieved without coercive measures. Technical measures, such as low-emission farm floors, air scrubbers and low-protein feed, would be used in particular. But six months later, FVD also got right on this point. Unfortunately, I would add. For the PBL had to acknowledge that achieving these absurd nitrogen targets would be impossible without "an unprecedented transformation of the rural area in the Netherlands, with a large part of agriculture in North Brabant, Gelderland and Overijssel to disappear," I quote. In the meantime, it has been revealed that the outgoing minister is already busy with far-reaching plans to expropriate farmers. That's what the Demissionary Minister does. Let's not forget that she's a missionary because she filed her resignation when it turned out she was no longer trusted. Demissionary therefore actually means something like "not to be trusted." It would be appropriate for an untrustworthy minister to go to the department every day with shame to do nothing but look after the shop. But instead, this outgoing minister is working on far-reaching, far-reaching plans to take our farmers away from their land. That's pure stealing. It is also very characteristic that the legislative proposal is first submitted with the absurd nitrogen targets up to the year 2035. Then, during the debate on this matter in December last year, we were pretending that we saw ghosts and things weren't going that fast. And once that bill is passed, under false pretenses, and even before the ink is dried up well, the monkey comes out of the sleeve. It turns out that compulsion and expropriation are suddenly no longer taboos and that we are hiding behind the reasoning that we all find it very annoying, but that we have to meet those nitrogen targets. It's devious and hypocritical. And what does the outgoing minister say to those hundreds of thousands of farmers, including their employees, their staff, who work hard on a farm 365 days a year, day in, day out, weather or no weather, with passion and dedication, to ensure that the rest of the Netherlands, all of us, can enjoy vegetables, fruit, meat, cheese, milk, eggs and much more delicious food every day? Recently, I have visited several farms. What always stands out is not only that all these farmers work very hard, but also that they do so with the greatest possible care for people, animals and the environment. I continue to be amazed, positively surprised, at the way our farmers work, who are not satisfied with less than absolute top quality. Everything is being done to further optimize the processes. Thanks to their efforts, the Netherlands is proud to call itself the world's leading agricultural country. We are at the top of many rankings, in terms of innovation, sustainability and animal welfare. In the whole world, people are amazed at how we manage to manage that as a small country. It hasn't been easy to acquire that position either. It's the result of hard work, generation by generation, for centuries. Forum for Democracy says: cherish this fantastic sector, be proud of our farmers, ensure that they can continue to farm, of course in view of animal welfare and the environment. The farmers I have spoken to are only too willing to cooperate. They have, for many decades. A lot of them have already been asked. In fact, the only thing farmers are asking us for is a clear, follow-up policy that can be built on for the longer term and, of course, if possible, a little respect and appreciation for their hard work. Is that too much to ask? Well, apparently it is, because the cabinet does the opposite. Farmers are placed on the assembly line in a negative light in this country. I also heard it again during the introduction of various other groups today. It is as if they were evil polluters who would destroy our climate and nature. For many years farmers in the Netherlands have been overloaded with new rules, from phosphate to nitrate, then climate, animal welfare, land-use planning, fire safety. It is always new rules, which demand substantial investments, but which turned out to be for nothing just a little later because the political wind had turned again and new rules came in and everything suddenly had to change again. No respect for the hard work of our farmers, but smell for thanks. Anyone who thinks that, however painful that situation is for farmers, all this is necessary to save the climate or nature is wrong. In fact, anyone who thinks the Demissionary Cabinet gives a damn about our nature is wrong. If the cabinet cared about nature, there would be no CO policy or nitrogen policy at all. Climate policy is a major threat to our nature, not only because CO emissions create more greenery, but above all because many natural areas in the Netherlands, including even protected natural areas, are destroyed by megalomaniac wind turbines, toxic solar panels and polluting biomass plants. Trees hood in protected nature areas to set up heavy industry, for nature. This is not only against common sense, but also against all logic. Nitrogen is even a nutrient for trees and plants. As nitrogen emissions increase, this is good for trees and plants. However, certain species, which do well on a low-food soil, could possibly be reduced. But is that a problem for nature? No. It only takes care of other natures. The heath, which does well on a low nitrogen soil and could therefore disappear if a lot of nitrogen is emitted, is not even nature. What exactly is "nature"? Before people arrived in the Netherlands, there was no heath in the Netherlands. It's a cultural landscape. What we call protectionable nature is therefore largely also a political choice. It's important to keep that in mind. Another strong indication that this policy is not at all intended to improve nature is that the construction of homes, renewable energy projects and many other construction and construction activities are exempted from that nitrogen legislation. For everyone, exemptions are invented, but the farmers will bleed. How credible is it that, if this cabinet really thought that nature in the Netherlands was seriously threatened by nitrogen, nothing would be done about mass immigration? Farmers are forced to stop and their land is then used to build a million homes for people who aren't even in the Netherlands yet, but are expected to live in the next ten years. Now one may wonder why this outgoing cabinet would push through all these absurd and very radical measures if it were not in the interests of climate or nature. I do not have a ready answer to that, but it is striking that all these measures do not improve the climate or nature, but they all result in the government gaining more and more control and power over our way of life. It is, of course, a totalitarian state in the making that this policy will gradually place the food system under total government control and that the power of one of the strongest sectors in our country, the agricultural sector, will be greatly reduced. The farmers have a lot of private property, lots of land. They can even take care of their own food. They have a strong and independent position vis-à-vis the government. That is, of course, not tolerated by a government which itself pursues total power and control. The policy is also in line with the international agenda to which the Netherlands has committed itself. Under the guise of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, a global food transition would be necessary. Our current eating habits would be very bad and lead to climate change, water scarcity and loss of biodiversity, and so, if it were up to that globalist world elite, it would have to change radically. Those who read between the lines feel that if we were to meet these objectives, we would only be consuming food that was made in factories and genetically crafted to allow it to be CO-neutral, and that for a nice piece of meat or fish or for other fresh products there would be no room anymore, because oh, oh, what an incredible threat that would all be to the climate. Klaus Schwab's World Economic Forum also called for a global food transition and launched an initiative for food innovation hubs. Big deal, you might think, because the World Economic Forum has no democratically legitimized mandate and no regulatory power at all. However, our outgoing Prime Minister was present earlier this year in Davos, where he expressed his full support for this shady project, while it is completely unclear what its consequences are for Dutch farmers and our food supply. Why aren't my parliamentary questions answered? It's been over six weeks. I would have liked the answers to be included in today's debate. But my questions just don't get answered over and over again. And then there are plans to build one world city of 30 million inhabitants from all over the Netherlands together with Flanders and North Rhine-Westphalia. All over the Netherlands filled with towering office buildings and megalomaniac apartment complexes under the name "TristateCity."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u45	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u46	Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes. I have just e-mailed that, but that may not have come through any longer, which then comes from my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u47	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you. You could also say about TristateCity that this is only an initiative of the business community, but this plan has been presented to three ministries and has been welcomed to my great surprise. How does the Minister see the future of our food supply if the Netherlands becomes a large city without rural areas, without farmers? It is of course very easy to say that we can then import all our food. Because why use Dutch soil to graze cows when you can just as well import steak from the United States that was grown there in a pharmaceutical laboratory? But apart from the fact that many Dutch people prefer to eat fresh products from their own soil and are not waiting at all for cultivation meat or other genetically modified junk from abroad, there is a much more fundamental objection: the farmers provide for our most primary need for life, namely food. For our food, we must never become dependent on foreign superpowers. It is therefore of fundamental and even vital importance that our Dutch farmers are at all times able to provide the food security of all Dutch people. Does the Minister agree with me? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The Forum for Democracy notes that the current policy will inevitably lead to the end of the Netherlands as an agricultural country, speaks shamefully of the ruthless way farmers are treated, warns against the enormous risks of this policy to our food security and advocates giving our farmers room to continue to farm with a view to people, animals and the environment so that our farmers, as in the past centuries, can continue to provide us with great food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u49	Fine. Thank you. Then we'll listen to Mrs. Koekkoek of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr President, I would like to say something of a domestic nature. I've tracked the number of interruptions from the PVV to know how many are left. Mr. Mulder did four or five, I think, but I only did two, but now it turns out that the number of questions has been counted and not the number of interruptions. So that must be clearly stated in advance, because if you ask three questions in an interruption, you will lose all your interruptions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u51	No, that's not how we counted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr. Bishop also said something wasn't right. This can't be happening, of course. I've been sitting here the whole time, keeping track of the numbers. It can't be that I missed that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u53	We're just counting the number of times people say anything at the interrupting microphone, so per speaker unit, I'll just say. We're gonna count it for you, and if you're disadvantaged, you're gonna get a bonus interruption for free tomorrow. Thank you to Mr Van Meijeren. We are going to listen to Mrs Koekkoek from the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mr. Chairman. On 18 November, as the only representative of this Chamber in Brussels, I spoke with all the other national parliaments, the European Parliament, the European Commission and the French Presidency on the common agricultural policy and its implementation at national level. I can recommend it to everyone, and I would also like to stress the importance of interparliamentary and European cooperation here, especially since last week the European Parliament voted on the revision of the common agricultural policy. I noticed two things. The first is that everyone in Europe wants to move in the same direction: towards a new, sustainable way of agriculture, a future-proof way of agriculture and food production. Some countries are a little more progressive and some countries are a little more conservative, depending on the problems each country or region faces. That makes sense, because the transition to this form of agriculture is very far-reaching. We share many of these concerns. I'll come back to this later. Mr. Chairman. The second thing that struck me is how incredibly much we can learn from each other. In Poland, for example, the third consultation of farmers and civil society started last week. In Austria, small farmers and high ecological standards are the norm. And the rapporteur from the EP, like the WUR, pointed out that the key to success is the use of eco-schemes for an ambitious area-based approach. The Minister said earlier that the exchange of best practices is valuable, but does the Minister also regularly exchange information and best practices with other Member States, such as Austria? And are these taken into account in policy making? In the Netherlands, there is a fear that farmers will not be able to participate sufficiently in these major transitions. They are concerned about whether there has been a proper thought about what measures mean for the management of a farm. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: how is the Netherlands doing with the consultations on the NSP? How is dialogue between government and farmers strengthened in the Netherlands? How, for example, does the exploration of the agricultural agreement relate to the forthcoming National Strategic Plans? Should not the agricultural agreement, which aims to establish a long-term predictable and coherent policy, be the basis of the NSP, which will be rolled out from 2023 to 2027? What is the timeline for drawing up the agricultural agreement? On 8 December we will debate the NSP and on 1 January the first version will go to the European Commission. My question is this: is there still sufficient possibility of incorporating input from the agricultural agreement into national plans? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going back to trouble. A European agricultural policy, and hence the national plans for it, must satisfy three things. They must be ecological and economically profitable, and they must take everyone with them. This means that socio-economic aspects must also be considered. In many debates, therefore, we have already said that farmers are not victims of, but part of, the transition. They must therefore be encouraged and compensated for greening their earning models. It is striking that this problem is cross-border. It is not that people do not want to green up, but they are afraid of the consequences of that greening on the farmer's income and the unpredictability of the plans. We have seen this happen over and over again with the nitrogen crisis. This approach therefore does not work. However, the result should not be to lower our ambitions, which means that we will have to re-open our NSP in a year or two to bring it into line with the Green Deal and Fit for 55. Instead, the NSP must immediately become ambitious enough and be a long-term vision. Nevertheless, in order to ensure that climate plans are sufficiently reflected in the NSP, Volt has asked for an overview of all climate objectives affecting agricultural policy. We got that overview today. I would like to thank the committee staff for this. It's become a fine document. I hope that everyone in this committee will use this document to have a good debate next week on the NSP that is being proposed. I would like to add that we were surprised that such an overview could not be shared directly from the Ministry. It is true that some of the objectives are not yet 100% certain, but it is precisely in order to prevent new crises such as the nitrogen crisis that it is important that everyone, including the Chamber, has an early view of the certain uncertainties as to the sustainable objectives that agriculture is facing. Mr. Chairman. In most countries, as well as in the Netherlands, there are concerns about farmers' income and the lack of consultation. I have already paid attention to the latter, so now I want to focus on the farmer's earning model and the reduction of the premium per hectare, or the subsidies per square metre of agricultural land. Change is necessary, but the question is: are we, as citizens, also willing to pay a fair price for sustainable food? How does the Minister ensure that the transition in agriculture is accompanied by a fair income model for the farmer? Is this being taken into the NSP? And if so, can the Minister give an indication of the possible options on the table? How does this ensure a level playing field at European level? Mr. Chairman. Another concern is that every area, every region, every type of land needs a different approach. Unity sausage is not an option. That is why I would like to ask the Minister once again: to what extent does the Dutch NSP offer the possibility of an area-oriented approach? To what extent is cooperation with local authorities to coordinate and develop this approach? To what extent is European-wide information exchanged in areas similar to those facing the same problems? Mr. Chairman. Trust, predictability and information are key to success. Farmers must have confidence in the use of the money. It should become clear when the measure will have a certain effect, especially for new business operations, such as CO-reducing farmers. In this way, we can include farmers in the question of why they are going through what change and pay them a clear fee. All these things can be recorded in the NSP in the coming time. For that, I must be bold to look forward and have the ambitions we are meeting in Europe. We have to take people with us already. The Commission indicates that each NSP must have a clear strategy in the programme in order to adopt it. The NSP must have measures that are easily accessible to every farmer. The objectives of the NSP should be consistent with European climate and environmental ambitions outside the CAP. We can't see these things apart from each other. That is why, as the LNV Committee, we must keep a close eye on these different objectives. This debate shows once again how good it is to have a European information service for us in the Chamber in order to be able to monitor and monitor all the plans. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to pay close attention to the next step. The plans should be submitted in December, so the preparation of an NSP should receive the most attention. At the same time, it is also important to think about what comes next, namely the monitoring of implementation. This is already being negotiated in Brussels, while the Netherlands is still preparing the plans. A question for the Minister is: when will a link between objectives, result indicators, reports, checks and actual performance be further developed and when will the Chamber be informed? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u55	Thank you. Then Mr Eppink of the JA group21. Mr. Graus, what can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u56	We're gonna look back, 'cause I'm keeping a really good record. I am also chairman very often myself, and I know exactly how to do all that. I know exactly how it works, because I've been doing this for 15 years. Mr. Mulder has been interrupted a few times, among others by the chairman, and then it's just counted as a new question. But we had two questions left. This can't be happening. For example, I had a question for Mr Wassenberg, but I am sitting here for bacon and beans. I might as well go home. Then I'm going to listen to it all in the car, because I can't say anything here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u57	The interesting thing is that almost everyone is through his interruptions, so if I can take over your speech usage, everyone's in for bacon and beans right now. But we just checked through Debate Miss. That's where you can see it. The interruptions are indicated there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u58	But, Mr. Chairman, you interrupted Mr. Mulder twice and then the interruption was counted as a new one while he was interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u59	I just have half a rebellion here! I thought we'd go quietly to the next corona debate. But now the whole right wing is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mr. Chairman, I'll be sporty. Because I have good contact with my colleagues, I can also do it bilaterally, but it is not quite neat, because we had saved two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u61	We want to do it nicely. I hear Mr Mulder talking in the Chamber; perhaps he wants to think about his volume. We're gonna watch it face-to-face. If you're short-handed, we'll add to that tomorrow. Is that a good solution? Then you can ask the Minister additional questions. Yeah, think about that, Mr. Mulder, because I'm offering you a sacrifice you can't refuse, I'll just say it in country language.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u62	I'll think about the damages tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u63	It's nice with you, buddy. For 15 years, I've been dealing with this guy... well, okay. Mr. Eppink, it's really up to you to straighten up this debate, because we're in a slump. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After this entertainment comes my contribution. Ladies and gentlemen. The story of the Dutch agricultural sector is a success story with many changes. That didn't always happen on its own. After World War II, the Groningen PvdA politician Sicco Mansholt became the architect of the Dutch agricultural sector. As you can see, I've been well documented. This book, I shall not read it, because then we will be sitting here tomorrow, which is very interesting, also for Mr Thijssen of the PvdA, because then he can learn something from party history. Mansholt was aiming for the economically profitable family business. That was then 70% of all farmers had a farm that was less than 5 hectares. Mechanisation changed the countryside, as did the land consolidation, which as a major opponent produced the later MP Boer Koekoek. The agricultural sector became increasingly large-scale and more intensive. Mansholt then became an architect of the European agricultural policy, which was actually a sort of planned economy, with milk lakes, butter mountains and wine ponds or seas, no matter how large they may be. Mansholt was both praised and hated. In the 1970s, however, he underwent a kind of conversion, partly inspired by Petra Kelly, the later founder of the German Greens. "Sicco, are you coming a hippie," he was told in Brussels. But with the flowerpower, the idea of nature conservation also came into being. That's how the tension field was created that we're in today. Our agricultural sector is now productive and sustainable, with a low ecological footprint. Our farmers are flexible, inventive and innovative. Unfortunately, farmers are too often portrayed as bogeymen nowadays, as an enemy of nature. But some themes are also deliberately dramatized. Take nitrogen, for example. In Germany, the heath has an identical nitrogen deposition as according to the European Commission. I do not hear many complaints about nitrogen in Europe, but it would be dramatic in the Netherlands. I see positive trends. I'm a future optimist. The amount of nitrogen emitted by agriculture has almost halved since 1990 according to the RIVM emissions registration. Nitrogen emissions have a decreasing trend, says Minister Schouten in a reply to me in the committee debate LNV of 30 September. That's right; Mrs. Schouten nods. I ask the Minister: why should some 20 to 30 billion extra be spent on the approach to nitrogen until 2030, if the Minister himself admits that the nitrogen deposition has fallen in recent years? What's with all the panic? Mr. Chairman. I'm hopeful. There are several developments in the agricultural sector that prove that the sector is sustainable. The livestock is falling year by year. Unfortunately, the Party for Animals has now disappeared, if I see it correctly. The nitrogen deposition's dropping. Greenhouse gas emissions are falling. Surface water has a reasonable quality. The deterioration is mainly from abroad. I wish the cabinet would appreciate these trends in the upcoming National Strategic Plan. Mr. Chairman. Allow me to think with you creatively and constructively in this strategy. We also come up with good proposals. The key word is time. Almost half of the farmers say they want to quit, for example because there is no successor for the farm. Give those farmers time and offer them a fair price for their country and no dumping prices. I also advocate a ban on forced expropriation, because that is, as you know, a declaration of war that causes a lot of unrest. I hope the Minister realizes that. Farmers are also entitled to legal certainty. Look also at the combinations that are possible, in which farmers in the outskirts of nature areas also deal with nature management for a reasonable fee. However, these edges must not be constantly extended. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the impact on rural areas in their own right. Farmers are the backbone of rural economic and social life. Less farmers mean less work in the agricultural sector. There is a danger of impoverishment and deterioration in rural communities. Large countries with larger rural areas already have this problem. France therefore has a policy called 'L'aménagement du territoire'. In Germany it is called "regional Daseinsvorsorge." The countryside must remain attractive, because the gap between Randstad and the region becomes unbridgeable. The public authorities should continue to guarantee certain basic public services, even if they are not directly economically viable. Is the Minister prepared to include this thought in the National Strategic Plan? JA21 would like to make some concrete proposals in this direction based on experience abroad. The countryside remains viable thanks to sufficient farmers with, as Mansholt said, an economically viable family policy. This is the Bible, ladies and gentlemen, because that is the basis of the success story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you very much for this historical overview. Mrs Koekkoek has another question for you. He read the book, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u66	But no relative, I've seen. Her name contains an extra k.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u67	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's a k lake, all right. There is more than an important distinction between Boer Cuckoo and myself. Yeah, if you hear "Cuckoo," you're gonna have to stand by the interrupting microphone. I hear from Mr Eppink that nitrogen would not be a problem at all in the rest of Europe. That surprises me very much. Flanders has a Programme Approach Nitrogen, Germany was already addressed by the Court of Justice in 2018 to the fact that there is too much nitrate in groundwater. So the countries around us in Europe do have the same problems, and they have to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u68	Yes, but these countries take it less dramatically. They are going to develop a gradual policy, but they are not coming up with the major disaster scenarios that I have heard here today, especially from the left, where damnation and the end of the world are predicted. I'm not an undoing prophecy, but I've heard a lot of undoing prophecies today. In those countries, it is simply a policy issue that is resolved in a technological and political way. If you were to apply the Dutch nitrogen policy in Germany, in North Rhine-Westphalia, you would have to abolish almost the entire German industry, car and steel industry. I can tell you that even with a green government, that will never happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u69	I can imagine that very well, but it is precisely in Germany, as in the Netherlands, that a threshold is included in the calculation. That would indeed not find access here at the Council of State. The prophecies I have heard in the Chamber today are rather the limits that both science and the judiciary have set us. It may not be so much about doom thinking, but it is about sticking to the frameworks that have been created and that the Netherlands has to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yes, you can say that about the Netherlands, but I have read Germany's coalition agreement. I do not see any major, alarmist paragraphs on the problem of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u71	That's not the point. I am not saying that there must be some alarmist paragraphs, but when there is a problem in which both science and the judiciary define limits, then a democratic government should comply with them. It's very simple, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u72	It seems very simple to me. The Dutch economy is almost locked up by the nitrogen problem. That's getting worse. I do not see this phenomenon in Germany, because it is normally approached without all the great stories surrounding it and thus leading in the direction of dramas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u73	Fine. Thank you. Are you going to souffle Mrs. Cookie, Mr. Boswijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr President, there was something about the number of interruptions. I believe that a number of colleagues are indeed... we need to work together. I understand that very well!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u75	There's a question coming through the CDA or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u76	Something's going in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u77	Something's being put in at Volt's. Well, beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u78	That's what you get as a constructive party. Then you can work with each other. Luckily, it's something I've thought of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u79	Yeah, yeah, sure, sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u80	I would like to ask about the German approach, because that is what we were talking about. It was quite right to say that protests were also taking place in Belgium. We can differ about the alarm phase and the urgency that is felt. This is indeed felt in other countries. Why is it perhaps handled differently in Germany? Then I'll keep coming back to that court ruling. These are fundamental limits that we must adhere to in a democracy. It is not about the difference between the German and Dutch approaches, but about the boundaries of both science and the judiciary. I'm gonna try one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes, but it is a nitrogen directive, where the countries themselves can make the standards more stringent or less stringent. In other countries, this is done in a different way. In Belgium, it is. I know Flanders very well. I can tell you that the Flemish Farmers' Union will not allow what is happening now in the Netherlands to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u82	Very good. Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then we will listen to Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u83	I didn't know Mr. Graus had such a business impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u84	If he smells money, he's here!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u85	Yeah, when you've been hanging out for 15 years, you know each other. Mr. Chairman. Farmers, gardeners and fishermen are unsolicited on an administrative roller coaster. Although, if you're on a roller coaster, at least you remember which way it goes. The buy-out billions are flying over the table. Plant protection products disappear. The acreage premium is falling. On farmland, everyone seems to be able to make a claim. The SGP is convinced that food producers should assume their responsibility as stewards. Fortunately, on the various work visits we make, we see that many farmers, gardeners and fishermen operate their business in an increasingly sustainable way and that they have no problems moving along with the social desire and understanding of the need for sustainability. We need to move forward in this direction. This also requires public policy reform. I'd say know what's going on as a government. Challenge the craftsmanship of the sector, and where the market is still inadequate: provide sufficient support. Mr. Chairman. These three points I want to walk by, first: know what's going on. It is regularly observed that the distance between workplace and policy makers is growing. The same applies to agricultural policy. How, for example, is it possible that the draft action programme for the Nitrates Directive was so far removed from practice? It has indeed been adjusted a bit, but there are still a few bumps in that insufficient traces with the practice. Why wasn't one of the people from practice spoken to? In Natura 2000 policy, we need to know what is going on locally. The SGP therefore remains critical of strictly controlling absolutely critical deposition values. The planning agency already says: if we continue to do so, it will have major consequences when it misses its goal or, rather, when it does not even achieve its goal. Therefore, ensure better monitoring of nature development and, above all, look at its management side. My question to the Minister is how she handles this. Nitrogen models have recently been corrected on the basis of measurements in nature reserves. In the east, with more livestock, ammonia had to be removed and in the west, with more industry, along with it. Fine, but is it being considered whether we have a good picture of emissions and distribution? Are we going to have measurement points very consciously and in agricultural and industrial areas? Mr. Chairman. The second point is that we must challenge farming. The government is stalled by the accumulation of resource regulations. Look at the plant protection policy. Plant protection products become one by one prohibited. Telegraphers are concerned about the future: how should this continue with our crops? They spray more, because yes, seed coating should not be allowed, while competitors in other countries receive EU-approved exemptions. The growers fear resistance development because the choice is getting smaller. And then more must be sprayed for the same effect. Yeah, so it's a bigger environmental tax. They want precision farming to reduce emissions, but the admission policy frustrates that. A number of questions on this point. Is the Minister committed to reform of admission policy? Is she willing to grant more exemptions? Does it want to ensure multi-annual co-financing of practical trials? And will admission authority Ctgb have more capacity to assess alternative resources more quickly? I'm also looking at the nitrogen file. We should not only be talking about low-emission farm floors, but also about low-emission farm management. If you challenge that craftsmanship, you only book a quick and real result. Then we will have to work on target requirements, real-time measurements and an approach à la Brabant's due diligence score. The real-time measurement of ammonia makes big leaps and deserves top priority. How is the Minister going to give more experimental space and work towards a broad application? Thirdly, ensuring adequate financial support for sustainability. The billions for buying-up fly over the table, but installing the Lely Sphere, for example, provides a dairy farm with 70% emission reduction, demonstrably, while it is ten times cheaper than buying up. For example, there are dozens of other projects and systems. We'll meet them all when we're on the job. Sometimes it's small things that really have relatively big consequences, sometimes a larger investment that requires some financial support to get off the ground really well. It's good to help companies that want to stop, give them a hand. But bet first, as far as we're concerned, on perspective for keepers. I have tabled an amendment to shift at least EUR 50 million towards resource-oriented sustainability. Moreover, if the investment scheme from the European Recovery Fund is also used for source-oriented sustainability of housing systems, my question is this. I also have a question about the money for the provincial buy-back scheme. Where is the removal of the professional ban? Will the Minister also give some flexibility in implementation? Farmers are now pulling out, partly because of the strong hexagon accounting. Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing there's been a conversion fund. The signals I get from the field indicate that it is particularly welcome support for entrepreneurs who are already switching, but start-ups would not be enough. Is the Minister prepared to examine, together with provinces, interbranch organisations and banks, how the mobilisation of the fund can be strengthened? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a word about fishing. The increasingly ponderous question is: how do we give our fishermen a future perspective? When will we be clear about the reorganisation scheme? How will fisheries be involved in identifying new areas for wind at sea, so that they do not end up in fish-rich areas? And does the Minister also intend to review the unworkable landing obligation? Mr. Chairman. To sum up, we need to make our food supply more sustainable, but not outsource it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u87	Thank you. I hope this doesn't go away from my time, but I want to tell the people who are watching at home and sitting on the tube for the Corona debate that I am the last speaker here. But stick around, because there's a great story coming up. Mr. Chairman. It's nice to see everyone getting a little nasty and grumpy before lunch, because they had to eat. So you see how important food is to be able to perform well. Everyone ran to the restaurant to feed on all the beautiful products made by our farmers, and then everyone came back fresh and fruity in this room. So you see: without fuel, in this case food, you cannot function. Mr President, farmers, growers, growers, fishermen and citizens. Before I start, I would like to say that I share this input on behalf of Group Van Haga. Folks, it's 1944. A farmer's son who has been through this time has become 88 years old two weeks ago. During the war he lived with his parents and with six brothers and sisters on a farm in a peat polder against Amsterdam. The farm family had a dairy farm. Because the Germans had flooded the polder, his father had moved the cows to Weesp, leaving the mother alone, with seven children and one cow. The cow took care of the o so necessary milk and the essential proteins. Starved people from the city came to the country looking for food, but that was hardly there. The boy of that time became a farmer on the same farm and to this day he still helps regularly. He's 88 years old now. It is this generation that knows from its own experience how important it is to ensure food security. And that generation has done so: ensuring that there was even more hunger in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Back to the present, 2021. We have a created nitrogen problem. This created problem is very conveniently abused by a few parties, and they are also in this Chamber, who simply want to get rid of this tedious livestock farming. By over-regulation and misinterpretation of EU rules, we have created this nitrogen crisis ourselves. Nature would be destroyed, but even the PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment, states that it is not at all clear whether the exceedance of critical deposition values, i.e. nitrogen precipitation on nature, results in natural damage and, above all, what nature damage exactly. The PBL has been calling for a scientific committee to establish this for years. Why isn't there one yet, I ask the Minister. And why is it sent on KDWs when these are not linked to the actual state of nature? The farmer who makes us food, the farmer who manages our landscape; that farmer is labeled daily in this country as an environmental polluter, criminal, poisoner and animal executioner. This process has been going on for years. But we have three basic necessities: oxygen, water and food. Without one of those three, you're just gonna die. Our farmers take care of that food: good, safe, affordable, sustainable and always available. The fact that they are thrown away, including in this Chamber, as destroyers of soil life, water quality, public health, meadow birds and nature is a serious scandal. The farmer must leave and expropriation seems to be the perfect instrument for this. Expropriating, even forced, and taking away permits: you're not making it up. It's just pronounced out loud here. The agricultural sector has reduced a lot of nitrogen, ammonia, particulate matter and CO in recent decades. Pig farming, which is set up by some parties even as the big bogeyman, has even reduced 81% of ammonia. There's no other sector that made so much reduction. At that time, 67% nitrogen was reduced and 40% particulate matter. CO equivalents, i.e. methane, CO and nitrous oxide, went from 33.1 megatons in 1990 to 27 megatons in 2020, a reduction of almost 20%. How? Especially through innovations and through peasant smartness. Not by putting the heels in the sand, but by moving along and taking responsibility. Mr. Chairman. My fear for the future if we continue like this: farmers who throw down the axe; tired, crippled, expropriated, bullied, emigrated from misery. Farmers who are increasingly robbing their lives. Farmers who have competed away by real turbo farming in countries outside Europe, without additional environmental rules, without field edges and without grazing bird management. But with more plant protection products, with more antibiotic use, with less animal welfare. My fear is that fewer farmers, fewer meadow birds and, where there are still meadow birds, more and more predation. It is already an important cause of the disappearance of meadow birds. More urbanization. More tile gardens. More roads. More mega-sun parks. My fear is that green will be exchanged for grey. Citizens must continue to travel in order to enjoy the beautiful farm landscape. My fear is that crops have failed due to a shortage of authorised plant protection products and no alternatives to them. Lower yields in the Netherlands and Europe. More and more empty shelves. Tower-high food prices. People with a tight scholarship who no longer have access to fresh and healthy food. Food that has to come from abroad more and more, because lost production in the Netherlands is being absorbed in other countries, which produce full-bodied food for the growing world population. Fruit and vegetables will contain more residues of plant protection products, including those that have been banned in the Netherlands for many years. But, yes, we have nothing to say about overseas. Mr. Chairman. A country that does not invest in its own food supply is a country that is heading for decay. It is a process that has been going on for years, as we have done for many years. We are now seeing the consequences of this. It's not just farmers, it's fishermen who make us food. This sector is also being driven away. I see people looking at you who say, you always with your "run away"! Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... So many rules, so many framing, an ever higher cost, low returns and every day are labeled as the source of everything that goes wrong in the world. If you're not being literally chased away, you can feel it being chased away. How ironic it is: if other population groups feel undesired by framing and untruths, you are flying around the Chamber questions and the motions. Then we appoint national coordinators and throw millions to make society as inclusive as possible. Mr. Chairman. The fishermen are taken away from fishing grounds, for example by those horrible wind farms in the North Sea or on the IJsselmeer. We do not know at all what this has ecological consequences or caused health damage. Several researchers warn us of the potentially disastrous consequences at ecosystem level. Changed wind power and currents will eventually also affect algae growth, and that is the basis for all other life in the sea. Do our fishermen have another place in our waters? Are there enough North Sea fish left to feed us? Why don't we take the time to understand the profound consequences of these horrible megawigs? Why are we rushing on? The need for farmers to leave was confirmed last week when the Minister, without the participation of the Chamber, changed the objective of the scheme for the targeted purchase of livestock farms to reduce the nitrogen deposition in overstretched Natura 2000 sites. Any sane person would think that the purpose of such a scheme is to reduce the nitrogen deposition. The aim, however, appears to be to stop livestock farming permanently. No, chairman, those farmers weren't crazy on October 1, 2019. They didn't just drive their big tractors to the Malieveld. They were indeed threatened in their survival for improper reasons. The nitrogen of the farmers, their green nitrogen, is sold to big business and that makes it grey nitrogen. Grey nitrogen that unlike green nitrogen has no cycle. Mr. Chairman. Why don't we move on to targeted policies? And why don't we continue to target resources? Of course, BBB also wants farmers and anyone else to produce even cleaner. We see the most salutary path of innovation in the full box. I've also been in debates with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. How different will the industry be treated there than the farms in the LNV Committee! At IenW, the focus is on innovation, while it is my impression that innovation in agriculture has almost become a dirty word. If industry is to reduce emissions, nobody is talking about withholding or expropriating companies, let alone taking away permits and halving the number of companies. No, this is about techniques for filtering the air, techniques for filtering the water and so on. If a company "forget" to give up tons of ammonia emissions, well, then everything just goes on. An industrial company can just give up on its own. A farm is stuck in flat-rate standards and everything is determined by the government. The innovative power of the agricultural sector is enormous. We're known for it all over the world, and that's not random. We now have countless ways to reduce nitrogen, nitrogen strippers, nitrogen filters, dry tunnels, manure bacteria, air scrubbers with heat exchangers, cow and pig toilets, but because we stick to a rigid Rav list, everything is still, while the solution is so obvious. Go work with measurable goals! Measure ammonia emissions in the barn and beyond, and give the farmer the room to decide how to achieve these goals. No Rav list, no mandatory use of resources. The farmers are fed up with all the expensive investments that later go down in court, while the minister made them mandatory. Because of the bureaucratic and costly procedures to get on the Rav list, only large parties have the chance to innovate. How is the Minister going to ensure that small innovations also have a chance? Why is there such a big difference in the treatment of companies? Can the Minister indicate how many applications there have been for the Rav list and how many actually arrive? Does the Minister know the innovations submitted and does she also know why these innovations are rejected? Just a few more innovations to make it more sustainable. Using bees' sense of smell to detect plant diseases early. The self-driving solar-powered blueberry picker. The plant protection syringe with cameras, which only sprays where there is actually weed. Precision fertilization. Milk droids. Feeding robots. Manure robots. Producing hydrogen. Manure misplaced. I can go on like this for a while. Dutch agriculture is simply an innovative sector! This requires support in the form of grants. How does the Minister contribute to this? Furthermore, admission requirements hinder the arrival of, for example, autonomous field robots. We demand that there be continuous monitoring of an autonomous field robot. The principle of an autonomous field robot naturally conflicts with the principle of continuous supervision. Can the Minister make the admission requirements for this type of innovation more consistent with practice? Mr. Chairman. BBB would like emissions to be measured per holding, actually measured, and not only in the agricultural sector. We make a distinction between green and grey nitrogen. We do this because grey nitrogen threatens public health and the environment. It therefore calls for a different approach. Emissions are addressed through a combination of source-oriented and end-of-pipe solutions. I therefore ask the Minister not to close the door on "end of pipe" solutions. The background depositions should also be clearly visible. In other words, the nitrogen in the locks, which is produced in the autumn by the leaves falling into the locks, is then no longer attributed to the farmer. The nitrogen deposits on natural areas from other sectors and abroad are also included. Nitrogen emissions and nitrogen storage shall be offset against each other. That is the real emissions. The land-based organisations, such as Natural Monuments and State Forests, must find a much more efficient way of managing nature. They must also justify exactly what they have done with the many millions that are thrown at them every year. Accountability and achieving goals. The Ministry should also purchase social services from farmers. Not a system of subsidies, but a system in which the farmer is again in charge of his own business. The farmer makes agreements with the government, it is a question of supply and demand, and the entrepreneur can be a real entrepreneur again. We really need to pay for social services. What's the Minister's position on this? BBB also wants the arable sector to be able to do full work with resilient growing. As a result of the introduction of processing, there are more and more crops that are less susceptible to fungi, weather conditions and unwanted beasts. It now requires an investment that we will reap the benefits of later. Resistance to cultivation means fewer and fewer plant protection products are needed, but the Minister does not provide the co-financing requested. When will the Minister get over the bridge? Mr. Chairman. My final words in this term are for our food makers and flower makers: farmers, growers, growers and fishermen. People, you often think people in the Netherlands are against you. You think people think you're polluters and animal executioners, that you're trigger terrorists who ram down doors of government buildings and destroy the Malie Field when you stand up for your right to exist. You think people think you're against everything, you're just interested in profit and you just want to grow. It is also not strange that you think that, when you hear here in the Chamber in what way you are spoken of. Reality is different. Most of the Netherlands cherishes you. Most of it appreciates the fact that you're making our food and our flowers. We also increasingly buy directly from the farmer or at the fish stand. Most of the Netherlands is well aware that farming is not a fairy tale, and that it is hard to work day and night. These people know very well that you are the 0.3% of the population that makes the food for us, the citizens, the other 99.7%. Those people are very happy that on weekends and holidays they can cycle and walk among the beautiful meadows in a clean air. How do I know that? Every day I speak to these people and I am emailed by citizens, including people from the city. These people want to let you know through me that they also don't understand why a small part of the population, represented here in the House of Representatives, speaks so much evil about you, while you provide one of our three primary necessities: food. Know that. Know that the vast majority of citizens support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u88	I have not heard anyone speak ill of farmers today, but that is not what my question is about. I've been counting a little bit. I've been rotting. How often is the citizen called? I heard that word once. I wonder: what good is your story to the citizen? What good is it for the citizen if you selectively quote from investigations? You did that this morning in an interruption and you also quoted selectively from the PBL investigation. What good is it if you deny the problem of nitrogen, which will lead to further deterioration of nature? Who do you stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u89	I can tell Mr De Groot that I am the only Member of Parliament who always starts a speech with 'best citizens'. That's point one. Perhaps the other 149 Members of Parliament could do the same. Who am I standing for? I'm talking about the food makers here. These farmers do not produce for themselves, but they produce food for 17 million Dutch people and for even more people, outside the Netherlands. I'm not talking about nitrogen denial. That is always such a false contradiction that is being made here. I told you we have a created nitrogen problem. I am referring in particular to the nitrogen deposition. Mr De Groot and I have sat together at a briefing of the PBL, where the PBL has literally said that crossing the critical deposition values of nitrogen on those Natura 2000 sites, which is not saying anything about the state of nature, about what nature is like. The PBL doesn't ask for a scientific committee for nothing either. I want that one, too. And what comes out of there, we'll see. But there are so many assumptions being made here. We haven't spoken ill of the farmer here. I have just been listening for 45 minutes to a contribution from the Party for Animals, where it was only about animal torture and animal cruelty. It's not robots that take care of the animals in those stables. They're farmers, they're farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u90	So that's exactly what's happening. This morning was selectively quoted from an investigation. I'm answering and I can't hear you anymore. Now you're doing it again. "A limited exceedance of the critical deposition value does not directly lead to deterioration of the situation'. That's where you stop quoting. But then the PBL goes on: "The risk is limited and other pressure factors can be much more decisive." That's for sure. "If, on the other hand, critical deposition values are significantly exceeded for a long time, it is highly likely that the quality of nature will deteriorate due to nitrogen." So you are indeed denying the problem. You even pretend to have scientists behind you. Citizens don't benefit at all; nothing at all. Because that nature is just getting worse. Everyone wants to enjoy that nature with corona. Of course farmers take care of our food, but what is the point of telling these farmers here? It's about us having the debate here about how you're gonna do it. And then all I hear from you is that you're in denial and hardly come up with any solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u91	Well, okay. That's total nonsense. I'm sorry to say that. As far as selective quoting is concerned, please give me your speaking time. I'd like to talk here for three hours. Then I'll bring it all in. I'm fine with that. I've only had 23 minutes, so you picking things out makes sense. The second point is the other one that Mr De Groot is quoting. So it just literally says that we don't really know it at all: "Very likely." What's "very likely"? Yeah, we think we know, we have models. Speaking of selective quoting, in the same briefing, the same PBL said that if we want to produce completely emission-free, everything has to be done in stables and halls, with air filters on it. Then we're out of emissions. The PBL itself said that these critical deposition values, which we set here in the Netherlands and which we impose on ourselves, are far too high. As Mr Mulder said this morning: if we remove everything from the Netherlands, every boat, every human being, every animal, every home, every industry, then that nitrogen impact on nature reserves will still be too high. That says the same PBL. So if we are going to quote selectively: I know a few of them too! What's in it for the citizen? This citizen has something to gain from what I tell him, and they not only hear these doom scenarios of: the livestock is far too large, we stuff all these animals in stables and the whole of the Netherlands gets sick; the environment dies and the earth is destroyed, and we get Maastricht by the sea. I have seen party leaders from this Chamber with signs saying 'no Maastricht by the sea'. There will be no Maastricht by the sea at all! What kind of bullshit is that? That's what I'm trying to tell here. That's what it's gonna do to the citizens. Before we were in the room, they never heard it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u92	It will probably not be Maastricht by the sea, but Amersfoort by the sea. Just finishing up a little bit. I can tell you that your story is of very little use to the citizens who want to enjoy nature. The farmers too are not getting along very well. The effect you're aiming at...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u93	That Mrs. Van der Plas is aiming at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u94	... is that nothing is going to happen at all, because there is a doubt as to whether there is a nitrogen problem. "Created," you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u95	You mean, says Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u96	Says Mrs. Van der Plas, Chairman. So nothing's gonna happen that way. That is really only in the interests of the parties who make money from the farmers. Because if we don't do something, then in the next ten years, half the farmers will disappear. I will give you one more chance to tell us how you are going to ensure that we may have more farmers by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr De Groot will then have to pay more attention. I believe that for minutes I have put forward all kinds of proposals for innovations that will allow them to just start producing again. However, I think Mr De Groot is a selective listener, because that is not what he hears. It's always that little wiggle, that little faggot. Mr De Groot has been the director of the Dutch Dairy Organisation in his previous life. Then he said: 'We have to produce a lot of milk for the world market, choppetee! Growing!" That is what Mr De Groot has done. I am glad to be here in the House of Representatives and to be able to say something about this. What's in it for the citizen? I've just been here. I've even gone over my time. 16 minutes talking about a whole zipper of innovations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr. De Groot, and then we're done. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u99	Does he have a lot of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u100	Yeah, this is his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u101	This is a personal matter, Mr. Chairman. So this one doesn't even count, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u103	You are questioning my integrity, as if I had called for this dairy farming to continue. Again, you are quoting selectively. I said: 'There is 20% growth in production possible and 10% environmental gains. This can only be achieved by making dairy farming more sustainable. That's a must. Otherwise, you will lose your social and economic position." So again, you're just yelling. Farmers have very little use for your story, also for that innovation, because we have long seen that it is no good for you. And I still haven't figured out what you can do for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u104	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u105	Luckily, we still have the screenshots, I'd say. The farmers have so much to gain from me that we are on eight seats in the polls, plus seven. D66 stands for considerable loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you. A debate is not complete without Mr Van Haga's minute. It's now time. You have 60 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mr. Chairman. The majority in this house has determined that BVNL receives only half of the speaking time from other parties and does not have the right to vote in committees. That is why we only have 60 seconds to deal with the budgets of SZW and LNV, and that is not possible. That is undemocratic and it must also change. Democracy is not the dictatorship of a small majority. Mr. Chairman. BVNL, however, supports our farmers. Our farmers are the most efficient and sustainable farmers in the world. BVNL will fight hand and tooth against the expropriation of peasant country prepared by left-wing parties. We have often fought against, among other things, the nitrogen madness, which is based on wrong RIVM models and the kafkaesque reality surrounding Natura 2000 sites. BVNL is firmly behind our farmers, but I do not have a second anymore, so we leave the debate to Caroline van der Plas of BBB, who also speaks on our behalf in this debate. There's three more motions under arrest. I'll put it to the vote. For the rest, I find it a disgrace that our democracy has sunk so deeply. I've got three seconds left. In that I would like to thank our clerk Rens for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you. I don't know what it's about, but we take the compliment with a lot of gratitude. It's always good when the staff gets compliments. Thank you to the Minister for her seat meat today. We're hoping there's still some blood in there. We wish her much strength in answering the many questions. Tomorrow we'll go on whistling joyfully. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-6.u109	I'm gonna suspend, and then we're gonna talk about corona. Thanks to the Minister for the moment. See you tomorrow.
