ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	We shall then proceed with the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	I would like to give the floor to the Foreign Minister for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is a good practice that the government is kicking off this debate with a few general reflections, usually also about the changes in the world. I am here as a newcomer, but also as an old-timer. That also stimulates us to make some observations about our country in relation to the world. If I do so, and compare it with the last time I worked at the Foreign Office, I notice that we are in a reorientation which may prove to be far greater than we can or dare to overlook now. That also suggested Mr. Brekelmans in his maiden speech, where he had some raucous points. I should also like to congratulate him on this. A wonderful story, and for me a great degree of identification because we grew up in the same beautiful village, and by the way both of us started our working career on the same square, namely at Anton Pieckplein in the center of the Efteling. Mr. Chairman. Reorientation. Just one thing we have often talked about in recent weeks, namely the departure of Britain from the European Union. Do we actually see the consequences of this? For generations, we have always sought the balance between France, Germany and Great Britain. We were the main advocates of Britain's membership of the European Union. In fact, it is said that NATO actually created a kind of space for us in Europe to maintain a kind of neutrality by other means, with equal distance to our three neighbours, but all of this unlike before the war, possibly under the umbrella of the Pax Americana. Those days are over. Britain has moved to what they call Global Britain and we are looking for closer cooperation with countries on the European continent. With Germany, but more and more also with France, and that is getting used to. For many people, this is also mainly due to the fact that we have often, it is true for many, grown up with the idea that behind every Frenchman there was actually an old-fashioned guullist. And that's not only getting used to, but it has consequences. Perhaps one of these consequences is that, compared to ten years ago, we are less grumpy and less waiting on the sidelines when it comes to action within Europe, acting in the context of European initiatives. I'll take that as a profit. If we're talking about security, we're looking. NATO no longer offers that classic clue of the past, because conflicts also occur differently. Hybrid, what we see now in Belarus, we did not think about that at the time when NATO was established, and it could not. But there are consequences. The United States, quite rightly, is also asking us to do more than we used to do. And when it comes to that change, we are not talking about the political instability that you find in democracies on this side of the ocean and on the other side of the ocean and which are not without obligation. We may not even see all the consequences of this, but we feel that something is moving here. Then I come to a second observation, also based on debates that I have been allowed to have with you so far. We call on the rule of law, human rights and human dignity as few others. It's in our DNA. More than a century ago, the great Leiden professor Van Vollenhoven wrote that our country had a vocation in promoting the international legal order from its abstinence and its high moral content. That suits us, such a normative view of the world. Moreover, this is all the easier as you become more independent as a country vis-à-vis other powers and forces, far away from compromises and also far away from water by wine. Sometimes that feels good, although at the same time it sometimes has something non-binding. In addition, we must not forget that in earlier times we were a distant, neutral country for centuries. That's not all gone. Sometimes you see the cart tracks of the old days through the weary asphalt, as the great historian Maarten Brands once put it. I rather believe in the difficult path of alliances, including the compromise, including the willingness to run the risk of dirty hands. That's hard enough, because how do you find support for imperfect compromises in a society that tends towards absolute terms of pro and contra, of black and white, where how something feels sometimes weighs more than how it is? I refer to what the EU High Representative Josep Borrell said in this connection in a Dutch newspaper last week: "If you are always principled, you are rarely relevant." For relevance, the European arena is mostly our most important action perspective. Mr Sjoerdsma pointed that out; others pointed that out. This is where we find our way in the world to a great extent. That's where we make the compromises, with all the water and the wine that comes with it. Madam President. This Chamber is, as I see it, aware of this playing field. But that also applies to our ministry, where a selection corps of smart and dedicated employees is pressured to enter this playing field properly. I am glad that you also see the importance of diplomacy in this complex environment. Although it is time for a new cabinet to be created, it is, in that sense, a privilege to serve your Chamber from this department. Some of you have thanked me for that, and I appreciate that. I am doing this with all my heart and heart, and I am trying very hard, but I would like to say that if you were to point out that the next Foreign Minister is a little bit of an economical. It is important that someone has the time to build a network of relationships and trusted relationships. It's not going to happen overnight. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to address a word to Theo van Toor, a highly esteemed clerk who is leaving your Chamber. Yesterday, Theo, there have already fallen some serious qualifications and those sounds are also heard from the State Departments. I remember them from some time back, too. You're capable, sometimes harsh, but always confused by the delusion of the day. You could say that has to do with the many years of service, but I have such a suspicion that it is also a characterological given, which is rest and regularity. That is what this Chamber, I suspect, is going to miss. Also on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank you very much for the good work you have done all these years. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the questions and to the subjects raised by this Chamber. For your administration, Mr. Chairman, it might be useful for me to tell you how I planned to do that. One paragraph, i.e., I'm sorry, 'block' must be called 'geopolitics' and 'China'. Especially the first is a broad understanding. So there's a lot to be said for that. The second block will focus more on the European Union and security. The third is about the east flank, about which a lot of questions have been asked. The fourth is about democracy and human rights. The fifth is about Afghanistan. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the consular section, on which specific questions have been asked. Mr President, I shall begin with the first part, the geopolitical context of our foreign policy. Our historical reflexes, let's say our "forces profanes," are not so focused on geopolitics. We are from international cooperation, multilateralism, moral standards; geopolitics are all a little less. However, it is clear, as we also know, that geopolitics is bothering us and that we must therefore connect with countries so that we can stand together in that somewhat harder world. That environment is our primary Europe. Increasing strategic autonomy is therefore crucial. This strategic autonomy is not an end in itself, it would have been better if it had not been necessary in that sense, but it simply has to do with the need to increase our resilience and our ability to act as a European Union, and thereby contribute to the protection of the prosperity and well-being of the people who live on the territory entrusted to us. The Netherlands is actively contributing to this, as I say in reply to Mr Dassen's comments. We do this in the European Council together with other Member States. For example, we recently wrote a non-paper on strategic autonomy with Spain. Mr Eppink asked whether we could explore some less common coalitions. The answer is yes; this is an example of that. Under the upcoming French Presidency, there will certainly be attention to this issue of resilience. It is clear that the issues we are discussing today, China, strategic dependencies and security, will be high on the European agenda in the near future. Mr. Chairman. This shift from the centre of gravity to Asia is, of course, not just China, although it is most visible and dominant. Mrs Mulder is right, I think, to point out the importance of India, the world's largest democracy. I agree that we should take care of that. We have tried, at EU level, in the strategic agenda for the Indo-Pacific, to take as much care as possible of India as possible, and not just of Southeast Asia, ASEAN and surroundings, precisely to include India as an emerging power as much as possible. As far as China itself is concerned, we had a debate on China a few weeks ago, and it is clear that in the balance between open and contact on the one hand and protection on the other, relations have actually moved more towards protection, more from partner and competitor to system rival. That is, of course, a reaction to China's increasing assertiveness and, quite frankly, the growing discomfort over China's felt dependence. This is felt not only in the Netherlands but also in the European Union and in many other Member States. I hear that here in this room, too. It is therefore a good idea, I think, that attention should be paid to the risks of undesirable strategic dependencies; the VVD pointed that out. Mr Brekelmans has tabled an amendment to this effect, on which I would like to say the following. The cabinet takes the risks of undesirable strategic dependence extremely seriously. Policies are being worked on step by step, including at EU level. That is an ongoing process. There are several ministries involved in this. The Court still has a special letter on this subject, which is focused on it, which deals with this subject. It will come from my colleague for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. It is also aimed at the various motions that have been tabled earlier this year. So we want to do something about that. I would like to point out, through the President, that without structural funding in the budget, we cannot, of course, set up a task force. I can't. But I interpret the amendment as delimited to examining the possibilities for such a task force. This is the first step towards achieving that goal. But I cannot now commit to that end, given the circumstances, the coverage and the fact that the cabinet is what it is at the moment. That is what I am saying after such an investigation to a new cabinet and a Chamber to discuss this desirability. However, all the preparatory work I would like to say in anticipation of this is a sign that this is the route that we might be able to take at the end of the day. But I can't make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. I understand that he cannot make a commitment about something structural towards a next cabinet at this stage. I am very pleased that the necessary preparations are being made, as he has just said. In addition to his reflection, I would like to ask him another question. In my view, it requires less dependence on China and the handling of these new geopolitical relationships requires wide-ranging action. If different ministries and different departments within the government are involved, it is always difficult that one can point to the other or that it is unclear who is taking the lead in this. The aim of this task force is, as far as I am concerned, that the government cooperates in this and that several ministries are involved, but also that there is cooperation with the business community that plays an important role in this and with academic institutions. But somewhere the initiative must be taken and the urgency must be created. Does the Minister agree with me that this direction towards the final goal must be something that is being taken up widely and which is a matter of great urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's exactly how I see it. The Department of Foreign Affairs is, of course, a coordination department and not a department of substance within the meaning of the issues involved in this resilience. They have to do with economics, with infrastructure, with social affairs, with health. That is, by definition, a task force that focuses and orchestrates all these elements, so that we can debate them later. Did we put the right accents? What can be corrected? So I see that as a much broader activity than an activity of one department that gives an overview of what is happening everywhere and what should be happening everywhere. That's not enough. I therefore agree with Mr Brekelmans. That can't be done by the government alone. Weatherability also has to do with what you have in your own industrial potential within Europe and within the Netherlands. These are all subjects that play a role in this. So I agree. Mr. Chairman. We can say about China that it is a system rival, but of course we cannot go around China either. China will soon be the largest economy in the world. We will always have to look for dialogue and cooperation with a country of this size, of that power and that influence. There's no other way. This is also necessary for the stability of things. Human rights are, of course, a pillar of our foreign policy. We will continue to speak about human rights violations, including in China. To this end, we are also deploying the instruments we have, bilaterally, at EU level and multilaterally. And this year, for the first time, the EU human rights sanctions mechanism. This has already been used in response to violations of China against the Uighurs. But we also need to be honest and realistic. A change in the behaviour of a country such as China, with the forces that play a role there and the history that plays a role there, is something of an extremely long life. The world is also not homogeneous when it comes to judgements on China. We have seen this happen a few times in the debate on China. It is my firm belief that this action against China is crucial as long as it takes place at EU level, because then you will have combined power. China also respects economic forces. I fully understand the impatience of the Chamber when it comes to European policy on this issue, but when it comes to China, the European Union has shown a remarkable change in a relatively short time. In the meantime, countries that are concerned about China have become a small minority. That was completely different a few years ago. The European Union is also working on several country-neutral instruments, which will have an impact on the imbalance in economic relations with China. Mr. Chairman. It also plays a role in what the United States does. The United States is a constructive partner when it comes to this whole resilience. So that goes much wider than classic safety. Together with the European Union, we are working to ensure that there is sanction coordination, also to ensure that something comes up in the area of resilience. That Trade and Technology Council, it's really about something. That's where we're talking about what we need in the house. What is "we": Europe itself, Europe with America together or the Netherlands itself? This is being discussed in depth and in depth. It is clear that this cooperation between the European Union and America can and must make an important contribution to the resilience and strength of China's emergence. In this context, when it comes to America, Mrs Mulder asked about the Summit for Democracy. This is an American initiative by this President, and we are of course happy to contribute to it. Our Prime Minister intends to be present at that summit, just after sinterklaas, I believe. There are a number of side-events, where we like to try to play an important role. One is about freedom of the press and freedom of journalists. I'm hoping to be a part of that myself. I'm close to that, too, so I'd like to do that. So that is what we really want to do. We are also in contact with the organizers, with America on a few other topics that are going to play a role there. These are cybersecurity versus privacy, human rights in relation to technology; a number of topics that fit in with modernising democracies. Mr. Chairman. I also recognize the inconvenience we sometimes have when it comes to our dependence on America. Everyone felt frustration, embarrassment when the United States suddenly left Kabul and no one had a chance to change anything there for the better, to organise it better. We also said at that time that this was yet another example of how we in Europe should also be able to take organisational responsibility in such cases at certain times. Moreover, the United States expects us to do the same. In the past, when you said something about strengthening Europe, you were apparently against NATO. Those days are actually over. From the United States we are also being asked whether we can do our own thing, as I said. Successfully, we are working to bring the more responsibility that is required for this. As much as I appreciated the brochure, I would like to say in the direction of Mr Van Dijk, that this responsibility also includes investing in defence and strengthening our resilience to traditional threats. Of course, there are all kinds of new hybrid threats, but ultimately, Defence is also something that provides protection and is essential to our democracies. I share Mr Brekelmans' concerns about the new and hybrid threats. These are risks such as espionage, sabotage, all kinds of manipulation and unwanted foreign influence, not only from governments, but also from companies and knowledge institutions, which are often at least as vulnerable and at least as important. We need to do a few things there. We must increase the resilience to state threats. We must state when there is an infringement of interests. It is also important to develop a joint response framework. That brings me to Mr Dassen's question about an assertive international cyber policy. I agree with him that this is a modern threat that we need to be on top of. I believe that a subsequent cabinet can also build on those findings of the IOB. Mr Dassen referred to this policy review. It also points out that, when it comes to cyber policy and capacity building, we may be fighting a little above our weight internationally, and that has consequences for how we shape that in diplomacy to continue to play a role in it. Mr. Chairman. In this respect, Mrs Mulder's amendment on cyber fits in with our ambitions. We would like to play a role with international partners in the forefront of the digital security debate. Technically, we're good, too. You may have noticed it a year and a half ago. If you read that it is a Dutch institution that shows exactly what time someone in Russia enters the office, initiates the computer and launches cyber attacks in the United States, then the world is looking forward to seeing that we can. But if we can do that, then we must also give our hands and feet to it in cooperation and diplomacy. In this sense, I therefore see Mrs Mulder's amendment as an encouragement to further develop this ambition, and I would like to leave it to the Chamber to assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	There is a question from Mr Dassen van Volt. I forgot to tell you that I would like to propose that you all give six more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	I have only one clarifying question. What exactly does the Minister mean when he says that we sometimes try to fight above our weight in cyber security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	I didn't make that up myself, but I actually read that in the IOB report. In a number of areas, we are playing a rather prominent role in the international debate for a country that we cannot say is a small country, but we are not a large country either. It is striking that in a number of areas, especially within Europe, we are seen as a precursor, but that also has consequences. This also means that we are partly responsible for ensuring that other countries are involved and that we are organizing something of combined capacity, because we alone can have the knowledge, but we alone are not strong enough. It also has too little meaning when we are alone trying to deal with all kinds of cyber threats. Bringing our knowledge into an international whole should be our ambition, I think. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the last part of this paragraph. It's about sanctions. It is one of the most concrete tools in the toolbox of the European Union. I would also like to respond to Mr Sjoerdsma's amendment and some of Mr Van der Lee's suggestions on a new sanction unit. We are extremely grateful to Mr Van der Lee for his perseverance. I have been annoyed for years by the fact that we only had these trade boycott-like sanctions. While everyone here who's read the book Moneyland, I strongly recommend that that book know that when it comes to sanctions, you need so much more refinement to know exactly who you're hitting where in a way that's gonna affect you, so that those blunt resources of the past aren't really relevant anymore. If someone from a reprehensible country of X moves to a neat country of Y and takes all the stolen goods and then, under the protection of the rule of law, puts them to safety for generations, then it is much better to put their finger on such a person than to use the somewhat clumsy classical instruments of "we will no longer allow your products." That is why I believe that such a sanctioning unit, a sophisticated instrument, can be extremely useful. Following this example, I would add that this calls for a state-wide approach. We can drive here, we can coordinate, but when it comes to developing very precise sanctions that are effective, you also need other knowledge institutions, such as the Ministry of Finance. We ourselves, I would say, naturally also need human resources, consisting of knowledge, but also financial resources. Mr Van der Lee and Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether this could be settled within the budget. Yeah, you can. This amendment ensures coverage, but I would add that we have a slight tendency to come up with new priorities every year. We rarely mention retroactivity here, on which it is not interesting to debate either, but we must be careful not to stack one priority on another and thereby deceive ourselves. That said, that is more a comment in the context of than a comment on the material content of the request, because we embrace it passionately. This must be done as a matter of urgency, because it is a modern way of dealing with sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	Before you go any further, Mr Sjoerdsma's amendment will receive...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's what it's gonna do, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	Judgment Room. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you to the Minister for his plea on this point and his willingness to give the amendment Chamber judgment. But I would like to make one further comment. The Minister states that we must be careful to set new priorities each time. In my opinion, this is not a new priority. I had the honour to be a member of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Fiscal Constructions shortly after my election. There is a great deal to be done to tackle tax evasion/avoidance/fraud especially in people with a lot of capital. Two interests come together here, something that has been pointed out for many years. So it's not a new wish at all. My perseverance also stems from the bewilderment that it takes so long to bring together here the knowledge, the skills and any capital that you know you usually earn more back once you have invested well. My appeal to the Minister is therefore: not only support this amendment, but make sure that colleagues in other departments give much more priority to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	I consider this to be a policy support and I very much agree with it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second block...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	Before you start, Mr Sjoerdsma has another question on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Minister clearly describes the importance and purpose of the specific sanction instruments. At the same time, he also describes the important role of the knowledge and skills of Finance. This amendment, which has been tabled by a number of parties, naturally takes the view that the capacity for foreign affairs to achieve unity is being strengthened. I would like to add a supplement to his own remarks from this Chamber. We do not demand it in this amendment, because this does not apply to this budget, but we expect the Ministry of Finance to also release the FTEs to provide that knowledge and skills. As Mr Van der Lee rightly says: if you have found the culprits, the human rights criminals, then you also want to scratch behind the letterbox companies and secret accounts, which are sometimes also in the Netherlands, in order to be able to take away their finances. I hope the Minister will agree to this in the direction of his colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	I don't know what I can commit to in other departments, but if we follow this route, it makes sense for this to be included. I would like to add something to that. ICT is also crucial in this regard. Of the NGOs involved in this field, half of the employees from the world of accountancy and the other half from the world of ICT often come from the world of ICT. I believe that, in addition to finance, this plays a major role in ensuring that these kinds of units can function properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	Good. I think that can also very well come back to this. In the letter on the drafting of the amendment, we see how the discussion with the finance colleague has turned out. Then there is a question of substance which I did not see in the written reply on sanctions. I asked how next of kin are gonna get involved. That was included in the letter prior to the debate on this budget. But I had also asked a question about harmonising and coordinating sanctions between the United States and the European Union. That's what the minister called in a subtlety. I had previously requested that those who are already on the lists of the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom be properly screened by the European Union to see whether they should also be on our lists. My question to the Minister is what is the situation and whether we can expect progress in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	That's what's being looked at right now. The ambition is to keep this parallel as much as possible. What does play a role is that the underlying legislation in the various European Member States is, of course, very different from the United States, especially in relation to all kinds of extraterritoriality elements. So that's what we're looking at, but at the same time I'm saying that it shouldn't be a doer of death. That needs to be taken seriously to see how far you can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	Speaking of sanctions, I asked questions about Iran. I think they have been answered unsatisfactoryly in the written reply, so I would like to continue with that. Mr. Raisi is responsible for the execution of nine children in 2018 and 2019. He is also personally responsible for the fact that dozens of children in Iran are still on death row waiting for their execution. However, the Minister does not want to consider sanctions against President Raisi, at least that is how I understand him. He does not want to argue in favour of this, not even in the EU. I don't understand why he doesn't want to. Does that have to do with getting his hands dirty in international politics? The Minister does not in himself argue for this, but he does point out that he thinks we should do it sometimes. The same story applies to the disruptive Iranian drone program, which causes great disaster in the region. People and countries suffer from this. The Minister also says that it is not appropriate to impose sanctions against this. I don't understand. Is that dirty hand story pointing again here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	I do not think I have replied to Mr De Roon that it is not appropriate, but that there is a wide range of EU sanctions, including sanctions against the entire Iranian ballistic missile programme and weapons of mass destruction. It is also stated that this sanction regime is periodically reviewed and, if appropriate, supplemented. So it is not appropriate not to impose these sanctions, but if appropriate, if beneficial, if it is recommended, it will be supplemented. So I may have expressed myself in answering this question in a way that could lead to misunderstandings, but that is what is meant. Mr De Roon's first question: what about sanctions against the President? Of course, we can find anything from everyone, but in order to be able to be in any form and negotiate, it is imperative that you do so with the person responsible for what is happening there. And that's the president. So that would put an end to all the possibilities of negotiating with Iran, which the United States and the main European countries are doing together. It's only possible if you negotiate with someone you can negotiate with. So we crash ourselves when we start to make impossible in such a situation all possibilities of contact and negotiation at the level of heads of state and presidents, by saying that they are no longer acceptable to us as such. I can't. That is separate from our appreciation of a regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yes, but the conclusion is that you can draw the conclusion that we are just making dirty hands, and that the fact that dozens of children in Iran are sitting on death row waiting for their execution does not make it appropriate to take action towards the President himself, who is also the main person responsible for that. It's not like he's responsible for it remotely. He's the main responsibility in that whole story. The same goes for the drone story. This is simply disruptive in the region, but apparently 'we', the government and the EU do not think it is appropriate to impose sanctions on it. For me, that's incomprehensible. I find dirty hands making something you should stay as far away from as you can. Only the reason you want to negotiate so badly can, in my opinion, never be enough to say: we are making dirty hands, because we do not want to talk about sanctions in relation to these serious things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm not gonna repeat myself. The fact that you negotiate with someone and have contact with them is completely unrelated to the question of what your political and moral judgment is about the situation in such a country and the person in question. We've often rejected what happens to those drones. We have an arms embargo on Iran, so, as far as we are concerned, we are watching for the international community in the broadest sense, although we all know the shortcuts that exist, as well as possible, that where we can, Iran is being deprived as much as possible of the possibility of doing this kind of thing. But it is not just in the world that we are in charge, as I say to Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	Finally, Mr President. The bottom line, then, is that we are not man enough or that we do not think we are man enough to act stronger and more decisively than we are now, because the serious things I have pointed out are going on, despite what you have already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	The international world is a world of flaws. Although it might not be entirely my words, I can understand a sigh in this context very well. And yet we must move on. We have to ensure that, wherever possible, we can stay in conversation to see if we can save anything from the whole non-proliferation regime and the threat it poses. That is also something of an order that we cannot just put aside because we are dealing with a president in which we can all invent the adjectives that you would be allowed to invent outside this square kilometre.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	In the last block of geopolitics a lot came along. So it takes some balancing skills to put that together in a precious question, but one thing that came along was the Atlas of the Armed Forces. I offered it to the minister yesterday. In it, we explain how much money goes to defence worldwide. For example, $1,000 billion goes from NATO to defence. That's more than ten times more than Russia spends on defence. We're gonna talk about Afghanistan. My question is whether there is not much reason to reflect before the government starts saying rashly again: we need to invest even more in Defence, because there are so many threats. I also see these threats; there is no misunderstanding about them, but there is also a lot going wrong and a lot of money is already going to the Defense Department. Does the Minister share the view that reflection on this point would also be sensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	Who am I to deny that reflection is wise? I would not dare to do that, and I would be unfaithful to myself, but earlier reflections have led to the observation that, in the field of defence, we undoubtedly disagree with Mr Van Dijk, who has to do more himself than we have done in the past. The United States always insists on this. They're right about that, too. This president does so in constructive, mild terms. The previous one had a different vocabulary for that, but the trend is the same: you can't always knock on our door for your safety; you have to do something for that yourself. Defense is defense. Weapons can be used for an attack, aggression, wrong things, but weapons can also be used to protect yourself and your people. It is a fundamental duty of every government to ensure that one has the capacity to protect people. In that sense, I look a little differently at weapons than Mr Van Dijk. They shouldn't be here. Ideally, we should all decide to create a little more of a paradise on earth, but there isn't. Ever since Adam and Eve left paradise, we've been living in a transition period. That also means that you have uncertainties to deal with. These uncertainties simply mean that in case of emergency you must be able to defend yourself. That's part of the defense. It would be nice if everyone did it a little less, but unfortunately the world isn't that big of a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	It is good to hear from the Foreign Minister that we are in 'a transitional period'. Maybe we can come back to that later, but can I specify something? I already indicated: NATO spends around USD 1,000 billion on defence and Russia spends around EUR 62 billion. Why don't you let that work on you? Now there is thought of a European military force, a strategic compass. That needs to be built up, too. Does the Minister share my concern that you shouldn't be organizing duplicates? You already have NATO. Why do you have to build a European military force that may be doing all kinds of things from Brussels that the Dutch House of Representatives is not waiting for at all? Does he at least share the view that the House of Representatives should always have full control of this and that we should not hand it over to a more anonymous entity in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u28	We are your servant as a cabinet. If your Chamber says we have certain things to do or to leave, then so be it. I do agree with Mr Van Dijk that we should avoid duplication here at all costs. I shall come back to this later, but on the basis of what I have seen so far, that is not the case. So I'm not so worried about that right now, but of course every organization has its own natural mission creep. So every organization always tends to grow slowly instead of shrink. We must therefore pay attention to this. But in the field of defence, I really do not think that Mr Van Dijk is the one who has to pay attention to the fact that we are getting bigger secretly. We want to invest more in Defence, which is also stated in the Defence vision 2035.......................................................................................................................................................... We simply have to relate to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u29	Maybe it comes up in another block, you know, but I've been asking questions about the climate. Of course, I also saw the written reply. Thank you to all the officials for doing this again and for having responded in writing. My question was also about how to work better with a country like India, especially in the area of climate. Of course, that country has its own challenges with the smog and the lockdown they have because of it; Mr Van der Lee said it yesterday. That's all true. But did Mr Timmermans in the front perhaps not invest just a little too little in this climate diplomacy? In the written reply it is quite solid and well placed here. However, we may not have completed the climate summit as much as we wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u30	I find it difficult to give a review now of what our Commissioner should have done and could have done differently in the field of climate change. I think it was an extremely harsh environment in which he operated. We have to admit that to be fair. Until the second week of the summit China did not give home. It wasn't clear what Australia would do either. That is an important country when it comes to this issue. India has, even a little bit in the shadows, always tambourized at the fact that it is very easy when we ask for fewer coal plants to be built, after we ourselves have been able to build up our infrastructure and environment here for 200 years. They still have a lot to catch up on in that area. I am therefore very reluctant to say that too little attention has been paid to this issue. It's simply a turbulent subject. Prior to the conference, India has also given little scope to take initiatives. I agree with Mrs Mulder that India, also given that it is structured as it is, may need our cooperation much more to ensure that it comes to something than China. China is of course very different organised. In that case, you're more dependent on what the country's leadership wants. In China it went like this; I remember it myself. At some point in Beijing you only saw the sun one week a year, because of the pollution. Then, at some point, an executive came from above and you saw the sun again. A number of power stations were shut down. That was the beginning of all sorts of actions to ensure that something was done. India isn't that one dimensional. Of course, we also have something to do with the fact that India does not have such a tight, hierarchical context as China. Well, that's a good thing, but there's consequences. Having said that, it is a little too far for me to say: that is neglected. I dare to doubt that. Moreover, at the end of the day India showed willingness to stick its neck out, with all the comments made. So we are not here, but we have taken a step forward with India.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u31	I share with the Minister that small steps forward have been taken at the climate summit. That will also prove to be such a process, including for the future. But we know that it will be discussed again in Egypt in a year, because it has actually been extended by one year. What do you do after five years? Where are you? I would ask this minister and this cabinet, even though they are outgoing, to see how you can contribute to the fact that next year in Egypt a slightly bigger step will be taken with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u32	I agree with Mrs Mulder. We have to do this ourselves in Brussels. In this respect, it does not matter that the cabinet is either outgoing or not. 'Cause outside the Netherlands, they're not missionary. They don't have a message about that either. They simply ask: what is your position? Then you can't say: we don't, because something's going on. So that's where we just have to act, and that's where I like to act. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second paragraph. It concentrates more on the European Union, also in relation to security. We were just talking about that subject, so I'll take it with me right away. I would like to say in advance that we are very much in favour of the European Union developing a little more force in the field of military deployment. We support the High Representative's proposal for a rapidly deployable EU unit. This builds on the EU Battlegroups. In principle, we agreed on that at the time. The EU Battlegroups, as I said before, have been around for 15 years now, but they have never done battles, and they have never grouped. So that didn't mean anything. It's good that now we're looking at why that had no meaning and what you can do to give it meaning. It's possible. In the past, the EU Battlegroups didn't have to pay if you didn't participate. That doesn't help inviting people to join. Financially, that is structured differently, so that is not a ticket to free riding, an opportunity to benefit from it. What also plays a role is that mandates simply take longer. First they had a period of six months and then they actually started again with unanimity. That simply means you're not getting started. What also helps is that they're going to practice together. I sometimes hear here 'we do not want an EU army' or 'we do want a European army'. To be honest, that's a bit of theology, I think. There is no European army in the sense that everyone will wear a blue beret with 27 stars from now on. There is no NATO army either. Those are the armies of the Member States. They can work together. They can work together in an integrated way. The better integrated they work together, the more effective and credible they are. The idea is that you would have a European army and that you are no longer talking about using Dutch troops anywhere, but that is not a reality. No one wants that, and that's not the point. So let's just look at what's on the table. That is more subtle than 'there will be a European army'. It is a cooperation of armies that, if necessary, can be used for a number of urgent things. As we have exchanged before, one might imagine that one day it should be possible for us to be able to secure an airport à la Kabul, for example, if the Americans say'sorry, we are leaving now' and Europeans say 'we want to fix something here'. The European revolution does not break out of that, but that would be extremely useful. The Americans want that, too. Let me just say that this remains on the basis of unanimity. It's not like with the Battlegroups anymore, namely that every few months you have to say what you do unanimously again. If we have a mission somewhere, the idea is to meet now to go for a little longer period. You'll make that decision by unanimity. But then a number of implementing measures do not require unanimity every time, because that undermines the power of action. In order to avoid misunderstandings, it remains, in the end, a national competence to send our soldiers somewhere; this is also what our Constitution states. It's something else like... because this is unanimity. It is different when it comes to other decisions, such as decisions on sanctions. We find it extremely disturbing that you always need unanimity. In fact, that makes you so much slower and less effective that we are in favour of pursuing a qualified majority in some of these areas. The tragedy is that you can only decide on a qualified majority when you have agreed unanimously once. So we keep running into a problem there. However, I see now that more Member States, Germany, have recently and, in my opinion, a subsequent German cabinet, too, are now positive about it. That may help, but honesty requires us to say that we do not have sufficient support for it at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I come to the subject of the east flank. This, of course, is also linked to the European Union. Many of you have spoken about this. Many of you have expressed your concerns. It is right that this Chamber should stand still, I think. It is clear, of course, that there is also a demand that Russia plays a major role in this, whether it is the illegal annexation of Crimea, the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine, which is, of course, caused by..... or hybrid warfare including cyberattacks. It is, of course, obvious that Russia is a disturbing element in this. Here too, we are sticking to the guiding principle of pressure on the one hand and dialogue on the other. There's no other way. This is also in line with what has been agreed within the European Union. Of course, we have a sanction package for Russia, but in addition to that sanction package, we also have to deal with the threats in other ways. Some of you were in the Baltic states. You have seen that we are active there, through NATO, but also through the OSCE, in a different way, and through the European Union. We are also doing it by investing in strengthening the resilience of our Eastern European partners, not only our Eastern European partners within the European Union, but also the members of the Eastern Partnership. We're investing in those relationships. I spoke to them all in Brussels last Monday. That is also highly appreciated. They also ask for a long-term commitment. We also do it on a small scale, bilaterally, simply by visiting and speaking to them. Through smaller activities in the Matra Fund and the Human Rights Fund, we are trying to support reforms there. Through helping NGOs, we are also trying to shape a civil society. We're gonna have to see if we need to do more. It's up to a new cabinet to decide. But, as we talk about it here, I see that you share the importance of investing in this region, also for our own security and stability. It is not just a form of development cooperation that they are doing well. It is also investing in a little more stability on the relatively unstable edges of Europe. Some of you, Mr Brekelmans, I remember, and I also thought Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Mulder spoke about the construction of troops on the borders of Russia and Ukraine. We sing along in the choir, I say, of France, Germany and the United States, who find that extremely worrying. There can always be an accident, even if the intentions are not so. Risks of incidents are always greater risks in a tense environment than when it is quiet. We are following it as closely as possible through NATO, the OSCE and the EU observers. The Secretary-General of NATO has also repeatedly called on Russia to at least show what exercises are taking place there and where troops are moving. Transparency already helps a little to prevent incidents. As the Secretary-General also points out, we naturally continue to support Ukraine in terms of self-determination and territorial integrity. Then I come to Belarus...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u33	Something is now being said outside the microphone. Perhaps you could repeat what Mrs Piri said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u34	I'm being reprimanded. I said Belarus and Mrs Piri said Belarus, and I think Mrs Piri is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u35	That's right. Thank you for the answer on the construction of the border with Ukraine. I had also asked whether any further agreements had been reached at NATO level. I recognize the point of the risks of incidents but have any agreements been made? That can be indicated here, but that may, as far as I am concerned, also happen in the course of the debate we are having next week on NATO and the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u36	Given the context of the question, if Mrs Mulder accepts it, I think it would be safer to come back to this later. We were supposed to be talking about Belarus. I'm just checking to see if I'm not gonna repeat myself. With regard to Belarus, there is a package of sanctions. This week, a political agreement was reached on a fifth sanction package, which also provides for the possibility of targeting a more targeted number of people involved in certain activities with these sanctions. We hope to continue with these sanctions to tighten the screws. Mr Brekelmans asked about the development of this package. I cannot go into the precise content of the package which is being worked on these days and which is likely to be in a final phase next week. So I still have to keep the answer to that. However, these sanctions are in the spirit they were discussed here yesterday. This means that it is also intended to look at companies and people involved in these movements, the recruitment of migrants and the leasing of aircraft to enable flights. In that whole range, therefore, the Chamber should look for it. Mr Ceder asked about SWIFT. With this SWIFT we have and everyone has great difficulty, and why? That is such a rude tool that you're actually mainly touching people who are already victims, because they can't make their payments anymore, just seeing how many people from Belarus are working outside Belarus to support their families in Belarus and to transfer those resources to ensure that those people can live. You'll shut down the whole system. It's such a rude, radical shot shot shot shot that you actually hit everything, when you actually want to see exactly who you want to hit to make sure that this is limited. So that's why that's a means that's very bad for itself in this context. Mr. Chairman. But in addition to the sanction package, of course, something else plays a role, namely simply border surveillance. We are helping Latvia and Lithuania to strengthen the border, including in the reception of migrants, also with bilateral support in this area. Of course, I would like to say at this point that we are going to talk about this later, and that we are always calling for border control to be carried out in compliance with international and European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u37	Before you proceed, Mr Brekelmans has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u38	I had another question about the sanction package. I fully understand that it is now being finalized, so the Minister cannot say anything specific about it. However, I am concerned that you will see some reports coming out on the left and right that there will still be negotiations on which organisations will be included in that sanction list. These seem to be details, but the power of such a package is ultimately in these things: who gets on the list, which sectors are hit and what are the consequences? What I am concerned about is that we now have the time to make a strong move and stop the smuggling of human beings and those abuses at the border. We have seen that it took the European Union about four months to put together a new sanction package. Four months from here we're in February/March and we've had all winter. We cannot allow these abuses to continue all winter. So my question to the Minister would be to work, one, to ensure that things are not nibbled off in the elaboration of the details. And two, if it does seem to be disappointing, what is the reaction and the first commitment that the Netherlands is going to make to arrive at a really solid package anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u39	I understand very well. I hear the assignment behind it and I'm happy to accept it. Last Monday, I myself called for the start of preparation for a next package, so that you do not really lose months when it is necessary to effect that next package. Honesty commands me to say that not everyone was equally enthusiastic about this, but we are trying to exert as much pressure as possible. In favour of those who are now working on the final elements of this package, I must also say that it must be legally sustainable. If you put an institution on that list, you don't want to be flogged back in court two months later. So it all has to be true. The whole complex of these leasing companies and so on is still legally quite complicated, who is responsible for what and what ultimately goes where for what reason. So for the time being, I'm still pretty optimistic that a strong package like we agreed on Monday will come out of this. But we will see that at the end of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u40	I understand it has to be legal. Only, of course, it is also true that sometimes a state of emergency or an unusual situation requires unusual measures. I think the political assessment is: has that situation been achieved? On the basis of what we now see at the border, not only for the people there but also for how we as Europe are being blackmailed, I think that this is the time to come up with firm measures and to use everything that is possible in them. For example, Mr Ceder asked about SWIFT. That is indeed a gross measure, but I believe that now is the time to use this kind of measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u41	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u42	My question to the Minister is whether he also thinks that the situation and the situation are such that, even though it is legally difficult, we should take everything out of the box and that that moment really is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u43	I agree with that, but we have 27 Member States that have to agree with it. That is why there is, of course, a discussion about it. You taste gradations when it comes to the question: how full is the size? That is simply the reality with which we have to deal in Europe. I cannot prevent that either, but our input is entirely in the spirit of what Mr Brekelmans is saying here. As I said on Monday, I advocated starting now with the preparation of the next package, so that there is no misunderstanding that we do not allow ourselves to be constantly called into question in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u44	I thank the Minister for his reply. I have indeed asked what is also mentioned in the European Parliament by a number of parties, namely the SWIFT system. I fully agree with you that you need to look closely at what works, but we also note that what we have done over the past few months, including working together, has not yet led to a certain pressure that the President says: and now I stop. I wonder when the point will be reached in order to take that step. You have great confidence in the sanction package that is to come, but we still have to see how long it will take. I wonder when you, as Minister, have reached the point of introducing such measures. In line with Mr Brekelmans, what does that mean in the coming weeks for the people at the border because there is not enough pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u45	When I listen to what my colleagues are saying about this that have been directly affected... We are, of course, a little less directly affected, although in the end it also affects us. When I look at what Germany and Central European countries think, you will see that it has been gradually reached at the border, but as has been said, we have a number of Member States in the European Union and we need to agree on it. My commitment is very strong measures. As far as I am concerned, the next package may also come soon. As far as SWIFT is concerned, I would just like to point out that you have to be extremely careful, simply because you are hitting people who are already suffering from everything that regime is doing to bad things. That would be a highly unfair, sad consequence of your need for action. You can't do that. I think that's something we have to pay attention to. However, I also agree with the urgency indicated by Mr Ceder. I'm tasting his question like, can't we do more? Actually, I agree. We have to do what's possible. I am also trying to convince my colleagues as much as possible. As I said, I'm not alone. But just after last summer, when I arrived, I noticed that there are nuance differences in the pace and the sharpness with which they want to respond. This simply has to do with where a country lies, how urgent you feel and what interests and networks there are. That's what it's like to have a country in here. But I totally agree with you. We are, in fact, committed from the outset to putting a stop to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u46	The fact that the Minister is already talking about a sixth package makes me walk to the microphone. I do have a dilemma. The question is to what extent you need to discuss all this in detail. It is also clear that the Chamber prefers a package that is so heavy that it really leads to the desired results. From the Minister's answer, I conclude that it is his assessment that, because you have 27 Member States, the strength of this package may not be enough and one more will follow, perhaps one more. We're in an escalation. Part of what happens at the border may also be the result of previous sanction packages, as you are in an escalation with each other. Does this also mean that the government's vision is that we should continue to build it in time and that the final package in that sense is not yet on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u47	Well, I'm not saying that because I already dare to give a value judgment on the effectiveness of this fifth package. It's not exactly on the table yet. There is agreement that this will be a tough package that bites. We will have to wait and see if it has the desired result. I brought that up because I thought: I can't look into the future; I can't predict if it actually works exactly as we think it works. If that is not the case, I would regret it if we did not actually start to prepare again until after we have established that. So consider it a bit like a stick behind the door in case the stick that is now polished up and thrown into the arena does not achieve the desired effect. I am confident that this sanction package will work, but I am not sure about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mrs Piri and then Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u49	We are now talking about the fifth sanction package, specifically focused on what Lukashenko is doing to migrants and, therefore, specifically targeted, I believe, on those sectors. My question is actually about the four previous sanction packages, because ultimately the cause is Lukashenko. He gets air and oxygen from state companies, allowing him to continue paying his people and civil servants. When we look at the trade figures between the Netherlands and Belarus, I believe that those four sanction packages may well have had no impact on our trade relationship. How does the Minister see that? Does he see similar movements throughout the European Union, which show that these four sanction packages did not actually contribute to Lukashenko's pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u50	It's a good thing Mrs. Piri is asking. We've talked about it before. I think we need to distinguish a few or three things. One thing is that we have to look closely at what we're comparing. The sanction package we are talking about, which is relevant, actually did not begin until this summer, in June. If we compare trade figures from last year, January-August, with trade figures from this year, January-August, it might seem as if nothing happened, because that larger package that looks at these companies actually did not go into effect until June. So it's still premature to draw the conclusion from those figures that it doesn't work. The second thing I want to say about it is that later on in the analysis we should also look at whether it actually means that it is just business as usual or that trade flows have come from elsewhere than the companies we targeted. We don't know yet. So I would like to make two comments. They make me think it's premature to say it doesn't work. The third is that we have committed ourselves to analysing as quickly as possible how the current flows are running, so that we are sure that this does not involve bypasses that undermine those sanctions, because that is of course the last thing you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u51	I welcome the last comment, because it must not be the case that these sanctions are being avoided. But we're now 16 months after that fraudulent election, stolen by Lukashenko. If we add everything together, even when we are talking about the fifth sanction package, I have to say that there have never been so many political prisoners in Belarus. We see what Lukashenko does to his own people. We cannot introduce, 16 months later, effective sanctions. In fact, we see a German Chancellor who sees him as a legitimate interlocutor in the debate that has now arisen because of the migration situation at the border. I know the commitment of this Chamber and this cabinet is to hit that man hard. I hope, if necessary, that we can do this with a number of like-minded countries if we do not succeed together with the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u52	Perhaps a detail, but I understand that Chancellor Merkel has never spoken to and to Lukashenko as "president" but always as "sir." It's a detail, but of course it also indicates the embarrassment with the situation, which makes sure that you really don't want to have contact with him. But sometimes you have to, because you're thinking, what the hell can I do to make sure that that drama at that border is reduced as soon as possible? So I don't only blame Mrs Merkel, but I think that, given the possibilities, the Chancellor has acted well by looking at whether they are now two, I think, with Mr Lukashenko, something that gives some relief. 'Cause what's the biggest need right now? Is that the people who are at that border, or is that our general disapproval of the suffering that people in Belarus suffer from because of that regime? So I can follow that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u53	At that very point, I wanted to ask a question. Lukashenko's a villain. We initially supported the sanctions for electoral fraud, but, of course, there have been a lot of developments, especially in the case of migrants at the Polish border. I also ask the Minister to look at the very recent developments. That's right. Merkel called Lukashenko. And now you're seeing some developments in a different direction. Airlines stop flights to Belarus. A warehouse has been set up to accommodate migrants. Things change. I am not against sanctions, but I think the Minister said some sensible things earlier. The VVD now says 'even more sanctions, even harder', but I think that Merkel's diplomacy has been successful so far. Does the Minister see that, too? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u54	I cannot comment on Mr Lukashenko's considerations, whether it is a phone call from Mrs Merkel, a call from Mr Putin or an insight into the impact of the new sanctions that are coming on land. Such a man also has friends, who may have children who study somewhere in Europe or in America. You don't know what all the considerations can be that make something happen here. The fact is that this threat of sanctions combined with the European Union's diplomacy towards Baghdad, Beirut and Amman has also had an effect. People are confronted with what they are doing, but also with possible repercussions. What exactly has been the reason, I don't know, but pushing, threatening and still holding a door is often a package that gives you the most options to see if you can do something good. So what exactly is the key element? I honestly don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u55	I fully agree with what has been said about sanctions towards Belarus. What happens there, the way Lukashenko deals with people, is incredibly disgusting. It also threatens to escalate further, although diplomacy and sanctions seem to be having an effect now. But we are still facing a humanitarian crisis there at the border. We are now reading again that Poland has arrested 100 migrants. Of course, we can only look at what is happening on the side of Belarus, what Lukashenko is doing, but in Europe we have also agreed certain guarantees about dealing with migrants. If you look at what is happening in Poland at the moment, then I think we can also disagree with each other. I wonder how the Minister looks at the actions of the Polish Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u56	I have already said that I do not have a certain degree of hesitation, but I have caution in the use of great words in this regard. I'll tell you why. On the one hand, and it's gonna happen to you, you suddenly see as a country what's coming at you. You have the duty not only to have the right, but also the duty as a government to protect your borders from threats from outside. That's one way. The other side is that we all adhere to the rules of human dignity. I am a little afraid of being too easy... I think we should address Poland on Monday I also did so with the Polish Minister on what we have all agreed with him and what binds us within the European Union. Those are rules of law. But I also think that we should be aware of what is happening to them. That is why we always say that we understand that Poland is protecting its borders, but that we do believe that if people apply for asylum there, they have that right and Poland has a duty to deal with it as we have agreed here. I have a feeling that this message will gradually come across in Poland as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u57	I may understand the Minister's struggle in part. At the same time, I believe that certain fundamental rights should be guaranteed with each other, just when it is difficult. We are now in a situation where the Polish government is spraying away migrants trapped there with water cannons. Then I doubt that's really defending the border. I have a feeling that you will leave out the humanitarian duty we have with each other. But I am glad to hear that the Minister is already addressing the Polish Government. If the Minister can promise me that he would like to do so again at the Foreign Council next time, I believe, 23 November, and I would be delighted if he would agree to do so within the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u58	I can easily make that commitment, because it goes without saying that we will do so if there is reason to do so. I also asked for access to humanitarian organisations in that area. Au fond is the case that those people who are on the Belarusian side must go to Minsk and return from Minsk to where they come from. That is what I said to the Polish College together with my German colleague. Iraq has already indicated its willingness to do so. There are signs that Belarus may also cooperate in this. That is, of course, what needs to be done if you want to face this threat, because that is what it is: it is a humanitarian disaster and a threat at the same time. Then it must be clear that if you buy a ticket to Minsk by a recruiter in Baghdad for $4,000 or $5,000, that is not the route by which you apply for asylum in Europe. That's not the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u59	In any case, I welcome the commitment. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that, in his reply, he is now moving in the opposite direction and moving away from the duty that we, as Europe, have. I would like to point out to the Minister that 100 migrants are now in detention. I hope he will continue to follow that process closely in his direction for Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you. I call Mr Eppink and Mrs Mulder. Mr. Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u61	I appreciate that the minister keeps the church in the middle, looks which way it goes and which way it has to go. I would like to ask whether there are any measures that Poland has now taken that do not comply with European law. Is there a point, or are there moments, when you think Poland is violating European law, yes or no? And I agree with the solution he suggests, namely that these people should go back to where they came from and that Belarus, or Belarus, is actually a sort of recruiter in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u62	As far as the first question is concerned, the most important thing I wish I could give a clear answer to that. That is not possible because Poland has declared a state of emergency and has actually declared the area a prohibited area. Journalists can't go there that easily either. So that makes me feel a little uncomfortable. De facto, therefore, I cannot answer Mr Eppink clearly because we do not know. Actually, you'd like to know. You should actually be able to be open about that so that you can watch with each other how we're going to solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u63	I couldn't agree more with the Minister's description. I can also imagine that, in this way, it has also taken Poland by surprise that people are being pushed across the border like live bullets. Maybe Poland needs some help from us, too. I don't know, but it might be. I've seen the British send some people that way. Is that something that also emerged in the talks with the Poles? Do they need that too? And the Minister is investigating that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u64	That's what we've been talking about. We offered that. The European Union has also offered this. It has not been requested so far, but it has not been done by Poland by Lithuania. Frankly, we regret that, because it would help if you could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u66	Then I answered this part about the humanitarian aspect, except for the point that we do indeed see that there seems to be access for the Red Cross on both sides. There was also a suggestion that UNHCR and IOM, the International Organisation for Migration, were already on the border on the Belarusian side, on the Belarusian side. I understand now that this is going to happen, but not at the moment. In this context, it is good to point out, also in the direction of Mrs Mulder, that we are constantly looking to help the Baltic States alongside Poland. We are. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to security on the eastern flank in general, as you can see, we are involved...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u67	Before you do that, Mr Van der Lee has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yeah, I still do. I understand that this issue is complex, but the humanitarian situation is becoming increasingly acute as winter approaches and this situation perseveres. It is very important that the Red Cross gets access, but there may be a time when the humanitarian crisis is suddenly accelerating. The minister says we don't know exactly what's going on. But there are images and there are already evidence of forms of pushbacks. There may be such a bad situation that the other Member States too should be prepared to help Poland to take care of people who can no longer be prevented, because they could literally die of cold. What about that scenario? Is that being prepared? Is this already being considered on the basis of solidarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u69	Sure. Sure. If you're very cynical, you can say: there's an interesting eye opener in this too. Because until now Poland has had a position in this whole debate that may be tilting now, because Poland sees what it means when it happens, when, translated into a year ago, people are in camps in Greece and it does not manage to distribute them neatly, orderlyly among the European Member States. That could still be manifesting itself. I do not want to anticipate this, because that also depends on the situation. I am making it a little bigger: the question of how we can shape a common European asylum policy has been given a different couleur locale now that this is happening. Without me knowing what the outcome will be, but you'll find out. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I'll finish up when it comes to the east flank. Some of you have seen how we are involved in enhanced forward presence. They are not permanent military bases, because that was not agreed at the time when NATO was enlarged. But it is a presence that indicates that we are present. We want to build on that. The amount of the Dutch contribution has even increased, as we have told you. Look, we are also willing to contribute, if Poland asks for support in border control. Then we will certainly see if the Royal Marechaussee can play a role in this. But that is not the case so far. When it comes to other help, here's what I'm gonna say. What bothers me personally about what is happening now is that we completely forget that this all began with gross misconduct by Lukashenko, last year on the eve of the elections, during the elections and after that. That is what it started and that is, of course, where the central pain lies for the people who live there. We have already tried to support and support human rights activists and NGOs. Following the fraud in last year's elections, this support has been increased. We support the Belarus opposition movement, simply by talking to them. That is actually the most important thing we can do at the moment: to get them to hear here, to plead for their cause and to hold stages to argue for their cause, so that they also know that we are not abandoning them, given the opportunities we have. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the subject of democracy and human rights, as we had called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u70	That's right. Mr Brekelmans had another question, I think on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u71	I have another question that concerns this issue. The Minister said, also in the written reply, that there are first signs that the countries of origin are prepared to stop the flow and that there may be a flight back to Iraq. But these are first signals from a select group of countries. We have also seen that, if you look at which migrants are in Belarus and Eastern Europe, you can see that they come from various countries, including Africa. Let us not rejoice too early and continue to exert pressure on those countries to stop the power and take people back. My question is therefore for the Minister to make a commitment to this within the European Union, so that the European Union will use its means to do so. That is the signal: the Netherlands, the European Union, is committed to this, because it is supported by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u72	That warning is right, and it will be. I myself had the impression that last Monday the High Representative was rather optimistic about everything that had already been achieved in the four previous days. Of course, it's a global waterbed: you think you've solved it here and then it comes back up there. So you're not here when you've visited Baghdad, Beirut and Amman and you've been successful there. In that sense, I agree with this plea. We have to keep hammering on that. It is interesting to note, however, that the European representation, the ambassadors, has been greatly mobilized in a large number of countries in a short time to work on this and to draw even more attention to it. They are attacking the media about this in the various countries where they are. Then you can see that such a device with combined power can do something. I always thought: there is a lot of discussion in the European External Action Service. But you can see that the device can still move a bit. We have to wait and see, but it's not all trouble and torment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u73	I would like to speak briefly about the eastern flank and the Balkans. One of the questions I asked was: is it not necessary for the Netherlands and the European Union to be more concerned about their own backyard? I refer to the threat that the Balkan countries will break up or be torn apart, sometimes by domestic influences and sometimes by external influences, which happens at our eastern border. This minister just made a plea for investment in Defense. That also seems very sensible to our group. You can't use a rusty toolbox to strengthen your own boundaries. But I would also ask him to reflect on the capacity that is now available at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in general terms but also specifically when it comes to our own backyard. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u74	I am not really so pessimistic about that, especially when it comes to capacity in the department. We have been able to see some reinforcements in the various posts by you and by Mr Van der Lee in recent years. That's important, because you have to be there. If you only operate with branches, you're not there. So it is important that we are well-present. There has also been a necessary improvement in this regard. Since I've been dealing with it, I haven't noticed that people are running into a shortage of people. That may be different for one country than for another, but if I compare it to ten years ago, then really great steps have been taken. Then the ambience was that diplomacy was a little out of date. That is no longer the case, so I am not so gloomy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u75	What the minister said about ten years ago, I remember. Let us not go back to that, for the bald blow that took place at that time has been repaired with great difficulty. Human expertise can't just be replaced after it's been removed. That is what the Minister agrees with. I'm also asking because it's my own feeling that... When I listen to the Minister's answer, I hear that we are around the world, but as the Minister said in his own introduction, if you are always principled, you may never be relevant. As long as you're present everywhere, you're rarely effective. At least it'll be harder, because then it'll be overflowing with people. My question to the Minister is to reflect on our own backyard, on the attention and on the human force that this requires, both within the European Union and beyond. Is the jacket comfortable and sufficient, as he says now, or is there some wear?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'd like to take it with me in the discussions within the department itself. I myself have the impression that the Balkans are also doing very well. Perhaps it is also going very well because after all these years we have become very used to working with other Member States. The ease with which things are taken over from each other has of course also changed a bit in the way many posts work. You can certainly see that in the Western Balkans. There you can see that it has actually been used in such a way that, of course, that helps. But I'd like to tell you something, too. Because when I say a bout portant here "I feel comfortable with it," that actually says relatively little, in the sense that I also want to hear something back. So I'm gonna take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u77	Before you go any further, I would like to ask you to step up the pace with a view to the clock. I know a lot of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u78	Most of it's been treated, I think. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u79	There are three more themes on my list, but they might be a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u80	They're getting shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u81	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u82	Human rights. That, of course, has been discussed by all of you. I will leave everyone who is referred to here to review. Mr Eppink quoted a thesis by Voorhoeve. That was in English. It's called Peace, profit and principles. He asked: isn't there too much respect for principles? I said a few words about this in my introduction. I think that when you talk about nothing but human rights and the rule of law, you do indeed run the risk of not being effective at all. But if you do not always allow it to be an important pillar of foreign policy, then you also harm other things. In the context of lawlessness, a company cannot flourish either. That company can't go to court and runs into corruption. So it's also important to see where it crosses and hits, and where it strengthens each other, instead of where it's just the vicar versus the merchant. I think that's a dichotomy we've all gotten used to, but it's also a little slutty when it comes to everyday reality. That is why I also say that human rights need not be seen as the starting point for foreign policy, but as one of the two or three fundamental pillars without which the roof called foreign policy does not hold. What I do think is important, and I mentioned this earlier, is that we are not pulling up on our own, because then we are failing ourselves so much in terms of effectiveness. We agree with many of the proposals you have made, and we welcome them. Mr Ceder insisted on supporting the victims of religious persecution. That's what we do, and that's what we care about. I say this not only because Mr Cedar is of the Christian Union, but because that is a fundamental starting point of human dignity. We are also looking to broaden the partnerships in this area. In this context, Mr Van der Staaij asked whether it was not even time to extend human rights policy to include democracy. It would be a bit cowardly to say that a next government can find out. Of course it is, but I also think we should agree. When we talk about human rights and the rule of law, we talk about freedom of religion and belief, freedom of opinion, media freedom, the fight against impunity, and the promotion of equal rights of minority groups in society. All these are the building blocks of a democracy. For the last 20 years, you've had, I'll just say, populist democracies. A part of the people is hunted down, emotionalized, opts for a strong leader, who has the power over all the media, and in four years' time there are elections again and he usually wins a "he" again. That is not what we call democracy. Democracy is in civil society, it is in the areas I have just mentioned. If these areas of rule of law are served, then there is room for the creation of a democracy. In that sense, I think that from the approach that we have so far maintained, that we are looking very closely at all the elements of the rule of law, we are nevertheless touching the right building blocks for something that ultimately leads to democracy. Mr. Chairman. Another point I would like to emphasise is that we have to ensure that our own democracy continues to function. In that sense, I would like to say to Mr De Roon that we are also very much in favour of the interests of you, of Dutch parliamentarians, such as Mr Wilders. If there are threats there, then I think we should point out that these are thresholds for us that should not be exceeded. That is unacceptable to us, and we have to stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u83	I had to get the Minister's words on human rights settled. He says: they are one of the main pillars and we must also stand up for them, but never alone; we must always do so together with others. Then I thought about Boris Johnson, not really a Social Democrat. When things went wrong in Hong Kong, he said that these people are welcome here. Then I had to think about Portugal, which recently recorded the Afghan women's football team. But I also had to think of Angela Merkel, who, when it went wrong with Navalny in that hospital, allowed one of the opposition leaders from Russia to be transferred to Berlin on a private plane. Those are exactly the examples that I want the Netherlands to take first place. Sometimes you have to do it alone. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u84	I couldn't agree more. I spoke more in the context of taking action. If you want to achieve something in front of another country, it's wise not to be alone. But the kind of actions that Mrs Piri calls are taken from my heart. It adorns a country when it manifests in such a way. There's no misunderstanding about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a subject that concerns this. That is the restriction of freedom of the press, which Mr Dassen spoke about, among other things. We talked about the expulsion of that correspondent of the Volkskrant from Russia. We have tried to do what we can, and we still do, but the possibilities are limited. But we do want to use resources from the Human Rights Fund generously to protect journalists. Mr Sjoerdsma has pointed this out in previous debates, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u85	There is a question from Mr De Roon and then one from Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u86	It's actually about the previous point. It is, of course, to be appreciated that the Minister says that the government believes that parliamentarians in the Netherlands should be well protected, even if there are threats from abroad. But I pointed out yesterday what is happening in Pakistan. I do not hear the Minister say so much about this. I would therefore like to ask him whether he shares the concern about what is happening in Pakistan and whether he is also talking about this with Pakistan and expressing our displeasure at what is happening there, namely the legalisation of an organisation that had always been considered a terrorist and the release of 2,000 members of it. Then you can't say: we'll wait and see what happens there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u87	I thought I would take a look at what I said to Mr De Roon. I do not think we really disagree on what Mr De Roon says about this. We have indicated that we find the threat of politicians unacceptable. That's what we transferred to the authorities. It is still unclear at the moment where the negotiations between the Pakistani Taliban and the Pakistani Government lead and what they may mean for the release of Pakistani Taliban. We are following this closely, like our colleagues in Islamabad from other European countries, but we are also talking to the Pakistani authorities for all kinds of reasons, for example to ensure that Pakistan helps us to bring people to the Netherlands through Pakistan that we have promised to bring from Afghanistan to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr. De Roon, I'm going to ask you to do the interruptions a little bit shorter. I also ask the Minister to do the answers a little bit shorter. Then at some point we can go to lunch break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u89	I'm hearing this. I'm not reassured. The Minister must assume that we will at least keep a close eye on this. If terrorists in Pakistan are released who have made serious threats to the Netherlands, sometimes towards my own group chairman, then I think that this should be followed up. I will remind the Minister of this matter over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Then there is a question from Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u91	Yeah, just in case. Yesterday I asked a number of questions to the Minister about democracy in Latvia. That is what Mr Van der Staaij has done. I think you're coming to the end of your democracy block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u92	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u93	Are those answers still coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u94	Some of these questions have also been answered in writing, but I would like to ask the Minister whether we are almost at the end of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u95	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u96	And are these questions about Latvia still on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u97	I thought we had answered it in writing, but if not, I'd like to get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u98	Maybe right now? The questions have indeed been answered in writing, but Mr Van Houwelingen has a question about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u99	Maybe I can come back to this in ten minutes? Then I have to dig in my mail very quickly, because I just haven't read those answers yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u100	The written answer contains a comprehensive answer to your question. If you have any further questions, you can ask them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u101	Yes. So that's what happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u102	That's been handed out, too. It's still on paper here. So that's what you can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u103	Thank you to the Minister for the answer to the question on journalists. We were already familiar with the answer given by the Minister, because we have had that answer before, including on the Human Rights Fund. The Dutch government also has Shelter Cities where journalists can be welcomed. The problem with this is that journalists who are in acute distress and in a life-threatening situation cannot use it because the application often takes months to do so. The question that we have, and which we hear from the world where journalists are under pressure, is to include journalists in the Netherlands in case of acute emergency, following Denmark and Canada. I wonder what the Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u104	Then I repeat what we did exchange earlier. Firstly, a person who is threatened and in danger in his own country can always apply for asylum here. You can always do that. So that's unrelated to someone's profession. That is why Mr Dassen laughs, but if you are really in danger, it is not clumsy that that is possible and that you can find safety somewhere. Well, that's kind of a primary thing. Furthermore, we have the arrangements we have. We can offer a stay of 90 times 2, so 180 days. I understand very well that this is not a solution to acute danger. This is the legal area that we have at the moment. It is also not my responsibility, I say cowardly as I am, but it is not. The fact is that this is a matter of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mr. Dassen. This is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u106	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I like to use it. I had a laugh because you said that people in need can always apply for asylum here. The procedures for this are now a year and a half. So the moment you're in acute distress, it's gonna take a pretty long time. But I would prefer to use my last interruption for the Media Freedom Coalition, of which the Netherlands is chairman. We are chairman of this and say that we want to guarantee the security of journalists worldwide. Surely it is distressing that we do not want to come up with a solution ourselves for journalists who are in acute need? I would like to ask the Minister one more time, otherwise I will also come up with a motion in the light of the Media Freedom Coalition, of which the Netherlands, together with Canada, is chairing this proposal on the 50 journalists per year who are in acute need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u107	I said what I said. So there is little left for me but to leave it at that, even in the spirit of your recommendation to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u108	I get it, but I'm still going through it. On this day, yesterday and in other debates, we have found that there are many problems and conflicts in the world. In Europe too, emergency situations are being declared and the press are not being admitted, or the press is taking risks to get to areas where things are going on, where we need to know what is going on there. I understand the Minister is not about the department of colleagues. However, I would like to ask him to reflect on the fact that for the future, especially for democracies under pressure, it is important that free media, in all places in the world where it matters, try to bring out news that is relevant to us. Does he also want to reflect on the fact that journalists may be permanently willing to do so if they know that there are democracies that help and absorb them at times when it is absolutely necessary? From this point of view, would the Minister not consider it desirable for this to be considered carefully and for negotiating parties to take this into account in their discussions? Does he think that it is also in the interests of Dutch foreign policy in the future that we are doing more than we have done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr Van der Lee is asking for the same thing in another way, so I cannot really add much to it. The underlying basic attitude is extremely sympathetic. But it is also full of complexities that we have to consider very carefully to know whether a reflection on this issue is likely to lead to something that Mr Van der Lee considers more satisfying than the answer I am giving now. Mr. Chairman. I come to the conclusion of this part. I have one small subject. That's the evidence bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u110	First, Mr. Van Houwelingen. Because I think he has read the written answers and has a supplementary question on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u111	First of all, thank you to the Minister for the answers. I've read the answers now. If I read them correctly, then on the one hand he is saying what I said yesterday: that it is therefore an example. Those Latvian parliamentarians must have an exemplary role. That's why they've been expelled from parliament. We agree on that. But you also write: the measures are also necessary from the point of view of protecting public health. My question to you is how far you are going to go along with that. They can't vote online either; they're all out of parliament. Those who tabled that bill said themselves: 'It is an example. They're gonna have to have them, too. That's why they left parliament." You write that here, too. My question to you is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u112	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u113	Yes. My question to the Minister is, through the President, what is the main reason for him that they can no longer function in parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u114	If I have understood correctly, it was a subject for me which has also become late for me. It is an element of temporaryity and an element of public health. If I have been informed, public opinion in the broad sense has made a point of this in Latvia, namely that it would be equal monks, equal hoods. Those are actually the most important elements. By the way, it remains an intriguing question of how exactly that relates to all kinds of constitutional agreements we have. I promised Mr Van Houwelingen three days ago to reflect on this in writing within ten days. Of those ten there are now three, so at the latest in seven days' time we should have put together for ourselves how all these aspects weigh in relation to each other and what that means for a democracy. I read that you can't actually go out in Austria without a vaccine. It may also be that at some point there is a decision to temporarily do something with Parliament. Actually, I'd like to know what that means. As promised at the time, I would like to return to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u115	I wasn't aware of that commitment, but there's gonna be a more extensive letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u116	I'm very glad to hear that. I'm gonna read it with a lot of interest. Let me clarify, because that is really what we are talking about. That's the creepy thing about this example. This letter also says part of it that you have an example function. That is also what the Latvian Parliament has indicated, at least the people who have submitted the laws there. They said that. From what I understand, it was not about public health, but about the fact that you have an exemplary role. So it can't be, as you actually said, I'm going to tell you through the Chair that, as a parliamentarians, you're going to do your job unvaccinated. What does that mean? I'm trying to get that straight. Now I come back to my other example. If, for example, the Latvian Parliament is unlikely to do so, but let's say that this is the Hungarian Parliament, decides that it doesn't want to have anything to do with lgbt and introduces a law to protect public morality, could that mean, as far as you are concerned, that people and parliamentarians who think differently about it should get out of parliament? Are we agreed that if that were to happen, so if the reasoning is completely separate from public health, then all limits are exceeded? I think it's part of the same thing in your letter. I'm happy about that in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u117	This is a very long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u118	It is, of course, always complicated to deal with cases that have not occurred. But the elements of public health and temporaryity are not immediately the elements that stand out in Mr Van Houweling's example of Hungary. I think we'd look at that quite differently. Because that is the essence of what is going on in Latvia, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u119	The letter on all the constitutional aspects is still coming, so that is what we are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u120	Sure. It was promised once in a committee debate, because it is an intriguing subject in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u121	You're moving on quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u122	Then I'm done with this, except for one thing. I believe that Mrs Piri and Mrs Mulder were talking about an evidence bank for Afghanistan. Now I come back to what I said earlier about the tension between priorities and retrogrades. We have at a good time, for valid reasons, been extremely concerned about Myanmar and, previously, Syria and Iraq. We now have evidence banks for that. I wouldn't want to go on like that, because every time something happens, you run the risk of someone saying: we need to have a proof bank for this. We need to find a different structure for that than to stick a little thing behind a little thing every time, because then we might be fooling ourselves that we have addressed it with that. In this case, we prefer to finance the accountability unit of the OHCHR. He could put this together. He's got the overview. It can also use different instruments, depending on the situation. I think we should be prepared, if necessary, to use additional resources to prevent us all from doing so ourselves. It's also more powerful if you do that together. A special rapporteur has been set up for Afghanistan. I think it would be wise to wait for the conclusions of the rapporteur and then to see whether an evidence bank is a workable instrument or whether it can be done in the context of the accountability unit and whether we want to make funding available for that. That would be my reaction. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm on the Afghanistan chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u123	Mr Sjoerdsma has another question on the previous subject, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u124	That's right. We often talk about human rights violations that are not so close to us. And rightly so, but things are also getting closer. I would like to bring one particular matter to the attention of the Minister, namely that which is happening in Poland. We have talked about the judiciary before, but I would also like to look at it from the perspective of women's rights. A 30-year-old woman died there because there was no access to safe abortions. I find it outrageous that a woman should die of this in today's Europe. Therefore, my question to this Minister is whether it is possible to make it possible from the Human Rights Fund to give Polish women who would like to have a safe termination of pregnancy here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u125	I do not know better than that we in the Netherlands are helping Polish women in need. We have also ensured that the costs involved are limited. We are therefore open to this. If Mr Sjoerdsma wishes to know anything more about this, I have to come back to it in the second term, I fear. But then I'd like to know exactly what he's got in his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u126	That's good. I understand that, too. It is also a rather specific subject. It also has to do with how certain insurances and clinics deal with it in the Netherlands, but in principle the costs involved are between €480 and €930. This is already significant for many Dutch people. That is an even greater amount for Poland, if possible. Now there are clinics that are willing to do so, which voluntarily try to limit it, within the possibilities that exist, but not everyone does. Now I don't have a ready-made solution that I can put on the table here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u127	No, no, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u128	... whether it should be possible with a financial contribution from the Human Rights Fund, or in conversation with. But I'd like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u129	I'd like to take that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u130	You'll get back to me. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u131	Before the Minister moves on to an important issue, Afghanistan, I have just one more detail about a written answer, a response to the questions I had asked about the use of DNA screening kits by China, provided by a Dutch company. The minister writes: "The cabinet seems wise to investigate the facts further before establishing whether additional controls are desirable and effective." "Looks," I think it's cryptic. Is the Cabinet going to investigate what's going on here? If we are talking about using Dutch DNA kits for these practices, does that mean that we are looking at the dual-use list? Because there is room for the Netherlands to take a step. Is that how you want me to interpret that sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u132	First of all, yes. Secondly, it has already stopped, which has been mentioned here in the recent past. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm at the next chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u133	I know that there are still many debates planned around Afghanistan, and so on, so perhaps it is possible to answer this subject as important and broad as it is. Mr Van Dijk has another question on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr President, I understand your desire to conclude, but we have all been very sparing on our precious interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u135	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u136	... also for the block of Afghanistan. If they were to just leave the table, that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u137	No, no, that's not what I'm suggesting either. I'm just trying to narrow it down a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u138	That is a very justified appeal to everyone in this Chamber. I was just wondering, are Israel and Qatar still coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u139	I think they're in the last part. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Is that right? The departure of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr President, I thought I was...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u141	Did you take it off in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u142	Yeah, but that's obviously not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u143	If Mr Van Dijk wishes to ask a question about the written answer, he can, of course, do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u144	Okay. Then I have two questions, because I find it very disappointing what the Minister says about Israel. He says: we are still gathering information about the six human rights organisations that have been cold-bloodedly placed on the terrorist list by Israel. I find that extremely disappointing, and I ask the Minister to look more closely at that. The other point, of course, is about the World Cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u145	First of all, we are going to answer Mr Van Dijk's first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u146	On the first subject: I always try to stay away from the company Pavlov. There is a part that says that the civil society organisation in the Palestinian territories is at the heart, the beating heart of future democracy. There is another group that says: these people, that is completely wrong, because they are against Israel. If you try to stay away from that, you'll come up with a nuanced answer. There's no other way. I see it as follows. We have great difficulty with the settlement policy. We have great difficulty with the way in which people in the Palestinian territories are being cornered. We are convinced that a number of civil society organisations could still be at the heart of something that could create future sense of life. So that's what we cherish. The other side of the coin is that, if we are reminded that something is seriously wrong there, I think we do not have face value to accept and we do have an expensive duty to find out what is going on. That is how we look at it and that is how most countries in the European Union look at it. This means that in advance we do not distrust organisations until proven otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u147	That was a nice answer, with which you stay right in the middle. I find the "firm Pavlov" a bit too easy because this has been going on for weeks, if not longer. I would like to ask the Minister to respond to today's article in the Volkskrant by Shawan Jabarin, "We are too difficult for Israel," an impressive article. But now I'm gonna ask my follow-up question about Qatar, because otherwise I'm gonna lose it and I'm not gonna like it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u148	Your life is hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u149	I have asked the Minister to implement the Karabulut motion, the February SP motion, now that we are qualified for the World Cup. There are serious abuses in Qatar around migrant workers, more than 6,000 dead. The World Cup tournament will take place there. That is possible, but do you agree with me that we should not send an official delegation there, not the king, the prime minister or anyone from that echelon, to prevent painful situations from, for example, the king standing there with a drink with an authority from that region? We shouldn't do that, not as long as the abuses in Qatar haven't been solved. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u150	We are in a hurry, so it must be short, but it does not really lend itself to that, because it is a bit simple to say yes or no. There are a few things that are at stake here, and it is perhaps also exemplary for how we should look at these kinds of issues. Firstly, I note that there has been quite rightly a lot of talk with Qatar in recent years and the accusing finger has been pointed at Qatar. Dealing with people from the Philippines, India and Pakistan was below all standards and led to victims. Unisono created the sound: it can't be. As a result, Qatar is not paradise on earth now, but they have taken measures. They have taken measures. Too little, too late and some will say: it's marketing, they don't mean it. But they feel defensive. So it helped. That is also because there have always been conversations with them and they have been printed on them. I therefore find it rather short-sighted to say, as a gesture of protest, that we are not going anywhere. In addition, I would like to know whether we are going to be alone in this or not. And finally, I might think that's the most important thing, but it's up to everyone. If Mr. Van Dijk walks to his neighbour and says: "I actually think you're no good, but can you water my plants next week, because I'm on vacation for a week?', Then that combination is a pretty tricky one. We need Qatar every day when it comes to getting people out of Afghanistan. We have an interest in an orderly relationship with Qatar. So I am extremely reluctant to take this kind of understandable, symbolic action if we do not take into account a few other components that play a role in it. It's been over a year. Anything can happen. That is why I would plead for that motion to be held. Then Mr Van Dijk knows my hesitations and my considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u151	But I cannot hold the motion at all, because it was adopted in February. That's when...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u152	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u153	...Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u154	Exactly. A majority of the House of Representatives then had to say: do not send an official delegation to the World Cup. The Chamber has spoken and it would adorn the Minister if he says: I have to do so, because that says the majority of the House of Representatives. I understand all the considerations that the Minister has just put forward, also in relation to Afghanistan. But I don't think that's a reason to turn a blind eye. There are serious abuses and we must not hide them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u155	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna explain that last one as a question. We are not concealing that, there is no question of that. We bring it up, we talk about it, two weeks ago we talked about it. There is no question of that; we are trying to apply the pressure on it and we also notice that Qatar is letting it lie. Not that it all looks nice now, but some things have simply improved. Whatever their motives, it is for the people who work there to decide what the result is. So I would like to make that point. Furthermore, I hear very well what Mr Van Dijk has said, and that is something I cannot help noticing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u156	The Minister is going to the subject of Afghanistan. But take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u157	I thought it was a break. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u158	My idea is to really finish the first term, unless you are very keen to cut it now. I don't think that makes any sense. After that we have, if it is right, that I have to consult with the Registry of the House and then we will proceed with the second term. So if you're gonna hang in there for a second, I think it's best. An incentive to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr. Chairman. There are two issues that we need to discuss here when it comes to Afghanistan, also in the knowledge that we are going to come back to this in detail in the future. Mr Van der Staaij has asked for a deeper reflection on what lessons we should learn from this. A number of investigations have been announced, so we will certainly come back to that. One thing I want to say about it, otherwise it seems a little evasive and that is not my intention. Why did we go to Afghanistan? That was for three reasons. One was that our main ally asked for our support. Apart from everything else, you have to come from a good house to refuse. Well, that could be a little tricky, so that's a reason for us. The second was the fight against terrorism. That too was an acute problem at the time. That has also led us to give that support, to ensure that there was a coalition and not to leave America alone. The third reason was the construction of Afghanistan. It's hard for us to change. Once you go there, you can't ignore what you find there. You have something constructive to do with that. We may have exaggerated this in the management of expectations, in the expectations of what we could do there. Before you know it, someone's gonna say the term "nation building" and that's almost hubris. We have done 400, 500 years in the Netherlands about nation building. Then you go to a country that, outside Kabul, lives in the Middle Ages and you think: well, we're going to fix that up in about ten years. That is almost... I also remember whole debates of about eight or nine years ago, in which, for the sake of helping the United States as the main ally in terrorism, we tried to convince parties that we were going to do all kinds of constructive things for Afghanistan itself to build Afghanistan. When you talk about that, you always run the risk of argumenting turning into illusion. Maybe it's an important lesson that we haven't highlighted that difference. I remember discussions about police trainers that we were going to train and that we were going to keep a database to make sure they never joined the army. That's like giving someone a cell phone in Roman times. Those things don't fit. We may have missed that a little too easily, I think. I think that could really be a lesson that we could take to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u160	Thank you for this reflection. It is as the Minister says: it will certainly come back later. However, since it is so far-reaching and we have had such a long-term commitment, I think it is good to give it a few words. I am glad that the Minister wanted to do the same in this debate. My question is as follows. We have always had very intensive discussions in the Chamber: under what conditions can we do what? That was prepared in detail. Actually, I have the idea that sometimes completing that involvement went much faster and less thought-out than the things you were going to do there. Are we not better at thinking very carefully about doing things and sometimes we don't stop things too easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u161	I myself once got my ass kicked by colleagues in the previous cabinet in which I was active, because I had said somewhere... someone asked: how long do you think it would be wise to stay here? Then I said, "Well, I think about a hundred years." I don't think that was what I should have said. But when you're talking about something like that, it's frankly hubris or almost self-overestimating to think that in ten years you can make a difference there that sticks in a way that we're moving towards an orderly rule of law in Afghanistan. Yeah, there's a lot to learn, even for ourselves. Mr President, let me see. We'll get back to the investigation and how we're gonna do it. So I don't have to do that now. A very specific point to which Mrs Piri, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van der Lee asked: the guards of the embassy, as it was in the Volkskrant. It is good to think more precisely about this. Maybe in advance, because this isn't easy: if you set criteria on the basis of which people are actively drawn by us or not, there's always a patch on that line, and if you pull it off, it hurts. Because that dividing line is always somewhere. If we do a little less, it's on a different level. If we do more, it'll be on a different level. But somewhere there's always a line where it hurts. We must continue to realise that. These guards, very specific, belong, of course, to that risk group as defined at the time. That means they have priority if they apply for asylum here. Why are they not now eligible as a group as such? Firstly, they have not been in Dutch service. They were employed by a subcontractor. With this subcontractor, we are simply moving on again. We have agreed to this in principle. Should we get a foothold in another building in Kabul so that it needs to be guarded, we would like to continue with this subcontractor and the people he has. Finally, I would like to add that I also mentioned this at the time, and I am not going to go into that in detail, because that is wrong with the case that we have always wanted to keep room for harrowing cases and that there is a hardness clause. But that is without prejudice to the principle as I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u162	On this point, Mrs Piri has a question, but Mr De Roon has also come forward for a question on Afghanistan on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u163	In my view, this is not a case of distress, but of cases which should simply be assessed under the rules. These are people who for years I know a guard who has worked for the Netherlands for 13.5 years working for the Dutch embassy, with a pass with a Dutch flag on it and with a stamp of the Dutch ministry, there, visibly, protected the Dutch diplomats. It is a group that was already known to all Members of Parliament in August, because we all received an e-mail from those guards in which they wrote: help us. That was one of the reasons why this Chamber adopted the Belhaj motion. Now the cabinet decided at that time not to call these people for evacuation, so when they were just under the rules laid down by this Chamber. At that time, you chose not to call them for evacuation. And now you say: six weeks after that Belhaj motion, we have decided to apply other criteria; these people were not called for evacuation, so they are unlucky. I just can't reach that. Can you imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u164	It's hard for me to introduce myself in front of Mrs. Piri. I am trying to indicate on the basis of which we have defined the criteria and apply them. This also includes a certain fairness towards everyone. Those criteria and the interpretation, the translation, I have just given you. Therefore, although we hope to be able to go further with this subcontractor and its staff, they are not covered by these criteria on the basis of the way in which they have been active. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u165	Now my nugget breaks. It's not about whether these people have a job or not. Besides, these people are still standing in front of that compound guarding the embassy. The Minister knows that. The point is that these people are in mortal danger because of the work they've done for us. That's really another matter. It's not about a job; it's about whether they're sure of their lives. As you know, I went through all those documents of the cabinet very carefully, I say through the President. The criteria state: in a visible function served the Netherlands. Well, if you're a guard with a Dutch pass, it seems to me that this is visible. Another criterion that has been established: have worked for the Netherlands for at least one year. I can imagine the cabinet applying that rule, even now afterwards, to this group. But now saying that people were not directly employed, while we did evacuate the Hungarian embassy security guards, who were not directly employed, really smells like a reason to exclude this group of people. Think about it. We're gonna have a lunch break later. I don't want to have to force the cabinet in a second term by means of a motion. I hope you will simply say in the debate that this group has been misjudged and you are reviewing the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u166	I can only repeat myself with the small addition that the people who received a call before 26 August or left the country were never qualified for criteria that we would later apply. We have all established and concluded with each other that we did not have the luxury at all in that panic phase to see who is eligible and who is not. Sometimes in quotes, wrong people were taken under the motto "Sorry, we don't have time right now; get on the plane and get out." Then you end up in the second phase of the programme, and we talked about that at the time, and we are going to look carefully at what criteria you can define in all fairness how you apply these criteria. Mrs Piri talks about the guards, who are in danger on the one hand, and on the other hand still monitor the compound daily. We have already established the following. If people were directly in Dutch service, we wouldn't normally do that; embassy staff were never brought here in the past. There's something different about this. The subcontractor also monitors other things, not just the Dutch embassy. There is also evidently no employment with the Netherlands, but an employment with the subcontractor, with whom we also continue, including his staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u167	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u168	Finally, Mr President. I can already see here the harbinger of what the Netherlands is going to do next. We are no longer going to hire interpreters directly; everyone is going to hire them through a subcontractor, so that we never have any obligations. Those are not the appointments made with this Chamber. Does the Minister admit that he has now added a criterion to the October letter? There were two criteria: visible to the Netherlands and employed for at least one year. Here is the criterion: directly employed by the Netherlands. Does that also apply to all the Defense personnel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u169	Yes, apart from the fact that there is also room at the Department of Defense to always look in individual cases for what I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mr De Roon has another question. First Mr Van Roon and then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u171	It concerns the freezing of Afghan assets, as imposed by the United Nations. The Minister answered a question I did not ask. He asked whether De Nederlandsche Bank had such funds, but I had asked if banks in the Netherlands had such funds and how many.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u172	That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u173	That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u174	Then the answer should have been: as far as we know, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u175	Yeah, "as far as we know." But did you ask De Nederlandsche Bank, for example, or the banks if they have such funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u176	That was checked with De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u177	Here's what I'm asking for. If there are such assets that are frozen in the Netherlands and that freeze is lifted at some point by the United Nations, that could be a political decision that is simply motivated, then we could still know whether those assets cannot simply be seized under Dutch law, on the basis of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Organisations. But if we don't know anything about such assets, then the story of course ends. But then my question is whether we are sure that there are no funds from Afghanistan in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u178	We have heard from De Nederlandsche Bank that there are none.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u179	The Minister's answer. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u180	I would like to come back to the interrupting debate that Mrs Piri had with the Minister. I find it very problematic that the interpretation of the criteria agreed with the Chamber is stricter than what is on paper. I'm gonna put that in a national context anyway. In the case of the premium affair, legislation has been introduced which, in an all-or-nothing approach, has been applied much more strictly than has been made clear, including to Parliament. We can't work together like this. If the interpretation from the outset was that "one year of employment" means only and exclusively a direct employment with the Dutch government, it should have been shared with the Chamber at that time. We know that the Defence Line has also brought in people who were also subject to a sub-contractor. I therefore call on the Minister to come back to this and to relate to the proper communication with the Chamber. We need to know from each other what we mean and not come up against each other afterwards, with different interpretations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u181	I agree. I think that's right. What it was about that year in service, that's where we were talking about the NGOs. With the NGOs, it was more difficult, strictly speaking, to indicate exactly where you draw the line, how you define criteria. That ratio is by definition already looser, which is why we have formulated the criteria in such a way that the NGOs could work with them. That is what they have made clear to us and we have been able to work with them. That's how it started. We have never had the idea that a security company in Afghanistan with which we had a contract was an NGO as we talked about it. That is why it was not an element for us to have played a role in this discussion in this way, so I would also like to correct that misunderstanding. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u182	The last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u183	The last part is the consular department. I can be brief about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u184	Do you have a question about Afghanistan, Mr. Brekelmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u185	Yeah, I have a quick question about Afghanistan. In fact, since the withdrawal, it has been said by both the Netherlands and the United States and NATO that we will continue to ensure that Afghanistan does not become a free haven for international terrorism again. Now I have always asked how this will be implemented. Are there any plans for the moment of withdrawal? We've been about five or six months since the withdrawal started. I see in replying to the written questions that there is still no concrete plan, at least that is what it looks like. I would like to ask the Minister whether we are working on this and how far we are going with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u186	Certainly, but here we also depend on the steps taken by the United States. They are doing all kinds of things themselves, but for the rest, namely taking the allies in those steps and the question of what that means for coordination, we also depend on what America is doing. So that's what we're doing. They're working on it, but we're not in the lead. Which makes that a little longer than you might normally think. The Americans are on top of it for all kinds of valid reasons, but we depend on their pace and the extent to which they involve the other countries. This goes step by step and sometimes only through the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u187	I have a question about the security guards who work for the subcontractor and who may therefore work for us again through that subcontractor, as the minister just indicated. What if there are people in there who are threatened and who have worked for us for 13 years, for example? That doesn't have to be all those people, does it, but is it a good idea for a cabinet to look at that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u188	As I said, I'm not going to discuss that at individual level. I do not think that is appropriate either, but we have always said that we realise that this cannot work without a hardness clause. So there is. Then the last piece of consular. In particular, Mr Sjoerdsma asked for this. We have recently had a committee debate on the whole consular aspect. In particular, he asked whether we could speed up the digitalisation of consular services. We do, and we're working on it, but we're doing it step by step. Large-scale ICT projects flown from above may not be the absolute unique selling point of a government, so we need to be a little careful about that. But we're doing that one step at a time, and we're doing okay. I promised Mr Sjoerdsma that I would inform him in writing, so that will also be the case. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about Dutch people who are in need of the stranger and how we can share that with each other. To be honest, I am very reluctant to do so because, if you want to help people abroad who are mangled by a foreign government, it often helps much better to do so with silent diplomacy, because loss of face for a foreign government often leads to cramps rather than moving along. Moreover, although this is perhaps of minor importance in this case, sometimes people's privacy plays a role. Finally, I promised Mr Sjoerdsma that it would be useful to change the way in which the security of the posts is financed. He was afraid that if we spend more money on posts, then it would be higher security costs, because the world would become more dangerous, leaving nothing for those posts. He recommended the German method. Honestly, I didn't know that one, but luckily people in my department did. This German method is not really going to help us, because the Germans, with a one-off exception, have in fact always met additional security costs within their own budget. So for this, we really need to come up with something else. I'll highly recommend that, should I run into an informant on the street sometime these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u189	Thank you. Mr Ceder has just the floor for a question and for Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u190	To prevent me from having to use the second term for this. You have answered my questions about the Envoy of Faith at national and European level. As you may know, there are still questions as to whether the mandate of the Envoy of the Faith in the Netherlands is due to expire. I don't think so. I would like the Minister to give me the undertaking that the mandate will simply be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u191	There is no misunderstanding: the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u192	Then there is Mr Van der Lee on an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u193	Yes. I have made an amendment together with Mr Piri, but I withdraw it because it has proved to me that it is better to table a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u194	The Van der Lee/Piri amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u195	Then we came to the end of the first term of the cabinet. Contrary to what I just said, we'll continue with the Foreign Affairs budget debate after lunch, after consultation with the Plenair Registry. There is no doubt that there are reasons for this. So I'm gonna suspend for half an hour. Then we'll continue with the second term of office at 1.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u196	We shall continue with the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget. We'll start with the second term of office. As the first speaker, I have the floor: Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u197	Mr. Chairman. In the course of the budget handling of Foreign Affairs, it is a tradition for the PVV to submit a motion again and again on the Dutch Embassy in Israel. A good old man, you might say. I'm gonna let them come back now. The text reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Jerusalem is the capital of Israel;]] [[calls on the government to move the Dutch embassy of Tel Aviv to Jerusalem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u198	Then the next motion. The Minister pointed out that Article 21a is being applied to Gambia when it comes to taking back people who do not belong here but in Gambia. I think that's a little skinny. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain countries refuse to take their nationals back;]] [[calls on the government to make hard and repeated (diplomatic) action against refuse countries a new core element of our foreign policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u199	Then I come to Europe and the Strategic Compass, which is being drawn up for foreign and security policy. The PVV has a lot of doubts about how that will end. The Minister states that there will be no majority decision-making on the use of European armed forces, but we know how it works in Europe. There's gonna be a lot of pressure to get involved anyway. We shouldn't want any of that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas we should not give up our foreign and security policy;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose the EU Strategic Compass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u200	On Afghanistan, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 20 years of engagement with Afghanistan have shown that Western and democratic values cannot be imposed from above;]] [[whereas tribal and Islamic societies, such as Afghanistan, are generally not or hardly susceptible to reforms in this area;]] [[calls on the Government to stop immediately all ongoing military and aid programmes aimed at (partly) building the rule of law and democracy in Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u201	On Iranian drones, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Iranian Revolutionary Guard drones deliver to terror groups such as Hezbollah, Hamas and the woodhi rebels;]] [[Whereas Iranian drones and their proliferation pose an increasing threat to Dutch military and international shipping in the Middle East;]] [[whereas the US has already imposed targeted sanctions against Iranian individuals and companies because of this threat;]] [[calls on the government to seek support from other European countries for similar sanctions against Iran for this disruptive drone policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u202	I would add that the Minister has made it clear that we must try to reduce our dependence on the US. That is not a bad idea in itself, but we should not let go of the US either. The Minister also stressed this. I therefore believe that we should not leave the US alone when it comes to sanctions of this kind, but that we should simply go along with it and see for ourselves whether we can also impose sanctions on Iran. That's not entirely out of the blue. I have read, for example, that rocket engines produced in the Netherlands are small rocket engines, but have nevertheless been found in certain weapons used by the terrorists in the Middle East. We really need to avoid that, even when it comes to these drones. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u203	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u204	First of all, I would like to thank all the members of this Chamber and the Minister for the congratulations I have received on my maiden speech, and for all the warm words that have been expressed in it in response to what I have said about my personal situation. At least I know our little girl watched this morning, no matter how small she is. She will one day appreciate that my words have been received so warmly by you. In my maiden speech I especially considered the impact that events in the world can have on people in the Netherlands, and on how that has personally touched me. I have also considered that, given all the threats and instability in the world, it is even more important to protect ourselves as the Netherlands against them. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reflection on this at the beginning of his reply. One of the important threats I've considered is China's. I stressed the importance of making us more independent from China and reducing the dependencies that exist to ensure that we are also able to make an economic fist against China. As far as I am concerned, this calls for a broad agenda and continuous attention and has a great deal of urgency. That is why I have made the proposal to at least start preparations for a task force, and to examine what is needed to target them. I would also like to thank the Minister for his response and for the fact that he embraces that plea. He sees that this calls for a broad agenda, not only from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but wider than that. But the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can play a coordinating role in this. Then there's safety. We have considered the situation in Belarus, on the border between the European Union and Belarus, and how important it is that there should now be strong pressure in the short term to ensure that human trafficking and the situation with migrants cease as soon as possible. With the winter period approaching, this cannot last for a number of months. We in the European Union must also show that we are not being blackmailed. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Belarus flies in migrants, including through air carrier Belavia, and then pushes across borders to put pressure on the EU;]] [[Whereas the Foreign Affairs Council has announced additional sanctions against organisations and persons involved in these trafficking of human beings, but the precise content of these sanctions is not yet known;]] [[Whereas previous sanctions against Belarus have not had the desired effect;]] [[Whereas the use of migrants as leverage should stop as soon as possible and it should be clear to countries in the ring around Europe that the EU does not accept this;]] [[calls on the government within the EU to promote secondary sanctions against Belavia, which may also impose sanctions on organisations doing business with Belavia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Brekelmans, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u205	In addition to pressure on Belarus and on Belavia, it is also important to put pressure on countries of origin to ensure that they do not cooperate in this trafficking of human beings, but that they also take migrants back. I also asked the Minister about this and asked him whether he would like to work in the European Union to ensure that the European Union uses its economic power as a means of exerting pressure. In any case, I was pleased to hear from the Minister that he also does not think that we can welcome on the basis of these initial signals, and that, as far as he is concerned, the European Union continues to make every effort to use economic means of pressure. Another threat we've been talking about is cyber. In particular, I think it is important that we ensure that we are prepared for the worst scenarios and that we do not start thinking about how to respond to them at the time of a cyber attack. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must also have been properly addressed. Because simulations are already taking place, cyber exercises are already taking place, but what do we, as the Netherlands, do with our allies against the rest of the world? We need to anticipate this as best we can. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the Threat Statue, state actors are in preparation for digital sabotage in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is important that the Netherlands is well prepared for any attack;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up and practice a roadmap with cyber-attack scenarios, including diplomatic response, and, in an alliance context, call for a roadmap to quickly arrive at an allergic reaction in the event of a cyber attack,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Brekelmans, Mr Ceder and Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u206	Than Afghanistan. We've talked about that widely. What worries me is that, in view of the recent discussion and the latest letters sent by the government on this subject, little is being said about what we are doing to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a free haven for international terrorism. We cannot wait too long to have a clear approach to this, because once terrorist groups have taken root, it becomes all the more complicated to deal with them. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a risk that Afghanistan will become a base for international terrorism;]] [[whereas the importance of a good intelligence position and the capacity to deal with threats from a distance is discussed within NATO;]] [[noting that the Cabinet letters on the engagement around Afghanistan contain no plans or ideas on how to shape this or what contribution the Netherlands can make;]] [[calls on the Government to make an alliance effort to ensure that Afghanistan is not once again a base for international terrorism, to propose proposals to this effect, and to inform the Chamber of progress on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Brekelmans, Mr Ceder and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u207	Finally, I talked about the influence of foreign threats on our freedom in the Netherlands. It's strange that espionage as we actually experience it on a daily basis is not yet punishable by our law. The Minister, on behalf of the Cabinet, in reply to the written questions, indicated that the aim was to send a proposal to the Chamber at the beginning of 2022. Now that ball has been on half the cabinet for some time and I know from experience that if on paper it says 'to strive for the beginning', which can be from January to June. It may also be said that "it was a goal" and then it is lifted over the summer. Can the Minister indicate more specifically when this bill will come to the Chamber, preferably with a specific month, so that we know when we can expect it in early spring 2022? In addition, I have advocated a public register for organisations and people who appear neutral, but in fact are employed or commissioned by a foreign power. Australia is a good example of this, but the question is whether this can be done in the Netherlands, or whether it can be done with our regulations. I would like to receive more information on this from the cabinet in the short term. That is why I shall end by tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is insufficient insight into the influence of representatives of authoritarian states in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas Australia has a compulsory public register for "agents of foreign influence";]] [[having noted the commitment of the Cabinet to engage with these countries on their experiences by the end of 2020;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make proposals for a public register in the Netherlands for "agents of foreign influence" on the basis of these experiences in 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Brekelmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u208	There you go. Eight minutes of speaking time. I'd like that. Oh, it goes back to three real fast. But that's for the next speaker. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. There are many issues that deserve further debate, for example Afghanistan. I ask the Minister: when is this inquiry, the independent investigation into 20 years of war in Afghanistan? See my April motion. Then there is the other point concerning Afghanistan. Mr Belhaj's motion is being eroded step by step. I can't say otherwise if you're not gonna evacuate guards because they weren't in the service, but because they were contractors. That is not possible, especially if they have worked for the Dutch for many years. That was the thrust of the motion: help the people who helped us. What's happening now isn't okay. We are going to make sure that we come back to this in an extensive debate next week. Mr. Chairman. Qatar. The February SP motion was crystal clear: no official delegation to Qatar because of the abuses, because of the exploitation in that country of migrant workers, with more than 6,000 deaths. The Minister's got a bit of a twist on it. He can simply say: of course, if that is the wish of the Chamber, I will carry it out and we will not send an official delegation. Now, this is a motion that is perfectly enforceable. So I would say: take this; it is the will of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Two motions, first of all on the Strategic Compass. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Commission is working on a Strategic Compass with far-reaching proposals on European defence;]] [[noting that the Strategic Compass has only been kept confidential, which makes a full and transparent debate impossible;]] [[calls on the Government to pursue full transparency on the Strategic Compass and not to take irreversible steps until then,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u209	Mr. Chairman. The final motion is about nuclear weapons. I must confess that because of time I have not been able to mention this point in my first term, but those who follow the debate know about my position: nuclear weapons have to leave the world, starting from the Netherlands. Perhaps the Minister was also present at that fine big demonstration in 1981. A fantastic UN treaty against nuclear weapons has been adopted. Unfortunately, the Netherlands has not yet signed that treaty. I have a very modest question with this motion: be present at the conference on that treaty. That's all, Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas international law has been complemented by the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which is being ratified by a growing number of countries;]] [[Notes that a first conference on this UN Convention will take place in Vienna in March 2022, where NATO ally Norway has decided to be present as an observer;]] [[calls on the Government, like Norway, to participate as an observer in the first session of the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u210	I'd say take that opportunity, Minister. These are two fine motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u211	Thank you to Mr Van Dijk. I call Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u212	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. He talked in his introduction about the cart track that still occasionally pierces between the asphalt. I would also like to warn him of another cart track, the cart track of international law and human rights, which threatens to be tarmaced by autocracy worldwide. He said in his first term that it was dangerous to always be principled, because then you are rarely relevant. The opposite is of course also true: if you are never principled, you have a very big problem. I would like to point out to him two things in which the Netherlands has been very principled, firstly when drafting the Magnitsky sanctions law. That came from this room, too. The previous cabinet was opposed to that. That is what has come; it is an important instrument. I would also like to remind him of one of his predecessors, Mr Verhagen, an example of me in that regard. He went against a large part of the Chamber and against all the other European Member States for six months on his own, unilaterally, to ensure that Mladić, a war criminal, ended up here in The Hague. That man, the war criminal, came here and was tried here. So I would argue for that balance, together where it can be done, but sometimes it has to be done alone. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I am sure that the Minister and I do not differ very much on this. I shall table three motions from my hand. First of all. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Chinese government has placed more than 1 million Uighurs in mass and arbitrary detention in Eastern Turkestan;]] [[Whereas a majority in the House of Representatives has declared that genocide is taking place in China on the Uighur minority;]] [[Considering that the fundamental principles of the preservation of human dignity, solidarity and non-discrimination of the Olympic Charter are difficult to reconcile with the holding of the 2022 Winter Olympic Games in a country whose government is crediblely accused of crimes against humanity and genocide;]] [[calls on the government not to send a government delegation to the Winter Olympics 2022 in China,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u213	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in some regions of Europe freedoms are under severe pressure from repressive legislation and a shrinking civil society;]] [[Whereas this affects the lhbti community and women seeking to abort their pregnancy disproportionately;]] [[believes that it can now be seen that human rights funds will be needed for this in Europe in the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the use of these funds in the Human Rights Fund in the period 2022-2027 for LHbti and women's rights, such as affordable access to safe abortion, and other vulnerable groups in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u214	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there has been a devastating conflict in northern Ethiopia since the end of 2020 and this conflict is spreading like an oil spill across large parts of the country;]] [[Considering that, in view of current developments, Ethiopia is unable to meet the arms export criteria set out in the European Union's Common Position and all contracts pose a further risk for further escalation of the conflict;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a European arms embargo for Ethiopia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u216	Thank you to Mr Sjoerdsma. I call Mrs Piri of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also, of course, to the Minister on my behalf. It is always pleasant to be able to have substantive discussions with you. Yesterday I forgot to mention it during all the lows we experienced then: thanks to Theo van Toor. I wish him every success. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Taliban are guilty of, among other things, executions and corporal punishments;]] [[Whereas it is very important that facts about such and future human rights violations are collected independently;]] [[calls on the Government, in the context of the work of the UN Special Rapporteur for Afghanistan, to promote the establishment of a evidence bank and, should this not lead to results, to identify other ways in which the Netherlands can support such an initiative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u218	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that European sanctions packages against the Lukashenko regime did not lead to a decrease in trade between the Netherlands and Belarus;]] [[Whereas this may undermine the purpose of these sanctions, namely to isolate Lukashenko;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify trade flows between Belarus and the EU and between Belarus and the Netherlands and to address the loopholes in the law to avoid European sanctions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey and Poland are withdrawing from the Istanbul Convention;]] [[noting that ten European countries, including six EU countries, have signed the Convention but have not yet ratified it;]] [[Whereas the Istanbul Convention plays a crucial role in preventing and combating (domestic) violence against girls and women;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a diplomatic offensive to defend and promote the Istanbul Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Ceder, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-30]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u219	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the event of major aggression, both Article 5 of the NATO Treaty and Article 42.7 TEU may apply;]] [[whereas not all conflicts at the borders of Europe immediately lead to the invoking of Article 5 of NATO, but require a European response;]] [[calls on the Government to include in future discussions on the European Compass in order to extend Article 42.7 to hybrid threats and clarify the instruments available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u221	Thank you, Mrs Piri. I call Mrs Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister for replying and through the Minister also thanks to the officials and all the people in the posts for their commitment. In my first term I talked about the world and the panels that are shifting. The Minister spoke of a reorientation. I think that is indeed the case. This will also be looked back at later in history. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to Egypt and to climate diplomacy and for strengthening links with the world's largest democracy, India. The Minister has responded to this. In my opinion, Mr Timmermans from the European Commission could perhaps have been even more active in the front. It seemed as if we had been overwhelmed by the questions that came on the table at once, while these noises, as I hear my colleagues in the Interparliamentary Union, have been going around for a few years. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled an amendment on the increased cyber threat by state actors. I would like to thank the Minister for his judgment of the Chamber. We're good at this. We can also strengthen ourselves further in this respect for the benefit of our coalitions. I think the move we're about to make is very good. Unfortunately, it's not a move out of luxury, but because we really have to do it now. Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports Mr Ceder's amendment in favour of religious minorities. I have submitted this with great conviction. Victims deserve our support and protection. I am also a co-author of Mr Sjoerdsma's amendment on sanctions and the strengthening of a structural national and international structure to further shape this. Then I come to the unrest from Belarus. I asked the Minister if it was an option to also support Poland in military terms. The Minister indicated that the offer has been made and remains in place to do so in European or other contexts. I appreciate that. We sometimes criticize Poland from our Parliament, but we also have to show that we are on the same side with all the values we share at times when it gets exciting. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on Belarus. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the regime in Belarus continues to oppress its own population;]] [[Whereas the Belarusian opposition finds a safe place to stay abroad and, in particular, to maintain opposition from the Baltic States and continue to expose abuses of the regime;]] [[Whereas support for the Belarusian opposition in exile, civil society and free media is an important response to finding and organising a crucial majority of the Belarusian population to stop the regime;]] [[calls on the Government to contact the Belarusian opposition in the Baltic States in the very short term, to examine what they need in the conduct of opposition in Belarus and the disclosure of abuses of the regime, and to support them in these needs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Ceder, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu, Mr Dassen, Mr Piri and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u223	I am very happy that there is such broad support from this Chamber for this club brave people. For they really do carry out a difficult task and they can really receive this support from us. I think that is a very nice outcome to our trip to the Baltic States. Finally, Mr President. I have co-signed a number of motions, including the motion on the Palestinian NGOs. The motion on Taiwan was actually a motion with colleague Van der Staaij. In the past, the CDA and the SGP have also tabled joint motions on this subject. Finally, I co-signed a motion on the evidence bank. I think we should be grateful that we can exchange views in this democracy. Sometimes that sands, but let's keep on appealing to each other and setting boundaries. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u224	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I call Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister. I very much appreciate that he does not shy away from the debate and is willing to move towards opposition parties as well. At one point I have missed that, namely the guards, which we have said a lot about. I hope that in the second term the Minister will promise to look at that again, because it cannot be that we now have a different interpretation of criteria that we have agreed with the Chamber. There are two points on which I would like to make a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rule of law is under pressure in several Member States;]] [[Whereas the European Union's core values on the rule of law, fundamental rights and the strengthening of democracy are vital and should be continuously promoted;]] [[Whereas civil society, NGOs and lawyers' collectives in these Member States who promote freedom of the press, democracy and the rule of law play an important role in these Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to support these types of organisations in these Member States with additional financial resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u226	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the illegal settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem constitute a serious obstacle to the two-state solution;]] [[Whereas companies active in illegal settlements contribute to the maintenance and expansion of the settlement economy;]] [[Considering that the UN database makes an important contribution to raising awareness and research on the impact of illegal settlements;]] [[calls on the government to commit political and financial support to the UN database,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u227	I have also signed a number of motions from colleagues. I'm not going to explain them all. They're doing just fine. With one exception, I believe that Mr Kuzu is going to table another motion on the NGOs that Israel has designated as terrorist organisations. I hope the Minister is prepared to take a positive view of this. Thanks to his staff and again to Theo. I conclude my words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u228	Thank you. Mr Cedar, Christian Union. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for exchanging views. I have a number of motions and a supplementary question. First of all, on Papua. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Amnesty International has reported, in the last three years alone, 96 deaths due to violence by Indonesian security forces or police in Papua;]] [[Whereas journalists and human rights organisations have not yet been granted access to the area;]] [[Considering that in 2018 Indonesian President Widodo promised to allow the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to visit West Papua, but that this has not yet been done, nor does the UN Human Rights Organisation have access to it;]] [[calls on the government to facilitate a visit of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Bachelet to West Papua bilaterally and in EU contacts with Indonesia and to draw attention to human rights in West Papua in the UN (Universal Periodic Review) of Indonesia in the Human Rights Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder, Mr Piri and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u230	Then to Azerbaijan. We have noted from the written answer that it is still unclear for our Minister exactly what is happening. That's why we're making a motion on a fact-finding investigation. But we do know what is happening in Azerbaijan itself, not what is happening at the border, but in the country itself. There will soon be discussions on the Eastern Partnership. I do wonder whether, in the context of more for more for more and less for less, we can impose targeted sanctions here too or draw consequences for human rights violations. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Minister states that the facts concerning the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan are not clear;]] [[Whereas it is necessary for an objective and impartial assessment of the conflict to have the correct information on the actual events and situation;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself within the European Union to an independent investigation into the facts of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan and to inform the Court as soon as possible of the outcome of this effort,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u231	With regard to more for more and less for less with regard to the Eastern Partnership, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU is a community of values;]] [[Considering that Azerbaijan has significant human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, etc. shortages, and continues to slip;]] [[Whereas Azerbaijan is still holding Armenian prisoners of war;]] [[Whereas, on 15 December, Azerbaijan's progress in the EU-Eastern Partnership is on the agenda, but the values of the EU and Azerbaijan are far apart from those of the above;]] [[calls on the Government to make an impact on the negotiations under the Eastern Partnership between the EU and Azerbaijan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u232	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u233	Thank you, Mr Ceder. Mr Van Houwelingen has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u234	I see no less than ten minutes, thank you for that, Mr President, but I will not make it that long. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given. For the past three days we have actually crossed the swords a little bit about, what I would like to mention, the Latvian issue. I had the impression that it wasn't on his retina at first, but given the written answers we received, hopefully that has changed. I am also very much looking forward to the further answers he is going to give to our written questions in about a week's time. I have three motions. I also brought a present for my colleague Sjoerd Sjoerdsma and that concerns the book he referred to yesterday. That's the first book I've written, titled Incontemporary, with the beautiful cover of Caspar David Friedrich. Mr Sjoerdsma had some unkind words to say about it that I will not repeat here now. I do not blame him, because he bases himself on a piece in the NRC. Perhaps it is equally relevant to quote this in the second term. Don't worry, I won't be long, Mr. Chairman. Why is that relevant? We have also discussed democracy and freedom of the press. NRC wrote that piece five years ago. Mr Sjoerdsma and I knew each other at that time, although he may have forgotten that. That piece was about the referendum on the Association Treaty. We won that referendum and our movement emerged from it. The NRC wasn't too happy about that and then started digging. They wrote a really disgusting piece about this book that didn't add up. It's not the first time they've done that. They have done the same to another colleague of ours, Mr Omtzigt. They also wrote such a piece about him and it was then removed from the MH17 file. That was also very well refuted by the GeenStijl website. I myself rejected it with a piece I wrote entitled "The Stasi Techniques of the NRC." That piece is also on our website and I will add it for Mr Sjoerd Sjoerdsma. That piece sums it up well; what the NRC is doing is extremely bad, namely trying to demonise critical voices and thus expressing them out of the debate. I'll add that piece for you to the book, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I also wrote a nice piece for you in the front of the book. I'll bring it to you or maybe the messenger can pass it along. I now come to my three motions for resolutions on the debate. The first two motions are intended to encourage the Minister on the Latvian issue. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Latvian parliamentarians have expelled their unvaccinated fellow parliamentarians from Parliament;]] [[Whereas these parliamentarians cannot now vote, cannot participate in the democratic process for which they have been elected and no longer receive salary;]] [[whereas there has thus been a massive violation of parliamentary democracy in an EU Member State;]] [[calls on the Minister for Foreign Affairs to refer his Latvian colleague to the General Affairs Council next week and to report back to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u235	Then I have a second motion. The recital is the same, so I am not going to read it again. The motion ends with: calls on the Government to summon the Latvian Ambassador as soon as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to summon the Latvian Ambassador as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u236	Then there is the last motion, a more general motion to emphasize that we believe that foreign policy should be based on the Dutch interest. We consider this to be extremely important, and in our opinion it has been very little discussed yesterday and today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that, even as regards Dutch policy abroad, there is no greater importance than the Dutch interest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u238	Thank you. Mr Dassen van Volt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions. Unfortunately, in the area of journalists and press freedom, which is under pressure worldwide, the answer is not satisfactory to me. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that journalists are becoming increasingly involved in life-threatening situations;]] [[noting that the Netherlands currently does not offer a solution to journalists in acute life-threatening situations;]] [[Considering that in 2022 the Netherlands, together with Canada, is chairman of the Media Freedom Coalition, and Canada has already committed to providing protection to 250 human rights defenders per year, including journalists;]] [[calls on the Government to provide protection to 50 journalists in acute danger of life plus their family members per year, and to consider, per case, when the danger of life has passed and they can return to their home country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u240	Thank you to Mr Dassen. Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u241	Mr. Chairman. I will not complain about reviews by the NRC Handelsblad. They must always be free and sometimes there are truths in them. I thank the Minister for the pleasant debate we have had, very informative as well. There was one question left about NGOs and the Ministry. I don't think it's been answered. For the sake of time, I will include them in a written question. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is in the Dutch interest that the Polish-White-Russian border is adequately monitored;]] [[calls on the government to support the Polish Government in relation to the migration crisis at the Polish-Russian border,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u242	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u243	Thank you, Mr Eppink. I call Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and put two motions for resolutions and ask one more question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that fundamental human rights are widely and grossly violated in North Korea, including in the form of arbitrary detention, torture and slave labour;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts at international level to combat this injustice, while exploring, at European level, the possibilities of putting more pressure on or holding to account those responsible for these human rights violations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Taiwan has a legitimate desire for meaningful participation in international organisations, and the Court has asked the Government to seek support in the EU for Taiwan's participation in international organisations;]] [[whereas Taiwan is not only an important business partner of the Netherlands and the EU, but also an ally in the fight against international (cyber) crime;]] [[calls on the Government, together with similar countries, to explore the possibilities of supporting Taiwan's request to be an observer at the General Assembly and to participate in Interpol meetings and training programmes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u245	My supplementary question concerns the mandate of the Committee of Inquiry set up in May on Israel's action. We agree that there is a great deal to be said about this mandate, that it is not balanced and that the duration is different from what is customary. The Minister says in his reply: the decision has been taken, and we must accept it. My question is: when, in the opinion of the Cabinet, is the time to call that mandate into question again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u246	Thank you to Mr Van der Staaij. Finally, Mr Kuzu. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u247	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply in the first term. If you're gonna close the line, you're gonna have to come up with some really good moves. We made it. I'll read them right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the civil area for human rights organisations is under global pressure;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands plays an international leading role in supporting and financing human rights organisations, including in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories;]] [[noting that Israel has recently identified six Palestinian NGOs, including three supported by the Netherlands, as "terrorist organisations";]] [[Whereas, in view of the seriousness and possible consequences of the accusation of support to terrorism, the Government considers "very important to support a possible accusation with evidence that is understandable to the accused and his or her lawyers and is reviewed by a judge";]] [[calls on the Government to stick to this democratic and constitutional starting point in supporting and financing humanitarian and human rights organisations in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories and to continue to be guided by it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kuzu, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Simons, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Dassen, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u248	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Bosnian-Serbian President Milorad Dodik recently said that the genocide in Srebrenica never took place in the period 11 July to 18 July 1995 and called Bosnia a "miscarriage";]] [[Whereas tension is increasing in Bosnia, as Dodik is taking more and more concrete steps to separate the Serbian part of Bosnia;]] [[calls on the Foreign Minister to make an urgent plea at EU level in which he calls on his colleagues to renounce Dodik's statements;]] [[calls on the cabinet to advocate in the European Union a sanction package aimed directly at Milorad Dodik and his power circle to keep pressure on the Bosnian-Serbian section without affecting the people of Bosnia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kuzu, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Piri, Mr Dassen, Mr Simons, Mr Ceder and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u249	Mr. Chairman. Then I have one final motion. I can imagine the Minister saying that he belongs to the external trade and development cooperation budget. Then I would like to hear it; then I will keep it and put it to the vote after the debate on Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I will compensate for the time with another budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Dutch companies provide products and services to China, which are used for the genocide on Uighurs;]] [[Calls on the Government to make an inventory of companies providing products and services to China that are directly or indirectly related to the execution of ethnic cleansing on Uighurs;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of a package of measures including, on the one hand, preventive measures informing companies about what their products and services are used for and, on the other hand, repressive measures such as an export ban on those products and services;]] [[calls on the Government to find support within the European Union for the adoption of similar measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u251	Thank you, Mr Kuzu. 34 motions have been tabled. The Minister has to give those 34 motions a ruling, so I'm suspending until 3:05 p.m. Then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u252	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u253	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you for all the input, the questions, the motions and the thinking. Mr. Chairman. I try to answer the questions briefly and then pass the motions. There are a lot of them these days, I understand. Sorry, first the amendments and then the motions. The questions. Mr Brekelmans asked if I could be more specific about the further criminalisation of espionage. When's that gonna happen? I can only say "early 2022," if only because our department is not about it. We depend on Justice and Security, and they must therefore state that date. But this does help to speed things up. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked when there would be clarity about the investigation into 20 years of Afghanistan, the major investigation. We have already said a few things about this in the state of play letter. We're working on that. That sounds like a death killer, but it is. You have to do that right, because an investigation over such a long period of time is a really great job. Before someone, an institution, is going to commit to something like this, it's going to take some time, because it just means a huge breach of the time seizure of a large number of people. So it's not settled overnight. But it seems that it might be possible to clarify this quickly. Then Mr Van der Lee asked if we could look again at the subject of the guards of our embassy in Afghanistan. We have, of course, looked at this in detail. In my view, the criteria are clear and I do not really have much to add to what we have exchanged in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u254	I expected Mr Van der Lee earlier, Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u255	I didn't have time to go through with this in my two minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u256	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u257	I find that disappointing, and so does the Minister. Together with me, many political groups here in the Chamber think so. I would therefore ask you not to make the decision final until we have discussed this before Christmas as a Chamber in the forthcoming plenary debate on Afghanistan. That's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u258	Two things. Of course, the Chamber is about its own agenda, so who am I to interfere? However, I should like to make it clear that my answer to Mr Van der Lee was not intended to be a death-killer either. As far as defence is concerned and as far as the military mission is concerned, it is about... Look, our Defense has been active in the field for 20 years, militarily visible in the field. Here too, we are talking about a select group, to quote Mr Kamp in the debate. He said there that people with a particular monitoring function could be included. It concerns people who were also visible to the public and people who also meet a number of other criteria. So it's a select group. The 195 guards of our embassy are still important to the Taliban at the moment, because the embassy building simply needs to be guarded. That's guarded by those people, too. That Volkskrant article referred to the asylum agency, which gives opinions, otherwise non-binding ones. This has also highlighted the risk to guards from military institutions. We have therefore looked into this, but of course the Chamber is going over its own agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u259	Another question on this point, because it comes very precisely and because language in this matter is essential and also the interpretation of what has been agreed. I believe that an agreement has already been made that there will be a further plenary debate. My request to the Minister is that he writes down the criteria and what is the literal interpretation of the cabinet. Then we in the Chamber know exactly what the cabinet thinks and we can relate more precisely to it than we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u260	That seems to me to be a request for clarity in the debate and for efficiency, so I am happy to do so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk had another question following that motion on Qatar. I made the amateur mistake of talking about arresting this, when that motion was adopted a long time ago. Sorry about that. What was agreed at the time is to keep it under consideration. I think that, given the fact that we have another year to go, I would also like to give you the suggestion in reply, although I understand that Mr Van Dijk could not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u261	That's what we're gonna hear. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u262	It is funny, because the government said at first: we are going to take this under consideration, because the Netherlands is not yet qualified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u263	That doesn't apply anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u264	That bump, as everyone knows, passed the day before yesterday. So this looks a little like "what excuse is being thought of again not taking a position?" Minister, the Chamber has been clear. I'd say run it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u265	Without wanting to have a long debate, because then I repeat, I do not consider it an excuse, because I have indicated what criteria there are, what considerations there may be and what can change between now and November, which we also have to take into account. That is why my suggestion is to do what my predecessor said here, namely to keep it under consideration. Mr. Chairman. Mr Eppink had asked for my opinion on NGOs. He quoted me ten years ago. Once upon a time there was a writer who said: never remind me of the words I wrote, but in this case I still agree with myself, I will just give Mr Eppink a moment. I discovered, when I last had the portfolio of development cooperation, that we gave money to non-governmental organisations of a size that allowed you to leave out "non-" because they no longer had a basis. The strength, charm and legitimacy of NGOs is that they are supported and paid for by people, by citizens in the country. Sometimes, on that basis, they need additional resources from the government to do something else that doesn't work, and that's fine. Above all, we must continue to do so. But their I.D. isn't in the government subsidy flow. I've never found that, and I don't think so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij had a question about the Israel Committee of Inquiry in the Human Rights Council. When will we have this discussion now? That investigation is currently under way, and if this committee comes up with results, we will, of course, look at it. That is probably also the time to reconsider what was so troubling about us, namely the permanent nature of that mandate, because that is what it was all about in the end. But that does require a new resolution, and as we both know, the chance that it will succeed, while we are doing our best, is not so great, because the balance of power is such that we are not so terribly optimistic about it. But that doesn't matter, we'll just make our point and we want to make that clear. Mr. Chairman. I've answered the questions, I think. No, I got something else. I misinformed the Chamber. That's something. I said to Mr De Roon that we know that there are no Afghan funds in Dutch bank accounts that you could possibly link to the Taliban. Now I've been corrected. There was an account with a Dutch bank between 2015 and 2020, with €176,62. I'm just passing it along, to be complete and correct. I come to the amendments. The Omtzigt group calls for fewer informers. I could keep a whole story about that, but we don't. I would advise against this amendment. We have dealt with Mrs Mulder's amendment. I am merely doing the amendments that we have not dealt with. I come now to the amendment tabled by Mr Ceder, on point No. 13, on protecting victims of religious persecution. That's what I'm judging, Room. Let me see if I have had all the amendments. To Mr Brekelmans' amendment, No. 12, on the phasing-out of dependencies has been responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u266	Did you leave that judgment to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u267	Judgement Room, yes. I already told you that. The opinion on Mr Sjoerdsma's amendment, No. 14, I also left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u268	The amendment in part No. 14 also has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u269	Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the motions. The first motion, in part No. 15, belongs to Mr De Roon. That motion is about moving the embassy to the capital Jerusalem. That's an evergreen. And also the reaction is probably an evergreen: we advise against that motion. Mr De Roon's second motion, No. 16, about taking back subjects, we also advise against. We have just sent a letter to the Chamber following the Eerdmans motion on this matter. There's an explanation in there. For us, this issue, the return policy and the withdrawal of displaced asylum seekers, is part of an integral policy, and not the dominant cornerstone of Dutch foreign policy. That's why we're dissuading the motion. In the third motion by Mr De Roon, in part No. 17, the government is called upon to oppose the Strategic Compass. We do not, so we advise against this motion. The fourth motion tabled by Mr De Roon, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 18, calls for all ongoing aid programmes to be stopped in Islamic countries. We don't recommend that. The fifth motion, in part No. 19, is also Mr De Roon's. He asked the government to seek support from other European countries for similar sanctions against Iran because of the disruptive drone policy. I'd like to give this motion a ruling, Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 20. That's Mr. Brekelmans'. It's about the secondary sanctions vis-à-vis Belarus. Can we read the motion as follows? It's basically secondary sanctions. These are not possible in the EU because of the possible conflict with international law and European principles of law in the areas of proportionality and legal certainty. However, since the last IAB, we can impose sanctions in response to migration problems. If I may explain the motion as an appeal to commit myself to implementing such sanctions, then I can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u270	I see Mr Brekelmans nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u271	Then there's the motion in part No. 21, also by Mr Brekelmans. It's about the threat picture, and making scripts with scenarios. That's a motion I'd be happy to pass on to Chamber. The motion in part No. 22 by Mr Brekelmans calls on the government to work with America to prevent terrorist bases in Afghanistan. I'd like to give that motion, too, to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 23, also by Mr Brekermans, is the motion on the agents of foreign influence and to establish such a register. I'm giving that judgment room. We are prepared to look again at those Australian experiences, although for the sake of fairness, because we live in a European context, there are some comments that do not automatically make this the brilliant idea. Anyway, we'll get back to that. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u272	Mr. Brekelmans on the motion in part No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u273	Yes. I will submit a slightly modified version of this because the motion as it has been tabled has a slightly different wording. But my question is indeed exactly what the Minister is now saying: indicate whether the Australian example would be applicable in the European context, given the rules we have. That is exactly what the motion seeks to ask for. I'll change the wording a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u274	I'd love to. Then it's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u275	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u276	Then the motion to part No. 24 by Mr Van Dijk. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The Strategic Compass is a confidential document of the High Representative. So it's not up to me to make it public. I fully understand the inconvenience in that regard. We've talked about that before. I can feel it myself. We will do our utmost to give an appreciation of this as publicly as possible and then discuss it. The target date was therefore 10 December, as I indicated to Mr Van Dijk in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u277	I really had the idea that this motion was an easy one. We're not gonna decide on a document we don't know, are we? That is what it would imply if my motion did not pass: a document on European defence that we do not know about. My motion calls for it to be made public, for it to be debated, and then we can decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u278	Now Mr Van Dijk skips a few steps. It is not the case, if the Council has adopted a proposal later, that this is the case. It is a commitment on the basis of which the other institutions also have a role to play. Eventually, it'll come back to us. Only, I give Mr Van Dijk that we are discussing the commitment we have on the basis of an appreciation. That appreciation is based on a piece that we should not exaggerate a certain degree, but has a certain degree of confidentiality. I'm not authorized to break that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u279	Mr Van Dijk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u280	But that only makes me more suspicious towards that Strategic Compass, and a good parliamentarians should be too. We need to know what it says before we decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u281	I hear very clearly what Mr Van Dijk is saying. After all, the floor is not for me. It's just advice. You're the boss, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u282	The motion in part No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u283	The motion in part No. 25 is a motion I need to consider. It is about being present at the first conference in Vienna on the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. That motion was tabled earlier by Mr Van Dijk and then dissuaded by my predecessor. Norse participation is still uncertain, but that does not matter, because that is not the main argument. We took part in these negotiations. Our wishes were not met at that time. The Netherlands voted against. The cabinet has also extensively motivated this and shared it with your Chamber. International law is contested by non-signatories. Hence there are also what is called "persistent objectors," such as the United States, France and the United Kingdom. For us, it is the non-proliferation treaty that is the most important instrument. We are fully committed to that. That is why I must discourage this motion, like my predecessor. Then there is the motion on no government participation in the Olympic Games. I am referring here to what I said about this in the first term, on the basis of which I would like to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 27 by Mr Sjoerdsma on the Human Rights Fund. I consider it an encouragement and I like to give it a Chamber of Judgement. Then the motion to part No. 28 by Mr Sjoerdsma on an arms embargo on Ethiopia. I just want to be clear about what we're saying. If we can interpret this motion in such a way that I am supposed to advocate the establishment of an arms embargo at European level, addressing all the parties involved in the military conflict, then I fully agree with the thrust of this motion. Then I'd like to make that a wish of the Chamber at the next RBZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u284	That would have been a better operative part, so heartfelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u285	Okay. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u286	That was the motion in part No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u287	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 29 on the evidence bank. I'd like to give it to you, Room. That is Mrs Piri's motion. Then the motion to part No. 30 on the penalty packages. My request is for this motion to be put to the vote, and I would refer you to what I said about it in the first term. We have to find out first. Once we've figured it out, we'll share it with you and we'll have to talk to each other about how we handle it, depending on what exactly comes out. So holding on would be my suggestion, but I also look in the direction of Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u288	Is Mrs Piri prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u289	Yes, provided she doesn't have to be arrested for a year and we do see something within a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u290	That goes without saying. There is an emergency situation in Belarus, so I wouldn't talk about it in terms of years and, frankly, months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u291	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u292	The motion in part No. 31 on the offensive for the Istanbul Treaty, I'd like to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 32 on the reform of Rule 42.7 is a motion by Mrs Piri. I'd be happy to give that one, too, "Room of Judgement." Then there's the motion in part No. 33 by Mrs Mulder and many others on aid to and a hand to civil society and opposition in exile in Belarus. I'll pass judgment on that, Room. Then the motion to part No. 34 by Van der Lee on aid to civil society, NGOs and lawyers' collectives in a number of Member States that we were talking about here. I'd be happy to give that one, too, "Room of Judgement." The motion-Van der Lee c.s. on a UN database for companies in the Palestinian territories, but I would also like to explain why. We were not in favour of this database because it is primarily up to the countries themselves and not the United Nations to make companies aware of the importance of corporate social responsibility. Also, the Netherlands was never in favour of the database, because the Netherlands wanted a general approach and not a list that would only cover the territories occupied by Israel. These are the two reasons why we want to discourage this motion this time too. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on human rights and West Papua.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u293	Just a moment before you move on. Mr. Brekelmans, do you have a question about Mr. Van der Lee's motion in part No. 35?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u294	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u295	Where are we? Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u296	Sorry I'm late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u297	Doesn't matter. Maybe I was too fast, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u298	The operative part calls for additional financial resources. I was wondering, when we were discussing the budget, whether it came from existing budgets and whether the Minister interpreted it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u299	That's from the existing resources, yes. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u300	Then the motion to part No. 36.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u301	The motion in part No. 36 is about West Papua. My request to Mr Ceder is to keep it. I'll tell you why. We share these concerns on our own, but we also have contact with the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Bachelet, about how best to help her and her people get access there. Frankly, I think it is important to get close with her to see what's best for her to be able to take a next step. So I am a little reluctant to make statements here that might cross that line. So I would like to come back to that after we have had those talks with Mrs Bachelet and give an answer. I would ask Mr Ceder to hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u302	Mr Ceder is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u303	Then the motion to part No. 37 on Azerbaijan. That's a motion from MP Ceder. I'd like to give it to you, Room. The same applies to the next motion on Azerbaijan in part No. 38, in relation to the prisoners of war. I'd be happy to give that one, too, "Room of Judgement." Then the motion of MP Van Houwelingen to item No. 39 on the execution of the Latvian Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would advise against this, referring to the discussion we have had on this subject. The same applies to Mr Van Houwelingen's motion on item No. 40 to call on the Latvian ambassador in connection with this. I'd like to advise against that, too. Then the motion to part No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u304	That's a speech-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u305	I don't have to judge that, I see. Sorry. Then the motion to part No. 42. I actually didn't have the time, or I didn't take it, just to explain it. I would ask Mr Dassen to hold the motion. And why? I agree with him that we should help journalists in acute need. The longer stay in the Netherlands is not the competence of Foreign Affairs but that of the State Secretary for Justice and Security. In fact, I would like to consult with her on this matter and also to see exactly how the countries to which Mr Dassen referred have set it up. If he gives me that time, then my request is to hold the motion. If he doesn't give me that time, then my suggestion is to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u306	I'm looking at Mr. Dassen. Next week is the debate on JenV's budget. That's another suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'd like to go along with that. My question is, what time does the Minister intend to do this? If we can do this for next week, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u308	I'm gonna put a little time pressure on it. No, that was just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u309	You used to be able to look up and then someone would give you the number of weeks, but I don't see anyone, and I don't want to embarrass people either. I've been counting for three weeks, four, five, six weeks. I count six weeks. It should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u310	The motion in part No. 42 is therefore detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u311	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u312	At the request of Mr Dassen, I propose his motion (35925-V, No. 42). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u313	Then the motion to part No. 43 by Mr Eppink. I refer to the debate, in which a number of nuances in relation to this motion have been reviewed. Subject to that, I would like to give this motion a ruling Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Forty-four by Mr Van der Staaij on North Korea, I would also like to give a ruling to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. Mr Van der Staaij (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van der Staaij on his excellent report. We are committed to the one-China policy. We believe that Taiwan should be able to participate meaningfully in international meetings on issues of global importance, such as civil aviation, safety, global health, but also international crime prevention. Meaningful participation is something other than membership. As far as we are concerned, observership should not be an end in itself either. The point is that Taiwan must not be deprived of crucial information on cross-border crime prevention and that the international community must not be deprived of Taiwan's insights. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'll give that judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Forty-six of Mr Kuzu, I am happy to give judgment to the Chamber. The same applies to his motion in part No. 47 on tensions in Bosnia: I also like to give them a ruling Chamber. However, I would suggest to Mr Kuzu that the motion on item No. 48 to be retained. If he can't, I wouldn't advise him. Let me tell you why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u314	There was already a hand raised by Mr Kuzu that he held the motion. But he'd like to hear what happens if he's not willing to. Okay, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u315	I would therefore ask you to hold the motion for consultation with my colleague or, better still, to hold it until the budget debate on external trade and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u316	He's willing to do that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u317	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of this debate. Without wishing to take up your time, perhaps a final remark on my part. The tragedy of international relations is always that words such as'serious', 'unacceptable', 'careful', 'debatable' and 'painful' are included. If you don't pay attention, it is always extremely heavy and also a bit gloomy. If you let the world come to you, there is often reason to do so. When I was living in Germany, my neighbor when I was in a gloomy mood always said: "Oh, Mr. Knapen" when it was all "Herr" and "Frau" you know, who expected paradise on earth, used to pay very little attention in geography education. So it's helping. But I have to tell you, when I see the developments in recent years, from China to the climate, I get a little bleak sometimes, especially when you think about your children and your grandchildren. It's not always as cheerful. The more pleasant it is to have been able to experience this experience with you. You can be critical and also handsomely difficult, but also dedicated and ultimately pleasant. I appreciate that very much. I just want to say that at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u318	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you to my fellow Members. A further word of thanks to our excellent clerk, who has thus had his last budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u319	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I shall now suspend for a few moments and then we shall vote.
