ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u1	We are going to start the next debate, so continue your conversations in the Members' Restaurant. Have a stuffed cookie!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u2	The next item is Part Two of the budget treatment of Infrastructure and Water State. I'm glad you all just showed up here again. A warm word of welcome, also to the Minister and the Secretary of State, who are going to do the hard work today. I understand the two rulers have nice cubes. I like to hear from them which are. The most natural thing is to do the interruptions just after the block. I propose two questions per... No, what am I saying? Oops! I propose six questions per group. Then we'll go through it point-by-point. I sometimes go through a single ruler who also takes advantage of the budgetary treatment to tell just as nice stories about the ministry, about plans and covenants, or who wants to showcase something. But at least I know Mrs Visser well enough to know that she is skipping all that, so that we can look briefly and pointlessly at the budget. That is what she is going to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not feel any pressure to keep it short and powerful, but that will of course also depend on the questions of the Chamber. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the contributions made yesterday. As you said, I will deal with a number of issues. The Secretary of State does that after me. After a general introduction, I will at least address the questions that have been asked about congestion and about management and maintenance: if there is any inconvenience, how do we deal with them? Then spread the questions that have been asked around and avoid. Homework is the next block. A number of questions have also been asked about road safety. Then, in one block, I will deal with questions about both aviation and maritime. Are these cubes approved by you, Mr. Chairman? Yes. That way the MPs will know where they stand and will be able to sort out their questions. Let's get started. It was interesting to sit here yesterday and listen to all the contributions. I liked to hear how Mr Madlener indicated what was not good, while Mrs Verweij... she is unfortunately not there because of illness, I understood very nice examples from the history of how well the Netherlands was in order in terms of protection and transport. So we have seen all the shades of colour come across in the debate. I think that is good, because in the end that also indicates what IenW, Infrastructure and Water State stands for. Mr De Groot spoke of 'the Ministry of Solutions'. I do recognize that, because if we do our job well, then you actually find very little of it. In the end, we, the Secretary of State, myself and the Ministry, are there to ensure that you and your children can simply go to school safely, whether by bike or by public transport. We are there to make sure that your neighbor or neighbor, or your parents, can just go to work by car. We are there to make sure that you can catch the plane for a well-deserved holiday if you want, after working very hard for a year. We're here to help you visit family. We are also here if you are concerned about your environment in terms of emissions or the environment. These are all kinds of things that are close to the people and that matter. Those things just need to be in order. In that sense, I found Mr De Groot's characterisation that Infrastructure and Water State also stands for that very nicely. We showed that, even at the time of the corona crisis. The shops were then simply supplied by the truck drivers, medical supplies were simply supplied and bus drivers were still just driving their buses, just like the drivers and the train conductors. It was actually ensured that you could at least do your shopping in the evening. It was also ensured that if you had to go on the road, on the train or had to travel by public transport, that was possible. I have heard a number of Members of Parliament express their appreciation for this. I think it's more than deserved for all those people who've done it over the past year. I believe that the Secretary of State will also deal with this in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u5	I think it's a nice introduction. The idea of "the Ministry of Solutions" also appeals to me. We heard yesterday, of course, that all those people who are currently in traffic and are expecting these solutions must choose between the solution of GroenLinks, namely the dismantling of roads, because they all find it too much, or the solution of the PVV. My party says that we must continue to work on better roads and broadening and build additional roads, because that is what we need. Of course, we can start with fine words like "the Ministry of Solutions." We can only see that opinions in this Chamber vary from bullying the driver and chasing them at a cost to facilitating the driver. That is, of course, what we are talking about here. I am therefore pleased with the fine words, but there is, of course, a great deal of political tension on this dossier. The formation will soon show what comes out of the VVD and the few other parties who still have a good time with the motorist. So they are fine words, but we have heard that opinions are very divided in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u6	That's right. I think that this Chamber is also meant to share all these different ideas and solutions and to see if there is a common denominator to distil out. At least that's the job for the Secretary of State and me. I fully agree with you that it has not yet been resolved. But if you are talking about the question of what this "doing department" stands for, I would like to say the following. This department represents troubleshooting. Until recently, I was allowed to contribute to another department. That was DOD. That department also went on land, at sea and in the air, but in a different way. You will notice that these are departments that matter very much in people's everyday lives, but are not actually so visible. And indeed: if there are problems then we are there to solve them. This is the case, for example, with the flooding in Limburg that we had last summer. This week I also received a proposal from the province of Limburg and the municipalities in Limburg. It's getting very close. People really sit there with their hands in their hair when it comes to a solution, including with the insurer. The department deals with traffic jams and drivers, but also with public transport. You can see that people like to travel by public transport again, but also worry about covid. For all these people, we do it. Last week I was able to inspect children's bike lights in a schoolyard. How do we ensure that children can cycle safely to school, even now with winter time? It's all very small things that matter. Mr Geurts has also mentioned a number of them in his contribution to road safety. It matters. It's getting very close to the people. I am therefore pleased that Mr Madlener says that we should exchange ideas in this Chamber and see if we can come up with a common solution. I think that's very important. In any case, I am proud of how we have taken care of this during the last period, even during the corona crisis. The Netherlands has been in the top 5 worldwide for years in the field of infrastructure, whether land, sea or air. I just saw part of the debate on the Economic Affairs budget. Why do investors want to invest in the Netherlands? They are concerned with well-educated people, they are concerned with the fact that the Netherlands is a rule of law and they are concerned about the existence of a good infrastructure. Fortunately, we've been taking care of that for years, and we're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u7	I agree with the plea that the Ministry should be the Ministry of Solutions. I wonder whether this Minister also agrees that it should actually be a ministry that should avoid these problems, rather than just solving them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u8	Resolving is also a matter of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u9	I wonder if the Minister could elaborate on this. That was part of my plea, but I still see little of it in this ministry. I hear some good things in the fine words about solutions, for sure, but I would like to hear a nice contribution on precisely that point of avoiding problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u10	I had actually just begun my introduction and will speak about it during the debate. If there are still specific questions at the end of the debate, I can answer them. First of all, I am proud of our infrastructure and of all the efforts made to have and develop a healthy living environment. I know the Secretary of State is, too. A number of issues have been raised. Mr Madlener spoke just now about the motorist versus public transport. He mentioned Mrs Bouchallichh in the context of public transport. I do not really want that contradiction, because we need all these modalities to get people from A to B in a good way. So it's and-and-and, it's not or-or-or. We cannot say: we only choose one modality, and we will invest in it. No, we need them all to make sure that people can just live their lives so that after work they can be at daycare in time to pick up their children so that they can get to work in time so that they can be in the lecture room in time for college. So in the end it's all about this. I call on the Chamber to monitor the integrity of the debate on mobility. I am talking not only about passenger transport, but also about freight transport. You have to look at the entire mobility system in the Netherlands. I happen to see Mr Stoffer coming in. It's called timing. What struck me yesterday was that at the end of the debate Mr Stoffer referred to the word 'inland navigation'. Within the mobility system, inland waterway transport plays a very important role in freight transport. If you want fewer traffic jams on the road, it helps if you can take a large number of trucks off the road by investing in inland navigation and ensuring that they can do so in a good way. Inland waterway transport needs support for this. I will deal specifically with a number of questions raised by Mr Stoffer. Mr De Groot also asked about what is called "modal shift" with a beautiful Dutch word. This shows that you need to look not only at passenger transport but also at freight transport. You should also look at the mobility system. There's just a big difference between North-East Groningen and the city of Groningen, for example, when you're talking about mobility systems. We see that ov is just strong in the cities, because there are many people living there and because you can transport a lot of people. As a result, 14% of the number of kilometres in cities is travelled by train and others. When we look at the rest of the country, outside the cities, we see a very different picture. For example, 71% of the total mileage is travelled by car. You don't have big stations everywhere. You don't have enough people to put that there in a good way. So we need everything. Take the bike, for example. Almost as many trips as by car, but we spend 9% of all distances with them. Well, that makes sense. So you have to invest in all these modalities. We can't do that alone. We also need the municipalities and the provinces, precisely to ensure that the flow is regulated. We must do this in a way that is robust and climate-proof, but which also brings together the challenges. Mr De Groot of D66 asked for this yesterday. Take the housing statement: where do we build in the Netherlands? Make sure you know how to unlock that in a good way. That's what we do. Our predecessors have shown this in recent years. We started once, in 1965, with a fund for the different modalities. In recent years we have been able to create the Mobility Fund, where we no longer make the choice in front of the road, what goes to the railway and what goes to the waterways. We're looking area-oriented at where there's trouble. This includes, for example, the housing statement. On this basis, we assess what is the best solution for people to choose. As far as I am concerned, this includes diversity and customization. Freedom of choice is crucial when it comes to mobility. In the legislative consultation on the budget, I said that this would be one of the discussions with the Court on the balancing framework for investments in the Mobility Fund: how are we going to make that assessment when it comes to investments in new infrastructure? I am referring in the broadest sense to passenger and freight transport, to rail, to road and to rail. This includes freedom of choice and there is a difference between urban and non-urban areas. You want to serve everyone, because we ultimately want to make it as easy as possible for people and we want to offer those solutions. A number of questions were also asked about the future. Then I come to the block about how we deal with mobility towards the future. How are you going to offer these solutions, Mrs Van Esch asked. I see three themes in the area of mobility that need to be addressed. They will also be arrested, but we must continue with that in the coming period. The main theme is conservation. That's what the Secretary of State and I sent a letter about. We must ensure that management and maintenance are in order, for the rail, for the road and for the waterways. This also includes that you know that from 2026 we are going to get a very large bow wave around replacement and renovation. In the Netherlands we have almost 3,000 viaducts, about 800 bridges and almost 30 tunnels. These were all built in the 1950s and 1960s. Some are even older; that shows how good our engineers were back then. However, these viaducts, bridges and tunnels must now be renovated or replaced. So we see that in the coming period this is really going to build up towards 2026. It's a huge task. You also read in our letter that we do not have enough funding for this from the Mobility Fund. Mrs Hagen specifically mentioned borrowing from the future. A solution must be found for this. We have outlined the dilemmas to you. You can say "no extra money goes" but then you also have to accept that the quality becomes less. That simply means more disturbances on the track, on the road and on the waterways. You can also say: we are going to make that extra money available. This means, however, that no new investments can be made on the waterways, road and rail, while the Integrated Mobility Analysis shows that the number of transport movements on all mobility will increase towards the future. We are going to build more houses and there are more people living in the Netherlands. As a result, there are also more movements. We will have to find a solution to that. If you say that you are not prepared to do so, then you will see the figures you see now and the concerns surrounding the fact that some things have not been resolved increase. We have tried to outline that dilemma. We have also done this to point out that it is not natural that the problems should be solved with a new annual budget from the Mobility Fund. Mrs. Hagen gave it to me as well. Then you borrow from the future. However, this needs to be solved in a structural way. Mr. Chairman. Conservation is crucial. We are proud of the infrastructure, but we would also like to keep it that way towards the future. We are also waiting for a very large bow wave when it comes to replacement or renovation. I will come back to Mr De Groot's story about what this means for your nuisance approach. The second aspect that comes with it is: making use of it. I have heard several contributions from some of you. Mr De Hoop, for example, talked about working at home. How do you do that and how do you do that? I will deal specifically with this later, but working at home, for example, is one of them. Be sure to avoid rush hour, whether it's on the train or on the road. This can help to find a part of the solution to the problems that exist. It's not just about homework, spreading and avoiding, but an important part is also smart mobility; to put it with a beautiful Dutch word. Smart mobility ensures that you share optimal data with each other. For example, we are going to share data with our fellow governments, for example on road management and rail. We ensure that these data come into one system and that they are made public. The parties making applications can make use of this. This will alert you on the road and on the track in time if there are any work or traffic jams. There is still a world to win when it comes to smart mobility and how we can use the road and track smarter. This can also be done, for example, when it comes to replacement, renovation, management and maintenance. Many systems have now been developed by the market when it comes to timely warnings. These will make sure you intervene in time. That's also part of making better use of it. Better use also involves making your system climate-robust. How do you make sure that the tunnels and bridges, both on the track and on the road, are climate-robust, so that there is no interference at wet times like we had last summer, or in the event of drought? This is all part of the question: how do we make better use of our infrastructure? Of course, this also includes new predisposition. That is what we will need for the future, both in terms of rail and road. So these are the three challenges that lie ahead. Even when it comes to the future, we should make links with new challenges. A link should be made with the housing statement in front of it. Mr De Groot and Mr D66 also asked about it. Of course, there must also be a link with other tasks. For example, we would like to keep green areas, because we would like to stay in them. That's what we've seen in covid time. How do you make mobility an integral part of that? Questions have been asked about this too. I'll go into that more specifically. Then there is the question of both Mr Boulakjar and Mr De Groot: how do you actually do that? We see that municipalities all have housing plans. They're going to invest, because they want to realize these housing plans. This also brings with it a mobility issue. How does that get picked up from the cabinet? Mr Boulakjar immediately indicated that we are not just doing this with the two of us; of course we are doing this with our colleagues. What is important is the National Environment Vision, which we have established, in which we have outlined the main interests that contribute to the spatial design of the Netherlands and how we intend to shape it. Fourteen areas have emerged in the context of the urban planning exercise. We'll discuss that. We have informed you in a letter that the regular MIRT referrals will not go on this autumn, but we have left the agreements for this very reason, because we want to talk about two things. The first is the urbanization call. What should be achieved and what does this mean for mobility? The second is the financial space we have for the conservation mission, on which we have sent you letters, and linked it to it: what does this mean for the joint approach to nuisances? If we know that we may have more malfunctions because there is not enough budget, how are we going to make sure that the user has as little nuisance as possible? So we have also deliberately allowed these agreements to continue. It is no longer a regular Administrative Consultation MIRT, but we think it is important to keep the conversation going, because we see that task. In that discussion we can then see how we can do better. How can we connect the accessibility statement and the housing statement? That is what area agendas come out of, and they then give rise to the MIRT explorations, to see what is needed in those areas to achieve that. So much for mobility initiation in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u11	I have another in-depth question to ask the Minister about the housing issue and the mobility issue. The Minister states that we are now dealing with 14 areas. But my question yesterday was very specific about the areas not covered. These are, in particular, regional housing projects which are likely to put a lot of pressure on clustering, for example on motorways and rail. My question was very specific how the Minister dealt with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u12	As you know, the provinces are responsible for the housing declarations that the municipalities have. There is also the coupling with the MIRT table. You're absolutely right. Some municipalities do 100 or 500 homes somewhere. Those 14 are very clearly on the agenda, but we also want to use the MIRT consultation to do so. For this reason, the provinces are all at the table, in different ways, depending on the region. They do have this role to play. We must therefore ensure that the provinces take up their role when it comes to the landlord's declarations and the setting up of the landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's Of course, we are also looking at the mobility analyses in the light of everything that is now being developed in the framework of the NOVI and those 14 areas. You will also receive a letter from BZK's colleague, Minister Ollongren, in which, for example, the link is also made with the extra use of funds when it comes to the housing declarations. What is the task of mobility? We know it's huge. You have also read that two proposals have been accepted within the National Growth Fund. Some of that has been honoured, some of it financially, but you have also read that there will have to be a huge leap in scale and what financial resources are needed for it. You have also been able to read in our letter how much funding we still have available. That's not very much. So there's a big discrepancy in that now. I think that's gonna be the conversation. That is why we would like to continue the discussion, to share administratively with each other the way in which we try to deal with the challenges as smartly as possible, by pooling all the financial resources as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u13	Actually, here we hear a giant cliffhanger to the formation table. We all know that there is indeed a wave of maintenance coming, for which there is currently no money available, partly because the past cabinet has not responded sufficiently to this in recent years. That has not been taken into account, and that is why we have this problem. That is what the forming parties themselves are responsible for, I say. We see a growing population, partly because of immigration. All this is possible because of the sitting parties. The last cabinet attracted 100,000 people a year in the Netherlands. The infrastructure is inadequate and, of course, the number of houses is also inadequate. The situation we are in, the problem the Minister is describing, is really due to the parties that are now forming. So that actually makes it very exciting which way it goes, because there are both the VVD and D66 at the table, which have a completely different vision. I also hear more and more aldermen and drivers say: we're going to build traffic-deep neighborhoods, without cars, and we're just gonna make sure there are no more parking spaces, because then those people have to. Those are sounds that I am very concerned about. Of course, we are all concerned about the wave, but we are already hearing solutions from this Chamber that go in all directions. It's: Get the people out of the car. Some parties even love the fact that maintenance is so bad. They're hoping for the collapse of that... Of course, that's not meant to be literal. So it's a really exciting time. To go to a specific question, I say the following. This minister is new, but he is responsible for a vision of the future. I would very much like to ask whether this Minister himself is sending a clear message to the forming parties to choose for the people rather than to opt for behavior change and drive people out of the car. I hope that the Minister, in addition to outlining the problem, will also indicate the urgency and the direction in which the solution is to be found. In doing so, I expect this Minister to speak harshly towards the forming parties to opt for sufficient money for maintenance, sufficient money for new roads and enough money to allow people to keep their mobility and maintain our prosperity. That's what I'm asking this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u14	First of all, let me say that I did not hear anyone say yesterday: let our infrastructure and our bridges collapse. At least I didn't hear anyone say that. No one can respond now, so I'm just gonna do it, Mr. Chairman. I've just heard everyone plead... It is true that this was from different perspectives in terms of priorities to be set, but I have heard everyone arguing for attention to management and maintenance, replacement and renovation. That was from left to right and from right to left. I think that's important, too. We take this call very much to heart. So there is also Mr Madlener's appeal to take care of the enormous task that we absolutely have. That is why we have informed the Chamber of that enormous task. That was to show that there are no easy solutions. You can't say: borrow from the future and then you'll be fine. This calls for a structural solution. I think that not only the formation table is important, but you too, so that you can make your assessment of what you think is important, including in this budget. That is also about the future, because you can sit here for a while in the years to come. Let me put it this way. What is important when it comes to mobility? We are both missionary, so we will not come up with a vision for the future now, but we will take you into the tasks that we now have and in what we at least consider necessary. I told you that conservation is our priority. The second point is how we make better use of it. The third point is that new construction is still needed. That is the approach we see now, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u15	I would like to make a point of order. I am not here today to revisit yesterday's debate. I hear all kinds of reproaches to me and to my party. Words are put in the mouth that have not been spoken. I would ask you to take action against this, or not. I do not want to have a debate yesterday through the interrupting microphone, through the Minister. There was plenty of room for that. I was willing to answer all the questions. I am always willing to do this, but I do not think that this is a good way to debate it. I don't do that on purpose, or I'm gonna have to do this here every time. I don't think that's what we all want. We also want to get home in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u16	I certainly agree with the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u17	In general terms, this is about mobility. There were a few more specific questions about what I call management and maintenance. The main question was: how do you deal with this, knowing that there is a huge problem and knowing that there is an increase in the number of malfunctions? Mr De Groot mentioned the Haringvliet Bridge. Parliamentary questions were also asked about bridges in Friesland, for example about the bridge Kootstertille. There we had to limit the number of trucks, which had a direct impact. We simply know that, for example, we exceed our standard for the number of road failures. This has already been noted by the General Court in 2019. For example, compared to 2016, there was a quadrupling of the standard. I will inform you in December in the State of the infra and you will see that this standard will be exceeded many times. Well, that does indicate that there's a huge task ahead of us. And that has to do with the delayed maintenance again. Mr Madlener indicated that there are two things going on here. That's first of all the delayed maintenance. If you don't have enough money, you're gonna keep pushing your maintenance. And if you do that too long, you're more likely to have malfunctions. We can see that now. Two. You just replaced and renovated those old bridges, old locks and old tunnels. This plays both at the railroad and at the road and the waterways. And all this has a direct impact on, for example, inland waterway transport. Another recent example is that at ProRail in Friesland for a while there was no train traffic. So you'll see right away. We are not very proud of it, because it is one of the things that need to be solved, but it does mean that we will get more interference. How are we going to deal with the nuisance that is going to arise? Mr De Groot asked for attention to be paid to it so that the road user and the user of the track suffers as little as possible from it? The Haringvliet Bridge was in that sense also a wake-up call for many people, because there you saw that it is not obvious that the infra is in order and that you have to invest in it. It is important, I think, and Mr De Groot asked how I will deal with it in the future. It is a fixed agenda subject for the MIRT Administrative Consultation. In the last two years, agreements have also been made with provinces and municipalities on how we intend to tackle this. I just gave you something about smart mobility. We have agreed a top fifteen of data relevant to the fight against congestion and to know how many people there are in a particular place. It is agreed to collect these data with each other, both from Rijkswaterstaat and immediately from ProRail and the co-governments. In this way, we gain insight into the task that lies ahead. Then we can also use these data to make the work much more compatible. Mr. Chairman. It sounds pretty simple, but you have to connect all IT systems to each other. This mainly requires smaller municipalities to have capacity, because they have to introduce things. That just means extra capacity. So it sounds very easy, but it takes some time in practice, in the execution. We're on our way, but we're not as far as I wanted to be. But it's important to be able to do this. I have already indicated to you that I will shortly inform you by letter of the new approach, which I would like to discuss first with the fellow governments. We have indicated that we are not just going to steer the number of traffic jams that road works may cause per year. That is now the only indicator we have, but from now on we will also see what the maximum number of minutes delay may be. When are you going to take extra measures? And especially the latter: what is the user's discomfort experience? How does it experience the nuisance? I think that is important; Mr De Groot has also drawn attention to this earlier. Mr Geurts also asked about this, because he asked: how are you going to make it clear to residents and businesses that there is work or that there is... You mentioned, Mr. Geurts, in your story the bridges. An example is the work on the Haringvliet Bridge. First of all, I have promised you that safety will always be paramount. That is also why we intervene when we intervene, including, for example, the Haring Fly Bridge. That was the reason why speed limits were introduced. At the State of the infra I would like to see if we can make it clear to each region what 1 the large-scale road works are for management and maintenance and replacement and renovation and 2 which bridges are according to our end-of-life. So we are also looking at this when it comes to our work, so that at least the drivers and the inhabitants can take note of it. Of course, this can probably be done many times better, but let us start by making that clear to your Chamber, so that you can also understand it. Mr Geurts asked how this could have happened. I think that's a nice question. If you get this straight, you can see that over the last 30 years, extra money has gone to conservation at several times, but that in prioritising the use of that money for both rail and road and in the broad sense, new construction has always played an important role. It's always been a trade-off between those two. It's just like your house: if you don't make money available for maintenance, you don't notice much of it at the beginning and it's not urgent. But at some point you'll notice, and I think that urgency is there now, because now you'll notice and now you'll just have to deal with it. I say to Mr Geurts: I am thinking of a combination of factors. In the past, extra money has been made available by different rulers of different political colours. The Court of Auditors has also pointed out to us on several occasions that something had to be done with the conservation exercise. Except now we're sitting before the hour U. Then Mr De Groot's question was how I am going to get 'no surprises'. I just said something about that. We want to look together with the region at the major challenges that lie ahead. They lie not only with the Empire, but also with the regions. We are going to see if we can stack up the challenges and then see how we can coordinate the work that is going on. I suggest that I go into that letter, which I would like to discuss with the directors first in the administrative consultation we have. Then I will inform you about the approach to this matter. So you have that letter for your notebook meeting MIRT. I think that's a good point to discuss then. Those were the management and maintenance questions and the nuisance approach. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a number of questions about working at home, linked to spreading and avoiding. All political parties have made a point of this, or at least called attention to it, and rightly so. We've seen what homework, then forced by covid, does on the road and on the track, but that was forced. Many people now want to go back to work and see their colleagues again. We now have a new homework advice as part of the measures announced this week. What have we done in the past period? It was a phased approach, in which we first waited until the homework advice offered some more space. Only then did people travel again. To prepare for this, we started the Hybrid Works campaign. You may have seen it. Secondly, we have made agreements and declarations of intent with different parties to ensure that people stay out of rush hour. For example, the Secretary of State has been at Inholland to see whether educational institutions can be agreed to offer their teaching hours a little later and spread out. Here in the Hague region is the government and we are a great player in this. For example, there are more large organisations that have also contributed to this. So we've picked this up by region, and that's what we're doing now. We are now in the various provinces at regional level looking at what agreements can be made about working at home. I would like to point out that, in the end, every organisation and every company has to consider this. Of course, trade unions and participation must also look at what can and cannot be done in this area. You have also been able to see that a homework allowance has been introduced in the Tax Plan starting from 1 January 2022. That seemed important to us in order to stimulate work at home. The government has also included in its collective agreement a homework allowance offered to civil servants. The collective agreement has not yet been established, as the grassroots are still to be consulted on it. I know from experience that a lot of employers are looking at this possibility for their collective agreement. If that is possible, because there are, of course, a lot of organisations and a lot of people who cannot work at home, because they have to stand in front of the classroom or walk on the streets as police officers, for example, or for other important work. But that is what several employers are looking at. We have also done research ourselves and we see that a lot of employers are willing to make these kinds of agreements. In the meantime, the Minister for Social Affairs has asked the ESC for advice. He asked: what does hybrid work do socially and socially, in a broad sense, but also when it comes to mobility? What framework conditions need to be fulfilled in order to make this possible? As far as I know, the SER is not supposed to come up with its advice on hybrid works at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year and how to anchor it. That will then be the second step for us. You may also have read that there is probably a need for measures that are more dependent on, for example, the tax laws and regulations that may need to be changed, but also on education. We try to make agreements with all parties from our role. They're not enforceable. When it comes to education, of course, the Ministry of Education is at the table, but we are trying to bring this to the attention of all our colleagues. We are trying to make these agreements with the parties with whom we can do this, because we also have a regional role. We are going to look at this in the coming period, but that also depends on covid, because every time the advice changes, it means something for the public campaigns we are conducting, but also for the agreements we are making. We have to anticipate that every time. It can contribute, but this is not the only thing; I started my general introduction with that too. If you want solutions, you're gonna have to do more on all these fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u18	I welcome the message from the Minister that the government, as the largest employer, is also making good efforts to avoid and spread. My question to the Minister is: does she agree with me that despite the fact that the contribution is of course small, small contributions can have a significant impact on congestion, because it is a coincidence? Does she agree with me that it is the cheapest solution to avoid congestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u19	You have to ask yourself how many people you have to make work at home to make this happen and whether that is feasible at all. When you put the percentages together, you see that a lot of people often have to work at home for a long time. This is intervention in companies and organisations, while I believe that it is up to the unions as employees' representatives and the organisation as employers' representatives themselves to make good agreements on this. I agree with you that you should do this especially if you can, because I think that some of the workers enjoy having the opportunity to work at home. I think this should be possible in the interaction between employee and employer. I believe that we can support this, not only infrastructure and water state, but also other colleagues, such as Social Affairs. What does that mean in terms of legislation? What does that mean in terms of support, knowledge and know-how? Of course, this is one of the things that can contribute to it, but it is not the only means, because it really needs more. As I said, I am also in favour of smart mobility, because that can help to make better use of the infrastructure in all possible ways. But you will see that this will remain, with almost 1 million homes, with more people in the Netherlands present and with our strong feeling of tradition that we want to move, whether it is for our work, to go to school or just visit family. You will also see that we will try to facilitate this in all possible ways. If you want to do it in a good way, you can, but this alone is not a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u20	I think the Minister and I agree on many points. I also want to make the point that we have a lot of challenges. When I heard the Minister's stories about the interview, I immediately started to worry again. If this avoids investments that may not be necessary, if we can do just a little less by avoiding and spreading, then I think that this will leave us with money that we can invest in, for example, maintenance. I think the Minister and I at least agree that it is a shame to leave that. I'm glad we're really taking steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yes, but I would like to stress once again that if... The integral mobility analysis assumes that all the preferred decisions taken by your Chamber have all been realised. Even then, even in a low economic growth scenario, you see that you have a problem with your mobility statement. So working at home, absolutely. Spreading and avoiding, both in public transport and on the road. You're gonna have to make sure you get trucks off the road, get them on the inland waterways. You will need to make sure that you use your data properly, so that people know when they can get on the road or take a train that isn't completely full. You have to do all that, but besides that you also just need those investments, in the way, in the way, in the way and also in the waterways. So it's en-and-and-and. I hope that Mr De Hoop sees that as well. His plea was to try to focus more on raising people's awareness. That's what we do. There will also be the ESC opinion. Then you have a judgment that is directly based on employers' and employees' perspectives. I think that's a good starting point too. Then we can see what is necessary, including in legislation and regulation, to facilitate this. We're doing it wherever we can right now. As I said, this is really a subject in collective agreements. We see that employers are doing this, but it is also a matter of how we ensure that it is done in the workplace. Research also shows that the summit would like it and that the employee would like it, but that middle management is wondering how it will manage the people. Besides, people also want to be at work. It's nice to see your colleagues too, to spar and to think. You don't do all that from behind a screen. Then I want to move on to road safety. Some of you have mentioned this. Mr Geurts specifically asked for it. We will have a committee debate on this shortly. A number of specific questions put by Mr Geurts have been answered in writing. Road safety is a subject that everyone, Chamberwide, has a heartfelt heart, because it has such an impact on people, accidents and what it can do with human lives. The Chamber established the Road Safety Strategic Plan, which sets out objectives on the number of road injuries, serious road injuries, and the number of road deaths. Mr Geurts asked how we're doing. Mr Amhaouch is gone for a while, but he's always talking about the good bastards and the bad bastards with that bastard behavior, whether they're good or bad. That's a fair question. I think there are a number of points that are relevant. It starts with the Strategic Road Safety Plan. One question is how to ensure that the infrastructure is in order. Mr Madlener also asked about the N-roads. I'll say something about that in a minute. How do you make sure the infrastructure is in order? That's not just the way. Perhaps not, given the number of accidents on bicycle paths, for example. How do you make that "forgiving" as it is so beautiful, so that when people fall it doesn't have a big impact? That's what we did on the road. You'll see the impact of that right away. How do you set up safe school areas? So very specific the infrastructure: how can you solve that? The second is on target groups. You should think of young people, for example. We had a CBR debate the other day. That was about, for example, how we make sure that the driving school industry trains people in a good way, so that they can get behind the wheel properly. That's really focused on how you make sure young people are well behind the wheel. There's also traffic education at school. In addition, there are the elderly. The number of serious accidents of older people on the bike has just been increasing in recent years. So there are also very targeted actions on that. There are also the behavioral campaigns. The best-known example is, of course, the BOB campaign, which everyone knows and which has actually set the standard when it comes to drinking behind the wheel, that you simply don't. This also applies, of course, in general terms: behave in traffic. We have a number of campaigns for this, also aimed at young people. That's a different campaign than a campaign aimed at the rest of us, the way we're sitting here. The best known is the MONO campaign, so you shouldn't be distracted if you're taking part in traffic. That's on the bike, when it comes to the mobile phone, but also behind the wheel. You shouldn't be distracted. I think that enforcement is important. The first is clear legislation and regulation with a set of standards within it. The second is that it will also be maintained once you have agreed to that standard. We see, for example, that traffic fines for calling a telephone behind the wheel will be increased in the coming year. This also applies to fines for telephone calls on bicycles. This makes it very clear once again that we are going to use this. But of course that lies with my colleague from JenV, Minister Grapperhaus. The second is innovation. We now have new cameras that can see if there's anyone in the car holding his phone. This will also increase the chances of getting into this. That's business we have to do. I think this is one of the most difficult ones. Everyone thinks that he or she behaves in traffic, but everyone also thinks that someone else is misbehaving in traffic. The only thing we need to continue to do in this is clear standards, laws and regulations. The second is maintenance. The third is to make sure that this standard is put at the heart of the campaign, so that people also know that they must abide by it. But I am open to suggestions as to how we can do that, including from Mr Geurts in this matter. It is also important that we have invested heavily with the strategic traffic plan. We have made 500 million available to municipalities and provinces to ensure that we can invest in all these areas. At the beginning of next year, we will also make available the second tranche of the EUR 500 million, which will be distributed over ten years. Local authorities will then be able to re-apply on the basis of a risk analysis to make it safer. That was the road safety block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u22	We received a written reply of 37 pages in response to our oral contribution yesterday. There is also an answer to what I have brought in on the exchange of driving licences for knowledge migrants and their family living at home. Here's what I'm gonna notice. The Ministry has asked the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Road Traffic Service and the Rijkswaterstaat. It has not been found that there are increased risks to road safety in this group. This is, of course, because in the event of an accident, it is not registered whether you have a driving licence on the scheme for knowledge migrants. That's just not asked in an accident. I also read that further research is being carried out into the risks. They seem to me similar if you can buy a driver's license for a number of rupees on the corner of the street and exchange that driver's license here in the Netherlands for a Dutch driver's license. And I read there's going to be an analysis of the accident data. That's pretty weedy and then you just don't have to start because it's not registered. Why doesn't the Minister agree with me that this is an impassable road? Yeah, we could do a nice research, but it's not gonna lead anywhere. At least it is not going to answer the question we have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u23	Perhaps it is not the answer that Mr Geurts wanted to hear, but I think it is important that, if you want to intervene, you first know if there is a problem. We have made enquiries, including on the basis of his signal. We have, of course, also asked informally at various driving schools. Mr Geurts is now referring to one specific country, India, but this of course applies to many more countries. We have not received the strong signals that Mr Geurts has received. We have not received such strong signals that it is substantially worse or better in terms of road safety. I think that if you want to intervene in this kind of thing, first you need to know what the problem is, and then you need to find the right solution. So we take Mr Geurts' signal, as well as Mr De Groot's, very seriously. That's why we asked the question. This does not show that we see anything there in terms of road safety. But I do think it is important to consider whether this is actually the case. Mr Geurts has drawn attention to this on several occasions. That's why we're gonna take a closer look at this. But right now, I see no reason to stop this arrangement right now for all knowledge workers. We have had this arrangement since the late 1990s. In this sense, there is a great deal of information and knowledge available, especially from driving schools. I'd like to take a serious look at this. But Mr Geurts said: stop immediately tomorrow, because it is all bad. I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u24	I can keep repeating that nothing is going to come out of that data analysis because it's just not being tracked. That's not gonna work out. I'll just turn the question around. Suppose today the Minister was in charge of the decision to introduce this, would she, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u25	I don't know. I honestly don't know. That depends. This scheme was drawn up at the end of the 1990s because the Netherlands wanted to bring in knowledge workers. I think that is still true, by the way. If you go to ASML, you'll see it too. This applies to many Dutch companies when it comes to innovation. You want to be able to facilitate that as a Dutch government. You want to make it easy for people to settle here. What about the driver's license? I don't know if we would have done exactly the same thing. I think we could have made this link more explicit within the European context. This is also reflected in the reply to the letter: there is a great diversity in Europe when it comes to how we dealt with it and how we dealt with it. A European directive is now being worked on to harmonise this more. Mr Geurts is right to do this. A driver's license is there to get on the road safely. We want to ensure that in a good way, not only in the Netherlands, but also in Europe. I would perhaps be more committed to European cooperation in this area. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the maritime block. Mr Stoffer asked, like Mr De Groot, how to provide incentives, for example from the road to inland waterway transport; this modal shift. Partly this was addressed in the written reply. A subsidy scheme has been made available to SMEs in the last period and has now been opened up to them. This will allow us to move cargoes to inland waterways and also to rail. This was opened in April. The deadline is closed. Five grants have now been awarded. We are talking to Europe, where this temporary arrangement has been notified to the Commission. If approved, the scheme could be opened up to a wider scope next year, not only for SMEs but also for other companies. We can then test it and then open it wider. In addition to the scheme for the possibility of more scheduled services, we have also provided subsidies to encourage the construction of holiday rooms. 10 million has been made available for this purpose. We will make that money available to our fellow governments this year. In addition, I know that the administrative burden experienced in inland waterway transport is persistent. I refer to the well-known consignment note which must always be carried, and the customs clearance time for perishable goods is such a persistent one. What's it gonna take to fix that? The operation of locks is part of that. I will inform the Chamber in spring 2022 about the outcome of this approach and what measures we can take to reduce the administrative burden. Then there was a question about aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u26	Just a little bit more maritime, maybe. Mrs. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u27	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister, because I hear a great deal of vision about making the most of the potential of both water and road. Certainly there should be as much cargo as possible from the road to the water. I wonder what's going on with integrating the systems and the technology on the water. Because there is still a way to be won if we get more ships in the water, given the current state of affairs. Can you tell me what it takes? Of course, it doesn't have to be à la minute. I think it would be a good idea to have that intelligible if we are actually going to make that switch, which is a good thing in itself, because then our roads will be less crowded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u28	You're right. Both the regular infrastructure, so the lanes... I just mentioned the lock control. This is a recurring item that is constantly being called attention to. This also applies to dredging, so keeping the waterways navigable. That's an important fact. Two. I think two weeks ago we had the 'Fit for 55' debate with the Chamber. There is a great deal of work to be done here, including for maritime and inland waterway transport. If you're talking about support in the back, there's a world to win. You can't just replace a ship. You do that once in a while. How can we do anything... We have had the first debate on this with you. You have read that we have a positive response to this. At this kind of point, how do you make sure that they manage to make that transition? We want to enter into the conversation. They do need an extra backup to do that. This applies to several areas. I think Mrs Hagen is right to ask what is needed in inland waterway transport for this modal shift. It is important that the awareness of those shippers is increased, because those are the ones who ultimately decide how to transport the goods. We're talking to them about that, too. Of course, they have to make that choice, but if they know that the infra is in order and that the operation of the locks is going well, then so will it. It is very important in this respect to enable accelerated digitisation. We also have congestion problems in ports. We're gonna have to fix that, too. But I think it is a good thing to indicate in the Committee debate on Maritime Policy what are the important preconditions for making this battle. I think there's gonna be a collector's letter, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u29	The reliability of the waterways is, of course, essential in order to provide reliable services to inland waterway vessels. Then it is not just about operating the locks and the vulnerability to Internet attacks, which I will come back to in my second term. For years there have been bottlenecks with regard to late maintenance, I have been in contact with inland waterway vessels that have to be solved. We also see that late maintenance on roads. Now the Minister has said that 2 billion per year is needed to sustain this delay. I'm happy with those words. My question is what is needed to tackle these bottlenecks in inland waterway transport. I will mention a few bottlenecks: the locks at Panheel and St.Andries, and disturbances on the Máxima Canal and on the South Willemsvaart. These cases indicate that they are inadequate. Can the Minister make an urgent appeal to the parties in this Chamber sitting at the formation table to make real money available for this too, so that we can pay the next cabinet for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u30	I believe that the letter from the Secretary of State and myself is quite clear on the usefulness and necessity of the investment. As far as conservation is concerned, it is also clear about the challenges ahead, for example with regard to housing, the National Growth Fund and the Integrated Mobility Analysis. That analysis has been shared with your Chamber, not only with the parties who are now talking to each other to form a new cabinet, but with all of you. My appeal to all of you is to take this in mind and make your consideration of it. Then the waterways. We can see that there has been a great deal of delay. Maybe that's the modality that has the least attention, because it's the least bothering us, except if you have to cross the bridge yourself; you might notice. It is therefore right that attention should be paid to this. As I have indicated, this will require additional money. That consideration of when to do what will have to be made a next minister on the basis of a balancing framework. It is therefore a matter of prioritising which things should be tackled first. But we know, for example, that many bridges in the Lemmer-Delfzijl waterway need to be tackled, causing immediate nuisance. We need to ask ourselves how we're gonna do it in a good way. There's a lot to be done. Luckily, there's a lot going on, too. In the past period I have fortunately been allowed to open some new locks, but that is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u31	It's about setting priorities. Politics is making choices. The last cabinet just made the wrong choices. It has not spent our money on maintaining our infrastructure, but it has given it away to Southern Europe and so on; you know our position. It's not the PVV's fault. We demand enough money for maintenance. But that doesn't apply to everyone in this room. I hope that the Minister will urge the formation parties to make enough money available to achieve that maintenance. Our prosperity is at stake here. The Netherlands is a transport country and we want to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u32	We have found a solution for this coming period, at least for 2022 and 2023, but that is not a solution that we think is sustainable. The solution is to raise money with a cash drawer. At some point, that possibility just stops. You have also been able to see how much space remains for all those other things that are also necessary in the area of infrastructure. So there is a solution for the coming period. From our missionary status, we did not think it appropriate to take more action in this area, because you would then be spending heavily and making commitments. I think everyone heard your call. Our letter is more than clear. The point is that the choices made have always been shared with your Room. You've always made your own assessment of that. That's true now. Mr Madlener can make amendments to this budget and make other choices. Then I'll go on to aviation. Most of the questions were about biokerosin and its state of affairs, including in the Netherlands. Mr Alkaya had a question about electric taxiing and the state of play. I happened to receive the electric taxi road map two weeks ago on behalf of Schiphol and the airlines operating there. They have the ambition to do so from 2030. Mr Alkaya asked if I am prepared to enter into the conversation with Schiphol. Of course I am, but I also see the dilemma for both the airport and the airlines. It sounds pretty simple, but it also has an operational effect on the airport itself. You have to decorate it in a different way. An important fact is and remains the safety at Schiphol Airport itself. Schiphol Airport is one of the busiest airports in the world. The fact that they are doing this shows that they are really serious about this, including with the airlines. As a result, they need to look carefully at what this means for air traffic controllers, because they need to be trained. This also applies to the pilots; they all need to be trained. Companies that offer this kind of amenities are not yet there. There is one company that does this, but there is currently no large market to provide for this. Of course, I'm willing to take Schiphol to see what can be done faster. However, I would like to say to Mr Alkaya that it must also be feasible. The most important aspect of this is safety. I know that Mr Alkaya always draws attention to this. Safety must be guaranteed. The steps that are now being taken are very good. I think that the Netherlands can really play an exemplary role in this. If it is possible here at Schiphol Airport, given the complexity with all those jobs, any other airport should be able to do the same. So that also offers opportunities. Within these framework conditions, we look at what can be done faster, but then we are also dependent on training and on parties that offer it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u33	I have looked at the role of small airports in innovation, which we can use for example for Schiphol, in a brief interruption debate with Mrs Hagen. I see that the Minister is moving the other way: if we can do it at Schiphol Airport, we must be able to do it at other airports. I was wondering what the added value of the small airports in the Netherlands might be when it comes to trying out or innovating in favour of those larger airports. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u34	They can certainly play a role in many areas. When it comes to electric taxiing and CO emissions, this is very important. It's also relevant to do this at Schiphol Airport, if you're talking about the profits you can make there. We also had a discussion earlier on about ultra-fine dust and platform employees. Then you can actually make the most profit here. That is why I think it is an important step that is taken by the sector, that they want to do this at Schiphol Airport, also from the perspective: if it can be done here, it can be done anywhere. This does not mean that other airports cannot do this in other areas, when it comes to other aircraft. Biokerosin is also relevant. I'll answer some questions about that in a moment. In general, I believe that any airport can play a role. That's what's being done. What I like about this is that all airlines operating at Schiphol Airport have committed themselves to this. I think this is a very good example where people have actually said: we are going to do something very difficult and complex, just here, because if we can do it here, we can do it anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u35	My question is in fact in line with that. Ultraphine dust is extremely harmful, it appears now. This is detrimental to the people living around airports, but especially to the people involved in their daily work; those platform workers. The sooner we can reduce that, the better. Schiphol has indeed said that it will do so by 2030 at the latest. It has presented a beautifully designed roadmap for this purpose. My question to the Minister is to talk more than once with Schiphol, to see if this can be done more quickly, to make this a policy, not only at Schiphol Airport, but also at those smaller airports that the VVD is talking about, to make this the norm as soon as possible, so that we can reap that low-hanging fruit and those employees can also enjoy a healthy and safe working environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u36	Let me put it this way: my statement was not a one-off. This is precisely the road map that has been developed. We will continue to talk about this with Schiphol, alone, it must be feasible. I am also in favour of giving you what can and cannot be done, given the conditions that exist. Safety's a real priority. That is not only safety on the job, but also safety on the platform staff, as you rightly say. This can make a very important contribution. However, we must ensure that people are trained to work with this, that is to say air traffic controllers and pilots themselves, in order to be able to perform this safely. The second is that there must be market players who can deliver this. They are now insufficient in large numbers. The fact that this is pronounced does, of course, give an incentive and it shows to the market that Schiphol is willing to make these investments. If you know that such a party wants to do so, then you will see that parties will say: hey, this is interesting, maybe we should get into this market. Your call is to chase it, not just once, but continuously, and to say: bring 2030 to 2022. That's next year. I really want to apply these conditions. I think people should be given a viable assignment. Ambition is very beautiful, but if you can't perform it, then it also becomes very difficult. That's the thing about electric taxiing. Mr Amhaouch and Mrs Hagen raised a number of general questions about the course to be taken in order to do aviation quieter and cleaner, in cooperation with other parties, in the case of synthetic kerosene, for example from Delfzijl. As Mrs Hagen knows, the Aviation Paper is very important. It says that, if you want growth, you have to earn it first and that the public interests are at the forefront of it. Those public interests are, first of all, safety, sustainability, health and reaching destinations worldwide. These are the four interests to which we test everything in aviation. The ambition we have agreed is a 40% commitment in 2030. You have seen that, in order to do so, we are committed to a more ambitious objective in this area within Europe. Europe is less ambitious in this respect. We are working with Germany to see if we can adapt that objective within Europe and, two, or we can work together in projects to get that production off the ground in the Netherlands. However, we cannot solve this in the Netherlands alone. That's what you read in my letter. We need all the production throughout Europe to be able to implement this. In fact, that was also the question Mr Amhaouch. He asked how much biokerosin will be available at Schiphol Airport in 2022. There isn't at the moment. There are three providers. They are now developing production facilities. Those parties expect to be able to start production in the Netherlands in 2023/2024. We will, of course, encourage this. The fact is that we ourselves have set ourselves a clear ambition in the Aviation Paper, towards Europe and with the "Fit for 55" package. This is essentially the same as what just emerged from the discussion with Mr Alkaya: if you express an ambition and an objective, you will see that the market is going to act on it. But the production facilities in the Netherlands are not yet active. So that's what we're working on right now. This means that this biokerosin is not present structurally at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u37	When I hear that, I really say: it's too late. Why? We filed the motion in question in 2018. I know SkyNRG's in Delfzijl. I would like to know what problems they face in making this possible, so that we can get that biokerosin in 2022 or early 2023 and then make the next step towards synthetic. When I read that Shell is already working on synthetic kerosene with SAS and Vattenfall in Sweden, I agree that we really need to accelerate the sustainability of aviation. I would like to know from the cabinet what problems these companies face. Is that the permit? Is that the laws and regulations? Because the question is there. The same applies to electric taxiing. If Schiphol were to execute an order today for TaxiBots, they would also have tested it. There are certainly companies that can make it. So I'm asking the cabinet. It may not have to be right in this debate, but I would like to see a little more ambition in this area, because without sustainability there is no aviation. I think we should all bear that in mind. So the question is: can the Minister indicate what problems are being faced in Delfzijl, for example, in achieving biokerosin in 2022 or 2023? Where can we help?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u38	First of all, the production facilities must be there. So there aren't any yet. They're working on it. I cannot now indicate exactly where it stands for this process and what exactly it is for, so to speak. But the ambition you are calling for is there. The Netherlands is the country which organised an international conference on this issue at the beginning of this year and which, together with a number of countries, has called for greater ambition in this area. I'm glad you did. Several parties have been behind that. We have the Aviation Paper, in which we have set an ambitious target. The ambition of this cabinet to be progressive in this is there. It's also written down. We can see that, too. The fact that three parties are willing to invest in production facilities here also indicates this. One could have chosen other places, but one also chooses the Netherlands. This shows that the willingness and ambition are seen and that bread is also seen in it. Mr President, we have been asked specifically where in the process these three production facilities are, but I do not know every three. Otherwise, I can come back to that in second place. But we share the ambition to make this work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u39	Maybe I can help the minister. It would be nice if we got a letter. Then we don't have to do that here. I would like to know, for example, what is going on at the production facility in Delfzijl. What is the government's move, and what are the companies' moves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u40	Let me put it this way: I will respond to that in any case in the second term. Mr Amhaouch must then state whether that is sufficient for him, because I do not know at what level of detail he wants to know. But we'll get back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u41	Sounds like he wants to know all about it. Mrs. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u42	My question to the Minister was whether we can agree with Germany's initiative, which invests enormous sums of money in synthetic kerosene. I just heard "biokerosin" next to me. Well, good. What matters to me is that, in my view, we hardly invest in aviation. Mr Paternotte has once released 1 million, but it is rather limited. You indicate: we show ambition. I do see other things in the market. If we speak to Delft University of Technology, and also in Woensdrecht we were, what do they report? They see that our neighbouring countries, such as England, Belgium, Germany, are investing millions in sustainable aviation. And what does the EU do? It doubles that kind of amount. So what do these market players see? They see other companies leaving for countries like that. So yes, we can have ambition, but as I indicated in my text, we can have ambition, but we must also do something about it. And I understand the situation we are in, but it is really not enough just to have ambition; there really needs to be a euro sign. My question about Delfzijl was different, namely: can we connect with the kerosene plants that are being built in Germany? Because I think we already have the underground facilities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u43	I'll come back to that when it comes to those underground facilities. Let me put it in a way that it is rather complicated, that pipeline network in the Netherlands and what agreements have been made about it within NATO. 'Cause that's how it goes. So this has a completely different trajectory. But Mrs Hagen also indicates that money has been made available on a one-off basis. I can see that despite the fact that these financial resources have not been made available, this ambition has meant that three companies are prepared to open a production facility here, unlike other countries. This also indicates that there is a market here, so perhaps it is not always necessary. And I would say to Mrs Hagen: you have a supporter with me when it comes to such initiatives. And I am always prepared, as I say in the direction of Mr Amhaouch, to see what that means. Because is it something financial, as Mrs Hagen points out? Or is it, very simple, for example, in the pipeline network, where there are problems that can't be done? It could be on all sides. But I will come back to that in the second period at least on the main lines, and perhaps something extra will be needed. Mr. Chairman. I think I have dealt with the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u44	Thank you very much. Then perhaps there is another question from Mrs Van Esch. Yeah, that's the case, so it's up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I assume that the missed questions that have not been answered in writing do not go away from my interruptions? I am missing a number of questions that my colleague Mr Van Raan has asked. I'm missing an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u46	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I miss the answers. My colleague, Mr Van Raan, was kind enough to point out that it could also be written in his speech yesterday, in which he asked if the Minister could comment on some of the objections he mentioned. I can go back to the whole section of Mr Van Raan, but that seems a bit of a hassle to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u48	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u49	I didn't think that was supposed to happen. But they are not in the written reply and we also missed them in the reply of this minister. He clearly states that this can also be done in writing, I say. So maybe that's a little head-on towards the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u50	It's ready to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u51	But then I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u52	It was more like his statement. I know that Mr Van Raan has had this discussion with my predecessor on several occasions. It's about: how do you treat aviation? In addition, Mr Van Raan would like something else. It says: aviation must also contribute in a certain way when it comes to CO emissions. Throughout climate policy, countries and sectors are given a freedom to complete this, with the Climate Agreement for the Netherlands, of course, leading. And when it comes to aviation, we are going to treat it as an ordinary sector. That's what you can see in the Aviation Note. You can now see this in the 'Fit for 55' assessment that we gave as a cabinet, for example when it comes to the tax burden on kerosene, and also when it comes to the discussion we had just had on the obligation to add. Aviation is therefore treated as a general sector. Mr Van Raan just wants a slightly different solution. He'll probably know my answer by now. That will be the same as the answer he received in all the debates he had with my predecessor on this subject. He asked for a second opinion on a proposal from a professor. We are now working on this and expect to come up with it at the beginning of next year. I believe that this is the right time to return to this debate with new information. Otherwise, we'll have a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u53	Despite the fact that I think this is a very nice answer and I am sure my colleague Van Raan will continue to do so, it was not the part of Mr Van Raan's contribution I mentioned. That was specifically about asphalt. Why don't we see if that can be answered in writing? Otherwise, we're gonna keep talking about what piece it is. I totally agree with that, but I do want the answer in the end. That's why I'm gonna stand there for a while. 'Cause we're not asking this for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr Van Raan indicated that he does not actually believe in asphalt and aviation. Maybe I'm doing Mr. Van Raan all wrong. He can't defend himself now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u55	Perhaps Mrs Van Esch would have to explain in one sentence what Mr Van Raan's question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr Van Raan asks: can the Minister explain again for each of the following objections why more asphalt is good? After that, he shall state his objections. He's going into electric cars. Can that be explained again? Et cetera. He's specifically asking for a response. This can also be done in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u57	We know that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u58	It's called having a political debate with each other. I have indicated that I believe that asphalt does contribute to mobility solutions. Other investments in mobility also contribute to this. Mr Van Raan says that this is not a solution, but I do not recognize it. I also do not recognize in his contribution yesterday that there will not be enough electric cars. I think we have seen a huge increase in the number of new electric cars that have been sold in the last period of the fleet change. In the coalition agreement, the standards are also explicitly included. So I do not recognize Mr Van Raan's presentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u59	That sounds like a good answer to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u60	That will be the case, but it just doesn't answer the question that is being asked. I continue to find that objectionable. Mr Van Raan says: address the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the health crisis. The answer to those questions is not coming. I ask you very kindly: can it be written? I have an oral answer to that which does not address the questions that have been asked. So I would like to ask you one more time: can we not just give written answers to the questions that have been put here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u61	I'm going to write the exact same thing I just said to Mrs Van Esch. I think this is a question that I would like to deal with with with Mr Van Raan. I regret that Mr Van Raan is not here. That will be for good reasons, so I won't say anything else about it. I would like to start the debate on this because this is a very broad question: the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis. One of these questions is: do you think mobility should take into account the living environment? The answer to that question is yes. How do you do that? We do that by normalizing, by carefully weighing things up. I would like to put that back on paper, but I think, quite frankly, that this is a very big debate that you do not take off by paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u62	I would also like to go to Mr Stoffer now. I've heard you five times now, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr President, I have one more interruption and I would like to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u64	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u65	We also received an answer to the question that my colleague Mr Van Raan asked about the cut-off limit of nitrogen. The answer was just not the answer to the question we had asked. This question is about the 5 km cut-off limit, which was initially calculated for the seven MIRT projects. Last summer, following a lawsuit that cut-off line went to 25 kilometers. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this is still a very arbitrary cut-off limit. Too much nitrogen is just too much nitrogen, no matter how you cut it off. We are only curious to see to what extent calculations have already been made for these seven MIRT projects on the basis of the new 25 km cut-off limit. If there are, are they already available to us? When are we gonna see it? We haven't seen them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr Van Raan outlined a dilemma. He asked, "How do you handle the 5 kilometers versus the 25 kilometers?" This is the result of the report on nitrogen. The Hordijk Committee looked at the accounting rules. On this basis, the Minister of LNV asked RIVM which accounting rules and distances should be used. That's where the 25 km line came from. That was taken over by the cabinet on 9 July of this year. We therefore apply the 25 km limit for all road projects when it comes to the calculation of nitrogen. We do this on the basis of the question asked by LNV at RIVM, about which a TNO report has also been published. That's all shared with your room. So you have been able to take note of this and see how we do it. What have we done in the road projects at the moment? The first road project in which we counted the 25 km border concerns the A4 and A15. That is now ahead of the Council of State. So the Council of State will give an opinion on this. We do not have many people who can provide these kinds of calculations and ecological assessments. So we are also prioritising this. We have now done the first project. That's in the Council of State now. So that's also public. That was shared with the Chamber in September. The second project we will start with concerns the A27. The Court has asked for prioritisation of road projects relating to the problem of nitrogen. I will inform the Chamber about this this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u67	Fine. Something will come in writing!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u68	Later this year, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u69	Maybe I'd like some more in writing. No. I think the Minister himself has answered all the questions. I would like a little more clarification on two points. The first point. The Minister has discussed the matter in detail. I had asked to look at long-term trajectories as well. I'm not sure the Minister said anything about that. I don't think so. Here's what I asked for. If you look at this, also in the light of the letter we received last Friday, then I think it is important that the data management, asset management, or whatever we call it, gets better. I get that we're not gonna deal with each other today. My question would actually be: does the Minister share that insight with me? Could it perhaps be agreed that we will be kept informed annually of where we want to go in terms of ambition, including whether or not we can do so? I am not going to table a motion on this if there is a reasonable answer, because I do not want to record it entirely. I know from practice how difficult it is. Actually, you're kind of working against it. My question is: would the Minister share the ambition with us, perhaps increase it a little and share the progress with us every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u70	At the end of 2020, you received the proposal that is now being used to improve asset management. I don't know if we can do this by December. I'll look into that. A good time to discuss the progress of this is, I think, with the State of Infrastructure. I fully agree with Mr Stoffer that if it can be done more quickly, that is also necessary. We benefit from being able to do that. Here too, I think we have another big lesson to learn from each other, both the Cabinet and the Chamber. Things have to be workable, too. To what extent ambitions can be accelerated, I will examine them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you. That's a good promise. That saves a motion. Second. I had received written answers to my questions concerning the maritime recovery plan. In itself, that looks reasonable. Actually, it's kind of the same question. Would it be possible to obtain, for example, in the first quarter 2022 or when possible, but not in the very long term, a progress letter specifically addressing acquisition paths, the role of the Dutch industry in the lead times of projects, the question of whether the lead times can be reduced and the budgets for sustainability? As far as I am concerned, the Minister may decide the time, but I would like to mention these issues in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's right. We just had the debate. I now notice that little support is available for the sustainability of maritime and inland waterway transport, while the challenges that lie ahead are enormous. I think that this is a justified remark, also for the future, when you talk about where great challenges lie and how they can be facilitated. I also know from another role that Mr Stoffer knows what the extra costs are when you talk about, for example, the sustainability of frigates. That brings with it extra costs. You're gonna have to consider that. We also support the proposal when it comes to submitting it to the National Growth Fund, because it simply costs extra money. It's a fair call. I think it's good to take this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u73	I specifically asked for a progress letter somewhere in Q1 or Q2 2022, or what fits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u74	Yeah, if there's anything else out there. That's good, too. The application was made anyway. This has to be assessed. You will be informed of this. We will inform you as soon as there is something more known about your specific question. We need to check whether this is in Q1 or in Q2, but it is good to give a letter with content instead of just with process responses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u75	I couldn't agree more. That saves another motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u76	The people in Zeeland, and especially in Zeeland-Flanders, are also following this debate. They have also followed previous debates. They saw that the motion of the SP and the BBB was adopted to make the Westerschelde tunnel toll free as soon as possible. In the written answer to my questions there are three sentences about this. In fact, reference is made to the formation and the playbook. Now the Minister really avoids that question. I find that striking. I wonder why. In the schematic, the whole process begins with political decision-making by the cabinet. Why would we have to wait for that? There is a political majority for this. This majority has already decided to do so as soon as possible. Why can't we start with those first steps of the road map so that that tunnel can be toll free by January 2023? Why doesn't the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u77	I answered that question in writing. That's why I'm not answering it again. As you know, we are missionary. So we are not taking new decisions on new major projects that require additional funding. I have informed you of the financial consequences of this. I also informed you about what you would have to do in addition to this in order to achieve this. Of course, I'm talking to the county. He also picked up this glove from the playbook. The province looks at which traffic studies are still needed. What does that mean, for example, for nitrogen? These things all need to be picked up. I know that's what the province of Zeeland does. So the preparations are made, should a new cabinet decide to do so. But I don't think it's our position, given our missionary status, to take this decision now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u78	There are so many decisions taken by this cabinet that a outgoing cabinet should not normally take. In this case, it is not about reserving more money. I can make an amendment here, but by definition the coalition parties are going to vote against it because they are negotiating that money in the back room. So we're stuck. Then we catch up, then the people in Zeeland-Flanders are faced with delays, because of the political process here. While the first steps could already be taken, in anticipation of that decision. That decision will be taken, because a majority of the Chamber has already given its opinion on this matter. So why the delay? Surely we can start with those studies, those traffic surveys and those sustainability studies when it comes to nitrogen? Surely we can start with this, so that we can say here that we are all focusing on January 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u79	You have read in the letter from the Secretary of State and myself that during the last period we have only taken the decisions that we consider to be financially unavoidable, particularly in view of the financial problems that exist within the Mobility Fund. You have seen that we have dealt with this properly, by really looking at it: what is really needed at the moment? We believe that it is up to our successors, of whatever political colour, to then look with your Chamber, on the basis of new policies, to determine what is important when it comes to mobility. We must also be able to have that free space. We have chosen three elements that we believe we really should invest in. These are the plus facilities for ProRail, the Rotterdam harbour and the Zanddijk project. That is also the grant decision to ProRail. Those are the three decisions we are taking, which we say we must take now, because we cannot do it at a later date. Of all the other things, we believe that they should be weighed in their entirety and, of course, discussed with the Chamber before a decision can be taken. When it comes to the Westerschelde tunnel, the question is: are you prepared to make the funds available? That is indeed a political decision. The second is that the province is already investigating what you're referring to. I know that, because I have talked to the deputy from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management about this, and we also support it. We are looking at what is needed in research and how we can support it with our knowledge and know-how. So your concern that all these investigations are still, is not justified. My latest information is that the county is working hard on that. So that just goes on. Decision-making on money and on what you invest in, I really think it is up to a new cabinet, in view of the letter we sent to your Chamber, in which you have been able to read what the tasks are. There's a lot of them. That really deserves an integral weighting, along with all the other projects. Whether it's about mobility inland navigation, or projects on the track or on the road, that weighting should be made with your Chamber by a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u80	Fine. Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for your conciseness. If the Secretary of State is just as quick, then we will be sitting at 7:15, or perhaps a little later, at the dis. I'm gonna suspend for a few minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u81	I call the Secretary of State. I'm sure he'll go through it briefly and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u82	You're subtle tonight! Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their first-term questions in this budget debate. I've got five cubes. I have a very short general block. Public transport is my second block. The circular economy is third. Sustainable mobility as fourth. And don't worry about it, it's the environment. That is my fifth block: the clean and safe environment and its monitoring. Mr. Chairman. It is a special moment for me, because it is my first budget treatment from trade union K. Fortunately, I find myself in good company, not only with a number of MPs sitting in the Chamber in their first round, but I say to Mr De Hoop, Mrs Bouchallichh and Mr De Groot, among others, but with Mrs Beckerman and Mr Heerema we have a few other IenW maiden speeches, as I would like to mention. Mr. Chairman. I started this interesting adventure more than two months ago in many new fields. I have especially seen how much is happening and how much is needed. I mention the conversations with local residents around Tata in Wijk aan Zee. I call the transition to a much more circular economy. For example, there are entrepreneurs who ensure that we can reuse discarded clothing, whether in the same form or in new clothing. I call companies working on electric transport. They convert excavators with their developed batteries into electric excavators with which you can even make dikes. I also mention the transport operators in logistics, who, for example, are developing electric vans. Above all, I call all those people in public transport who also work with heart and soul in this heavy corona time, especially on rail. On the traffic management at ProRail I will come back separately, but in the last few weeks we have seen that it is really exciting there. I'll tell you more about it later, but that's what it's gonna be. In particular, I would like to express my appreciation here for all traffic control people at ProRail. They just have to work extra hard to keep things in the air. They come back from free days for that. They're really doing three more steps. As far as I am concerned, this deserves an extra compliment. Mr. Chairman. My observation is that the area of Infrastructure and Water State is both comprehensive and varied as well as of vital importance for our country. The Minister also had some nice examples about mobility. Of course, this is also the case with the water. That is not fiction, I say to Mr De Groot, who talked about the beautiful children's book on 'the Ministry of Solutions'. IenW's book is even non-fiction. We all do not know how long the outgoing cabinet will have to fulfil this role, but I will continue to work in the near future to further the objectives, whether it is the long-term assessment of climate neutrality or the environment or the quality of life. Mr President, that was my briefest possible first block. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to public transport. Something really special happened in the corona period. That is also right, because public transport is crucial. People have to go to work or family with that. Accessibility is actually a human right. You need to be able to move around the country. The cabinet in my predecessor's personal capacity has worked very hard on this with the whole public transport sector. A very strong safety net has been put in place, precisely because of that great public interest. Over EUR 2.5 billion has been spent on this. And I am not talking about the fact that, for example, the OV-student card of course also went through. Regional parties have also continued to make their contributions. It is a lot of money, and that is extremely well spent money, as far as I am concerned. Even today, the number of passengers is still significantly lower than in 2019. We're at about 60% now. With the new measures on working at home, it is also expected that this will lead to a temporary dip. That requires a lot of public transport. We are therefore trying to help them through as best we can, so that we can support the usefulness and importance of public transport, even towards the future. Because if you look beyond this corona crisis, which the Minister has already mentioned, at the need for mobility, then public transport, rail, is a growth market. More people will travel by public transport and rail. It is therefore particularly important that we ensure this well, even in these heavy corona times. Mr Alkaya and Mr De Hoop in particular have asked: you now have the availability fee, but what does that mean for the offer? I have already discussed this in detail with Mr Alkaya during last week's legislative consultation. We have, of course, built in safeguards, I say to Mr Alkaya and Mr De Hoop. The first deposit is in advance. Before driving, public transport authorities in their transport planning cycle shall forgive me that word every year the offer of public transport in their concessions. In practice, that is the timetable. That's what they align with the municipalities in their concession area. Regional or national passenger organisations have a right of advice. That way the timetable will come about. This way of working also fits with the decentralised nature of a lot of public transport. Then I'm not talking about the NS or the Wadden feathers, because that's rural. But all the other transport goes through the local authorities. They're responsible. In the meantime, I can also say that the new timetable, that of 2022, has been established in almost all concessions by the responsible administration. This new timetable has also been accepted by the local parliament. By the way, it will start on 12 December. That's a legal deadline. The second guarantee is ex post control, because we agreed that there should be no large scale scale. How do we guarantee that? Now let me be a little more precise about that than I could have been in the WHO. In the final account, transport companies must indicate to the local authorities whether they have fulfilled the conditions for the grant. They must prove that with an audit report. Then the local government can check whether that carrier has actually put those important conditions into practice. Eventually it lands at the Ministry of IenW. The subsidy shall then be definitively established. I could imagine that you would then ask me what came out of it. We're in the process of preparing for that right now. Next year, in 2022, applications for 2020 will be established. This will then be done in 2023 for the applications for the year 2021. That check through the accountants is still coming. The third thing we do, so the third guarantee, is that we keep an eye out and a finger on the wrist. In practice, I see that around 10% of public transport has been scaled down compared to 2019. But there really is still an appropriate, safe and good level of amenities. In the case of bus concessions, the scale is on average slightly larger than in the case of train. There it is about 85%, I say in particular to Mr De Hoop and Mr Alkaya. But the differences are great. There's a big spread. Let me give you an example. At the metro concession in Amsterdam we are now at about 81%. This has, of course, to do with the disappearance of a large part of the tourist flow. At the same time, there is more offer in Rotterdam compared to 2019. That has to do with the passage from the metro to Hoek van Holland. So you can see that in all these figures the local conditions also play a very important role. So that's what you see in the bus concessions. In the Drechtsteden, for example, up to 80% have been scaled down, but in North and Southwest Fryslân, I say in particular to Mr De Hoop, it is 88%. So the picture that the scale in the cities is always less than in the region is not the picture I get from the figures. I have already promised Mr Alkaya in the legislative consultation that we will inform him of what is happening, including in 2022. A motion has also been passed on this. If all the transport plans for 2022 are in place, the DOVA, the co-operating O.V. authorities, which make centrally available, will be in one place. Then you can go there, if you want it to be a lot of pages, I warn you to go even further into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u83	There is a question from Mr Alkaya, although he hesitated for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u84	Alignment's always good, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u85	Of course, you also have to negotiate with your group colleague on how many interruptions you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u86	You won, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u87	In this case, I won, and I lost the Secretary of State! The Secretary of State has already been able to provide much more information than in the legislative consultation. I am pleased with that, because I asked him to provide more insight into the scaling down of those bus lines in and following that corona crisis. I think it's important to have a picture of that. So thank you for this information, but it went fast and it was just a few examples. So I would also ask the Secretary of State to come forward with a letter and his own analysis at the moment that these audit reports are available in 2022: what did he think was the effect of this corona crisis on bus lines in the country? Make an analysis of that, so that we can have a debate on it in due course. Because now it's very anecdotal. It's a statue. That is more than the legislative consultation has shown, but I just want to be able to do a good check on it afterwards. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u88	This is for me to look for. I get the question. I can do a few things, but I also want to avoid a few things. This also affects the discussion or debate I had in the legislative consultation with Mr Alkaya. I do not want to go into what the local authorities do with their elected representatives in the case of decentralised concessions. I don't think that suits me. I have one role to play, namely that the availability fee eventually comes to IenW after the audit. If, through you, Mr President, you want to be informed of this to Mr Alkaya, if all this has happened, I am happy to say so. Then what exactly is in all these transport plans for 2022? They're all gonna be public. I will. I just gave you my general picture. But I want to stay away from judging on any trade-off within a decentralised concession, in which, for example, a province simply makes agreements with a carrier on specific bus lines or stops. Mr Alkaya said earlier in the debate that he is not looking for it. So if we have the audit reports for that year, I'd be happy to share them with you. This also concerns the justification of the availability fee. That's taxpayers' money, so I think that's a very good question. And I'll make the plans for next year public. But I think he's got the image he's looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u89	Of course, this goes beyond just the availability fee. The problem of transport poverty...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u90	I will come back to that in detail later. But be my guest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u91	Oh, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u92	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, for talking through Mr. De Hoop. You should never do that. That was my impatience. But I'm definitely gonna go along with his proposal. He has also tabled an amendment to that effect. Moreover, I will immediately give the amendments an appreciation in my first term, I say to you in advance, Mr President. I would also like to say a few words about the maintenance of the railways. The Minister gave an idea in the conservation letter we sent together. We believe it is important to share with your Chamber all the information we have at the moment, because we believe that the Chamber should know where we stand and what the picture is. I do not consider the question of whether or not a party is formal to be relevant. But that picture shows that there are just big deficits for conservation, including on the track. It may be of a different order than around roads and waterways, but it also plays on the track. We have decided before 2022 to make extra money available for this, because we think it is necessary. It's about 165 million, to be exact. One part of this is to start around the Port Railway in Rotterdam, I say to Mr Boulakjar, who asked for it. Only, that's not gonna be done with that first year. It'll ask for something the years after. But for the coming year, we have made additional funds available for ProRail. We could also have chosen to fill all the years after that with a cash drawer at the expense of 2036 and '37, but we felt that this would avoid the debate of principle that should be held here. The Minister rightly said that the ultimate is not a structural solution either. So you now have the state of play. In addition to the fact that ProRail has money for the Port Railway in the 165 million for next year, there is also 23 million for fire-extinguishing facilities in the Rotterdam port area, as you could also read in the letter. That's just what it takes to keep the trains running there. This is, of course, extremely important for the transport of goods. Let us not forget the transport of goods, as the Minister rightly said. That's one reason why we're doing that. That really couldn't wait. Mr. Chairman. Then the staff cut off at the air traffic control station at ProRail. Mr Madlener, Mr Boulakjar and Mr Amhaouch asked for this. For some time now, ProRail has really been dealing with staff cuts at the air traffic control stations. I expect it's gonna be tight until 2023. In September, I informed your Chamber of this, too, after a previous failure. ProRail currently employs around 750 train service leaders. There are about 60 vacancies open for that position. This shortage of staff is caused, among other things, by the shortage of labour in the public sector and also in the market sector in many areas in the coming years. I'm sure that's what's going on here. Mr Boulakjar also asked this question more broadly, for the rest of public transport. I'll answer it later. I would like to say once again that the people who are doing this important work are really working their butts off and are really prepared to jump where they can. They're doing everything they can to prevent train failure. 'Cause, of course, we hate that. ProRail hates that, and so do I, because it harms the traveler. However, it has not been possible to prevent this at all times. I spoke about this in my first meeting with the CEO of ProRail. Last Monday, I spoke to train controllers when I was allowed to visit Groningen on investments in the conversion of trains to the new ERTMS safety system. That is incredibly beautiful and wonderful work. I would like to say to all those who still think about it: consider it if you choose a career path. We really need these people. At the moment, there are shortages. That means it's vulnerable. We will not have put that vulnerability away in a single day or a week, I honestly say, no matter how hard it is being worked. So what do we do in the short term? In the short term, ProRail does a number of things. Additional staff from other air traffic control stations should be deployed where possible: additional training courses, remote workplaces, so that a train traffic controller from e.g. Zwolle can assist remotely in the Utrecht post and the temporary deployment of recently retired and other former train drivers. In the longer term, efforts are being made to increase inflow. The recruitment and selection budget has been substantially increased. As a result, the number of newly trained train drivers has tripled since 2018. Training is being kept under review and we are ensuring that current train drivers are more preserved for their function, because of course you also want to stop the outflow as much as possible. Nevertheless, we cannot rule out the possibility that problems will continue to arise that will affect travellers. That's really, really annoying. But this also applies to carriers; let us not forget it. That was the case on 2 November. Some of you mentioned that. It initially also threatened on 3 November. Fortunately, the trains were able to drive between Utrecht and Arnhem that day for a large part of the day. I have therefore been in close contact with the CEO of ProRail over the last few days, and the colleagues of the department have been in close contact with other colleagues of ProRail. What are the options? I have agreed with the CEO that they will now see what lessons we can learn from this week's outburst, where this threatened two days in a row. In addition, ProRail is in the process of getting inspired by a number of other sectors, which also have to do with this kind of cramped situation: police and air traffic control. What lessons can they learn from each other to see if there are any ideas for doing something about this? Thirdly, ProRail has told me today that it wants an external test to be carried out by two independent agencies in the short- and long-term actions. I think that is important, because then we will also keep it sharp that we can really validate that everything is put on everything and that we do not overlook things. I think it's wise that ProRail chose this. I'll discuss progress with ProRail myself next week. At the upcoming shareholders' meeting in mid-November, we will have a broader staff policy agenda. Because as you know, we also own ProRail. After the shareholders' meeting, I will inform your Chamber more about ProRail's plan of action and hopefully already about the results of the external test. You've heard me say this loud and clear. That's because I'm really considering that we're gonna get this more often over the next few days and weeks. I just want to be honest about that. There really is man and power working to prevent that, but this is really exciting. I saw De Speld had a humorous picture yesterday, but this really hangs on people. It also shows how important human work is. If some people aren't there, it could really go wrong on a trajectory. We are doing everything we can, but at the same time I say that the problem will not be gone overnight. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain that in greater detail, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u93	I find it a very disappointing answer. Let's say it's responsible work. I think they might have to avoid collisions, like an air traffic controller. If the pressure on those people is that high, it seems to me that this may cause dangerous situations. Apparently, ProRail's management failed to recognize this in time. They're now indicating it's gonna take until 2023. I just find that unacceptable. Then you can say "we're gonna do an investigation." That'll take how many months? Six months? That's just unacceptable. I believe that the Secretary of State ProRail should make it clear that this needs to be resolved in the short term. It may cost money. It sounds like a great job, if it's well rewarded. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State: is he prepared to talk to ProRail in the short term and demand a solution which will produce results in a much shorter period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u94	I've been talking to ProRail about this problem almost every day for the past few days. IenW's colleagues do the same. Do you know what the problem is? Mr Madlener said: this is very important work, because it may prevent collisions. Absolutely! Why is a line withdrawn from the timetable in exceptional circumstances? Because then safety with the controllers cannot be secured. Such important work it is. Mr Madlener is quite right about that. It is not, of course, the case that we are now doing research, sitting back and hoping to hear something in six months' time. A lot of actions have been initiated by ProRail. I think it is important that ProRail has chosen to have these actions validated externally and inspired by other organisations with similar problems. We all hope that this will have an effect as soon as possible, but precisely because this is such an important work, you will not be ready to do this work tomorrow. It is a long-term training course. That is why I think it is wise to try to seduce retired people to return temporarily and not leave an option unnamed. I have mentioned a whole list of things that are happening, but I think it is fair to say that this still does not mean that I can guarantee that it will not happen again in the next few weeks and months that traffic control is not there to a sufficient extent on specific lines. From the point of view of safety, that is exactly the point; Mr Madlener is absolutely right in saying that it is not justified to keep driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u95	I agree. Of course it is important work, but it has been a mistake of ProRail's management not to recognise this in time. You agree with me, I ask through the chairman. Secondly, we hear clearly that the problems will continue until 2023. I just find that unacceptable. Then we can't say, "Oh, well, that'll take another year and a half. Do your best and do an investigation"? That's impossible, isn't it? I would say: demand ProRail to have that resolved within six months. That must be the starting point. 2023 is far too late, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u96	I don't have much use for anger and demands, because I can't conjure these people up. ProRail really does everything you can to do that. I have listed you with a list of eight points which are now running in concrete terms. Just because I want to make sure that we don't miss anything, I think it's okay that they also understand themselves with a number of organizations that are also cramped on very specialized functions. Are there any lessons we can learn from them? And they're gonna have those two specialized agencies look at it. That is not a question of six months, because we do not have that six months at all, I say to Mr Madlener. How can it be sorted out as soon as possible? I hope we can make it less and less acute, but there are many vacancies, and they are not all filled in two months from now. It would be fantastic. We're gonna do everything we can, but honesty requires me to say that I can't make that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u97	That is not a very good situation, but the VVD appreciates that the Secretary of State is doing everything possible to see how we can get more train drivers. I have another question. It's about the replacement transport. That was also discussed yesterday. I don't know if you're going to come up with that, but I'm going to ask the question: can you talk to the concessionaires to make sure that people aren't in the cold at least? From the week we have also heard that people were unexpectedly there, but were not offered a replacement transport. You'll only be on your way to the job interview to become a train controller or a job in care or whatever. You can't make it up that crazy. Let's at least settle that well with each other, because it's gonna take a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr De Groot is now asking this question. Mr Amhaouch asked this question yesterday, so let me take those questions together. The question was: why were no buses used then, whereas the NS concession states that this is mandatory? That was Mr Amhaouch's question, and that is actually Mr De Groot's question, which is a different one. That's right. If reasonably possible, the NS must use buses. NS then looks at the transport flow: what is convenient? On a very busy intercity route, it is often more convenient to let people go by train, for example, than to let buses run. It just didn't work out on 2 November on that time to have buses available. Of course, it's also about large numbers. An intercity may involve a lot of buses. I have some sympathy for that, but I also agree with you that this is not the situation we want with each other. I will therefore indeed talk to the NS about what we can do, given the circumstances. The NS is also confronted with this; this is not something that goes wrong with the NS. I think it's fair to say that. Driving around with long trains is often faster for train passengers. But especially for those who want to travel between the intermediate stations, we must do everything we can to ensure that they come to their destination with replacement bus services, from a job interview to an important visit or work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u99	Firstly, we do want to appreciate all the traffic controllers and employees of ProRail. That's absolutely not the point. But the answer is not enough. I agree that this is actually not acceptable. This has been going on for a few years. I know the Secretary of State can't help it either. He's been there for three months. But this has been playing for ProRail for a few years. I believe that something fundamental must be done. I don't want to start with personal accusations, but I do want the information to come out. The first question, which I also asked in the first term, is: is there going to be an independent investigation? So not by ProRail himself, but independently. That is what the unions forced into the collective agreement. That's very important. This has been going on for so long, so the question is, what are we going to do about this? The point is, every year we have to add 60 more. I've read the information. I don't know how many people take training like this every year, but there's only 5% left. So that's not gonna be him either. If, with all this ambition, we need 750 traffic controllers in the future, it is not going to be. I don't know what equipment they all use and which IT. The question is this. For the short term, I agree with the Secretary of State. I think he talks to ProRail every day, but what is going to happen fundamentally at ProRail as an implementation organisation? I taste a bit that this is yet another implementation organisation that is starting to get stuck in one way or another. We're not talking about a little bumblebee train that's been pulled out of here. The Secretary of State says this is going to take longer: 2023, I read. This is about the connection between two provincial capitals: Arnhem and Utrecht. That's impossible, isn't it? I'd really like to set off the alarm bells here. The Secretary of State must get to work in the short term, but I also want to have the fundamental discussion. Again, is there going to be an independent investigation so we can see what needs to be done to make ProRail future proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u100	A few things. I also have Mr Amhaouch's urgency. Mr Amhaouch sounds the alarm bell, but I think that was also the short port of what I did myself. What am I going to do and what is ProRail going to do? A lot. Is there going to be an independent investigation? Yes. I think it is wise for ProRail to choose independent agencies to review that plan of action. I support that, and I think that is important. Since they choose it, I'm glad I don't have to ask for it anymore. I like that ProRail does that himself. It is also about working conditions, for example. I think that's important, too. Are they attractive enough to recruit people? We have a total of 750, I say to Mr Amhaouch, before there is any misunderstanding. That's what we're gonna do. Extending this to the total ProRail organization at once does not do me justice to the performance of ProRail, which you can all read in the annual report. But I fully agree with you that this is totally unacceptable. Moreover, anger and excitement do not help me, nor does the traveller. What I see is a lot of actions. I have real daily contact with ProRail. Our secretary general is in contact with ProRail. A lot of policy makers are in contact with ProRail. This needs to be resolved as soon as possible. I think it is fair and fair to say that we are doing everything we can to improve it. I have no second to doubt the commitment of ProRail and the boss of ProRail to solve this. External investigations are being carried out. The good news is the class is full now. That's important. That doesn't solve all the problems in one go. But we're doing everything we can. I am on top of this, I say to Mr Amhaouch, with ProRail together. So I'm not going to argue between me and ProRail in the sense that I don't trust ProRail either. This is a major problem that needs to be tackled very quickly. I did not need Mr Amhaouch's encouragement that I should be on top of this, but I hope not to disappoint him. Mr. Chairman. Then the gentleman asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u101	One more question from Mr Boulakjar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u102	A afterburner, because I was already standing for an interruption. Many questions have already been asked, and I can agree with that. Some of them are a little bossy, but I'll try to keep it a little nuanced. First of all, congratulations on what the Secretary of State is already doing. By the way, I should like to pay tribute to the traffic controller who invaded yesterday, which allowed trains to run. I paid a summer's work visit to ProRail, in the traffic control room. So I know how stressful a job like that can be. In my contribution yesterday, I asked questions about the broader working capacity, i.e. about technical people. People who work by rail, like conductors and engineers. It's a crucial sector... Are you going to answer that question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u103	Yeah, I'm sorry, I'll tell you more in advance what I'm gonna do. I was now replying to Mr Boulakjar's question about the wider, sufficient view of the outflow of people working in certain professions on the railways. That is a legitimate, very important question. This is indeed not just about traffic controllers, but also about technical specialists, engineers and conductors. The NS has informed me that there are currently no real capacity problems in certain professions. It's for everyone to look for. Technical people are just scarce, no matter what sector you're looking for them in. It is often specialised work for which people need to be trained. That's true with the NS and ProRail. Especially ProRail and the railway contractors now notice it, especially when attracting sufficiently qualified technical staff. And they see together what they can do therein. There are things we can do about it, including as a political one, I say. ProRail can do things for itself, such as with labour market communication and perhaps with working conditions, and try to recruit proactive talents. One of the things that we can do, which the Minister has already mentioned, is, for example, multiannual plans for management, maintenance, replacement and renovation. Longer advance planning gives more certainty to the work that ProRail can do itself and to the railway contractors who do that work. So if it were possible to look forward with stable funding over a long period of time, the chances of finding people in a tight labour market to do that work would of course be greater. Then companies can prepare for that and then there are people. If it goes up and down very erraticly, then suddenly you have extra money but there's no one to do the job. I'd be happy to give you that lesson anyway. I'll keep an active watch on staff from IenW. At ProRail, the demand for staff is wider in this tight labour market. That is a point on which my ministry has been discussing for a long time, also in the context of the ownership role in the shareholders' meeting, which I mentioned earlier. It has already been discussed there. It will also have to remain on the agenda, because Mr Boulakjar is right: the challenge here is wider than the very acute, urgent problem with which I started this block. Mr. Chairman. Mr Boulakjar also asked questions about the Klimaticket in Austria. What does that mean for the Netherlands? It's always complicated. I saw the same message a few weeks ago. I then share the initial enthusiasm that it sounds fantastic. Shouldn't we want to? For students, we have something similar with the O.V. student card. You can expand that, but I would point out that it's not free at all. For the student card, we pay EUR 900 million per year through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science. If we take over the initiative as there is in Austria, we would have to pay around €4,000 per participant who buys such a Klimaticket. That's a very gross estimate, out of your mind, to give you a bit of a sense of the order of magnitude. So that's our very gross calculation. Assuming that as many people would participate as the current percentage in Austria, the introduction of such a Klimaticket would cost around 900 million. That's not small money. You can't or won't give up on that. I leave that to others. At least that doesn't seem to me to be something of a missionary ruler. I'd like to add one more thing. Previous experiments showed that free or cheaper train tickets in practice mainly mean that people who already travel by train will make more kilometres. Actually, it wasn't so much the case that people took the step from the car to the train. We are, of course, talking a lot about conservation in this budget debate. Of course, the Minister and I have chosen this very consciously. What is the best investment you can make with scarce euros? That's a question you might ask yourself here. Is that a Klimaticket? Or should you provide more high-quality public transport? Then you improve the quality. Then you work on high-frequency track. I'll give it to you for consideration. Finally, Mr President. Of course, the bike can't be missed here. My predecessor has always said that the bike is our secret weapon against the crowds and for clean air. That's right, of course. The bike is fast, healthy and cheap. The speed's in. I have answered some of your questions in writing, but I would like to mention the following. For example, look at bicycle parking at stations. A great deal has happened in that regard. Here, in my own beautiful city of The Hague, I was last allowed to show 35 ambassadors through a natural fantastic bicycle storage. I was in Groningen last Monday. There they are also working on a beautiful new bicycle shed. This applies to many other places in the country where things have been delivered. The red asphalt is moving up, too. That is asphalt, which perhaps even Mr Van Raan gets excited about, I say to Mrs Van Esch. This concerns fast cycling routes throughout the country, so that you can ride your bike quickly and safely. I therefore hope that we have managed to build a small bridge between Mr Van Raan and the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I promised Mr De Hoop that I would say something about the shrinking areas. He has tabled an amendment to set up a accessibility programme for shrinking areas, as proposed in the Broad Social Reviews. In my opinion, Mr De Hoop has read the record very well. I'll deal with that amendment right now. It's true: population shrinkage can put pressure on accessibility. Certainly people without a car or a driver's license are at risk if public transport were to decline. In general terms, provinces and government authorities are already playing into this by making local tailor-made concessions. Because, of course, it is the local authorities and the elected representatives who control them that have an interest in ensuring that transport poverty, as Mr De Hoop calls it, does not occur and that people can do something about it. That is also why we pay for the concessions in many parts of the Netherlands. The NS pays us, but other concessions include tax money, precisely because we think this is a public service of great value. You can often look at this with a broad eye, and so do regions. Think of Mobility as a Service, MaaS in the jargon. The more experienced IenW participants know that word even better than I do. It is therefore about the efficient use of public transport, bicycle connections to public transport lines and mobility hubs. These are all smart ways to maximize every euro of taxpayers' money we put in there. Do you really want to put a lot of new policies into that? That is what I really think of a new cabinet, I say to Mr De Hoop. Therefore, although I have a great deal of sympathy for the content, I should also advise against the amendment because of its coverage, which actually takes money out of 'roads' and the Mobility Fund. He has already seen that we have sent a letter about how many billions we lack there every year, and that is also a small profit warning for some of the other amendments, of which the proposers say how do you say? The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment adopted an opinion on the proposal for a Council Directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to I'm really gonna dissuade them here, because I don't think we... You can link it to projects, you know. I understand it all, but the task there is so great that taking money away from me and, dare I say, does not seem to us responsible. So that amendment, I say to Mr De Hoop, I advise against, not because I do not appreciate the purpose, but mainly because of the coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u104	I have to admit that I did not expect the ruler to give my amendment judgement Chamber. So that doesn't surprise me, but I don't care, because we just have a difference of opinion about that. What I do think is important is the issue of transport poverty. At the beginning of the year, I received an undertaking from the Secretary of State that an investigation, including a response from the cabinet, would be carried out at the end of the year into transport poverty. The written reply to the first deadline showed that that commitment cannot be met and that it will be next year. I find that very unfortunate, because I find the problem of transport poverty and its urgency very important. I've also opened a hotline in the last few weeks. I mentioned several situations in my first contribution and they are really just the tip of the iceberg. I received more reactions after Tuesday. I think it's really frightening. I can imagine that if an investigation is completed, there can be no response from the cabinet at this time. But what I would like to ask the Secretary of State is to think about policy options to tackle the problem of transport poverty and to look at next year's concession to see how we can deal with those glasses of transport poverty. Despite the fact that I am disappointed that this commitment has not been honoured, I would ask that it be carried out in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u105	I'd like to think about that question. To begin with, I apologize to Mr De Hoop! If we don't meet a deadline, I should have just called him in. He should not have read that in the written reply. I apologize for that. I want to do two things. The first thing I want to do is see when that investigation comes. Is it gonna be before the summer or are we gonna be back any further? Is there anything else we can do? Of course, it must be a good investigation, because otherwise, you and I wouldn't be much use. How soon can this happen in the new year? I'll chew on your request, because I know what you're looking for. It concerns Mr De Hoop's request, Mr President. Of course, that sheet contains all the policy options. Your amendment is actually about that. Those are exactly the kind of things you could do. But that is a political choice and I am therefore not sure whether I can add anything to this type of text. The second is that local authorities can already do things through their own concessions. But I have some doubts, not because I do not share the point or because I want to take something away from Mr De Hoop's genuine concerns. There's a reason he set up a hotline for it. But I doubt that I can add anything to, for example, such a fully developed policy variant. I don't know if I'm really helping Mr De Hoop with that. I'm always willing to figure something out, but if it doesn't work out for the problem in the end, I think it's a waste of everyone's energy. Maybe I can chew on that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u106	It also very much affects Mr Alkaya's point that, as a Member of Parliament, you want to have insight into where the problem of transport poverty is greatest. In 2018 there was also an investigation from CBS and PBL. For example, in Heerlen, 12% of people are at high risk of transport poverty. We all know that in Heerlen the equality of opportunity is a huge problem. If I have that intelligible, you can also look at several files in full and see how we can get to work with them. I just really want to see that as a Member of Parliament. If I don't get that until the summer, when I made a request at the beginning of the year to get it at the end of this year, there's just a whole gap between that and that. I am looking for something that I, as a Member of Parliament, can do with, because I am very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u107	I've got that search, too. That, of course, was the reason why we considered your request for an investigation to be very sensible. I would just like to make sure that I am not going to free all kinds of people who are going to think of something that is actually a lame impression of the good research that is being done now, which you then think is 'that's not what I was looking for' and which we might not be able to do with. Then we won't be helped. If Mr De Hoop will allow me, I would like to think about that for the second time. I would just like to look at the deadline for this investigation, because that research is the basis we need. Everything else is quickly speculated, even if we are going to do policy options. I'd like to avoid that, too. Maybe we can continue this conversation in second term. I really understand what Mr. De Hoop is looking for. And again, I apologize for that investigation coming later. There's nothing the investigators can do about that. You can just leave that with me. Mr. Chairman. That was my block on public transport and rail. Which brings me to the cube of circular. The other cubes are much shorter, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u108	I've been meaning to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u109	I felt that flawless, Mr. Chairman. You looked at me so intensely. Mr President, the cube is circular. The circular economy is one of the themes that has hit me the most. There is a great mission for all of us. We are very good at recycling in the Netherlands. We are also getting better at making new material from old material, and we are rediscovering the value of repair and reuse. I say this in particular, of course, to Mr Stoffer, who often saw his grandfather repairing things, as we learned from his input. I paid a visit to Wieland, just above Amsterdam. There, huge piles of textiles, 9 million kilos, get a new life, thanks to innovative machines that sort and make part of those old, no longer portable clothing completely fiber again and eventually almost wire, where you can make new stuff again. Then you are back in the new textile industry and I managed to link Mr. Stoffer's grandfather to Mrs. Hagen's grandmother within one minute, who recalled that her grandmother worked in an Amsterdam sewing workshop. Especially in the area of textiles, there is still a world to be won. Mrs Hagen rightly called for a great deal of attention to be paid to this. For example, making one pair of jeans costs 8,000 litres of water. Mrs. Hagen already knew that. I found that telling and frankly shocking. But of course we have nothing to do with ambition, so you are going to ask me the question: what are we all doing? Let me mention a few things. To begin with, we have already introduced deposit money on small plastic bottles. That's what you see in the stray garbage. That's good news. It shows it's working. There will also be deposit on cans next year. That starts at the end of December 2022. Mrs. Van Esch asked what my vision is. Of course, I want a more ambitious circular economy, but the day Mrs Van Esch tells me I'm going too fast, I don't think I'm going through it. As far as I am concerned, a solid foundation has been laid. Along with a lot of parties, organisations, but certainly also companies that see great opportunities in this. From circular mattresses to clothing: a lot is happening. But that doesn't mean we're here now. We really need more policy for that. I sent the update of the circular economy implementation programme to your Chamber on 18 October and said that the focus should shift far more to the front of the production chain, to reduce resource use and ensure maximum value retention. This is about re-use, circular design, sharing and all ways to "get higher on the R ladder" in the jargon. An example is the program CIRCO, which advises manufacturing companies and product designers to circular design of their product, service or business model, in which more than 1,000 companies and 500 designers have now participated. We are also working on measures in Europe, because in the internal market this is still working very well. The European Commission's action plan also announces various initiatives, such as circular design, but also a mandatory percentage of recycling. Mr President, I would like to close with this block, but I will say one specific thing about textiles. Ultimately, a real system change requires more than all beautiful projects so far. It requires standards, for example mandatory recyclation. It's about producer responsibility. It calls for pricing, a level playing field between re-use products and products that use scarce raw materials and have CO emissions. We will have to solve these price differences more systemicly if we really want to make the big impact. As I said, the textile sector is one of the most polluting sectors. For example, I go to TexPlus myself on Monday, where six Overijssel frontrunners work on circular textiles. We also have a separate policy programme specifically aimed at circular textiles. I think many of you here in the room know the Denim Deal, for example, which makes up at least 3 million pieces of nails made of recycled material. We are also committed to an ambitious European strategy, because I think the word 'Europe' is important here. Every year I also inform your Chamber about the progress of textile policy. I expect to be able to do that again next spring. Mrs Hagen asked whether the importance of regional investment was sufficiently secured in the IenW budget. I think they're in the picture at the Empire. On my budget, the circular economy budgets are not left; Mrs Hagen is right about that. They are also partly temporary, so if you think you feel this as a hint, then you have it right. We have a lot of intensive contact with the Denim Deal. An initiative such as the Amsterdam House of Denim we do together with the metropolis region of Amsterdam. This year we have the Dutch Circular Textile Valley, which plays a role. We have textile hubs. We've got lots of things. We've got the Urgenda meds. This summer we provided occasional grants for initiatives around Amsterdam and Twente. Mr. Chairman. All in all, it is certainly on the agenda, but more is really needed here if we are to make the great systemic change in which circular economy is not something special or something new, but the core of the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u110	Maybe I want to make the block a little longer with a question on my point about reuse. I gave the example yesterday of the reuse of a fire door in circular construction. I read in the written answer that if entrepreneurs want to build circularly, they can go to Het Versnellingshuis. We agree on that. We've talked about that before. But I also made a point about obtaining a permit from the municipality or the waterboard. There perhaps more knowledge and expertise should be secured to ensure, for example, the use of such a fire door. You're not actually responding to that. I would like to ask you: do you agree with the VVD that we might be able to do more if we just use a little more knowledge and expertise in municipalities, waterboards and perhaps provinces, to make sure we get re-use, which is win-win?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u111	I understand this question very well. The Acceleration House aims to support initiatives. If I understand Mr De Groot's question correctly, he says: is there a need for more knowledge development in our fellow governments and perhaps also in the government itself? I think that's an interesting question. I'm gonna go chew on it. I'm going to try to answer it in second term, otherwise I'll do it in writing. But I understand very well what you're looking for. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a word about plastic. Mrs Van Esch asked: are there enough steps to be taken? Mrs. Bouchallichh had her concerns about deposit money. Plastic is a versatile material, but it also has major disadvantages for the environment. We find it a lot in stray garbage. That doesn't make our environment more beautiful and cleaner. We can see that there are indeed concerns about deposit money, among others Mrs Bouchallichh and Mrs Van Esch talked about this about a kind of shift to non-stationary beverage packaging. We'll keep a close eye on that. I will start by saying that I always think that is a nice thing, as a first step, we will soon be talking to the companies in order to determine what is really happening in the market. In addition, the deposit money comes on cans. Mrs Bouchallichh asked whether the deposit money system, collection outside the supermarket, is actually desirable. First of all, we are still looking at how this is going to be done. But what I really want to be careful about and perhaps a little warning about is that we are sitting here in the chair of industry. Why am I asking? Not because I want to take them nicely, but because they've just gotten a tough target: 90% recycling or there's gonna be fines. They must ensure that. So they have every interest in getting these intake devices where people are. These may be supermarkets, but I can also imagine that it is decided to do it closer to its use. Mrs Bouchallichh once mentioned stations herself. If you don't mind me quoting her, where can I put my bottle? So I really want to be careful that I sit here on the chair of the industry, which puts it with me. They need to fix something now, make something, so that it gets 90%. It's in the law. That's what they have to do. Finally, in the field of plastic. You have seen that I have consulted on how we deal with single-use plastics, the implementation of the directive. We really need to take steps when it comes to coffee cups. Every year, billions of these cups go from paper to paper, but then there's plastic in the incinerator. In total, this is something like 8 billion pieces, I say out of my mind. These are both coffee cups and meal packs. That is why we now have something in consultation that says on-site consumption 'do a reusable alternative', whereby if you don't, you have to get a very high recycling rate, intake rate. We also need to take steps when it comes to take-out. There it is, I say honestly, even less far with the alternatives. We just don't find what's going on out there anymore, that's my call. That's why this is in consultation. That was this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u112	I'm glad to hear the Secretary of State speak of system change. That was a very important point for me yesterday. I am also pleased that we have a shared concern about................................................................................................................................................................................................... What I am a little concerned about, what I fear is that we also talked about environmental crime yesterday, how some companies are carrying out risk analyses and taking possible fines into account, is that, at the end of the journey, we have to find that the target has not been achieved. It's a shame. Then perhaps fines will be paid, but then we are not one step further when it comes to the intake that we really want to achieve. It's not about fines, it's about cash. We want it taken. Hence my question to the Secretary of State as to what he can do in the meantime, during this trial. We are indeed waiting for the outcome. We're gonna let industry think about this for itself. But what more can we do to prevent us from making a sad observation at the end of the journey? I really want to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u113	I'd like to avoid that with Mrs. Bouchallichh. I'm about to talk about environmental crime. This is where the system works something else, because this is where the ILT is. When it comes to periodic penalty payments, for example, the penalty payment is determined in such a way that it pays to still place that stuff. If it costs €5,000 to place a deposit money machine or a glass tray depending on where it is, one will, the experience, impose a penalty payment that is higher than that amount, so that it is completely in the interests of the companies to still place those things. That is what Mrs Bouchallichh and I want, that those intake points will be there and that 90% will be reached. That's not for getting money. The ILT determines the amounts in such a way that simply complying with the law is cheaper than paying the fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u114	I will come back to textiles, as you can imagine. Many thanks for the written answer on the ACM's investigation of consumer misdirection. Thanks for getting that by the end of this year, at least the first research results. Perhaps before the committee debate on 18 November, but we shall see about that. I had another question about the textile industry. The investments that are needed are very diverse. Sometimes it is a spinning mill and sometimes the intermediate phase of flax production in Zeeland is that it is woven here and that there are actually studios needed. I get it when the multitude of things that are needed to restore that chain isn't entirely in your mind. But my question to the Minister is the following. If you are going to work, would you please also draw these people's attention to the extra money available and show them the way to the Acceleration House?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u115	I assume the question wasn't for the minister, but for me. I'd love to, because I really think the Acceleration House is a fantastic initiative. I can't talk enough about the findability of our support tools. So thank you for the encouragement. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment briefly on sustainable mobility. Oh, Mrs. Van Esch has another question I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u116	Yeah, but she's through her interruptions. So I have some bad news for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u117	Then I'm going to make a point of order, because I just asked questions about unanswered questions. Those weren't interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u118	Well, besides that, you've caused so many interruptions. Anyway, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u119	I've counted. I don't think I've made any further interruptions, just two at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u120	So are we.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u121	I have one very brief interruption. That is more an opinion or a question to the Secretary of State about the deposit money system that business is now developing for cans. I hope that this Secretary of State will keep his finger on the pulse to ensure that it becomes a system in which consumers, who are about to pay for those cans, can simply turn in their cans. I think it is the task of the government to take a really good look at this. We can say that it is up to business to develop it. However, it is up to us, the government, to ensure that we will soon have a system in which citizens can also get back their money they have paid, and to ensure that we get an easy system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u122	Sure. Two answers. One: I'll talk to the industry soon. Two, as a room, you've come up with something smarter than what you're afraid of right now. You have put in the law: 90% must go back. That means that if there is now one party that has an interest in putting that can in that device, it's the industry. Otherwise, we're gonna pay the fines. So I'm not doing that industry because I'm waiting for it, but because you've been smart enough to just make a very sharp law. As a result, the industry has every interest in ensuring that there is a system in which you and I can put that can. Otherwise, they won't make it to 90%. But I think we're in complete agreement on the goal. Mr. Chairman. I would like to focus briefly on mobility and its sustainability. That is a great and necessary ambition. The Netherlands is doing very well on a number of points. Take the electric buses. A quarter of the buses in Dutch public transport are now completely electric. Last week I was allowed to be at the opening of the production line of the Ebusco 3.0, where the king started production. This is a good example of how climate policy simply leads to jobs and economic growth. We are making 40 million extra available in order to provide additional support to the public transport companies, even in these difficult times, so that they can also ensure that these zero-emission buses are introduced in their tenders. And indeed, the goal of 2030 for passenger transport vehicles is that all newly sold cars should be zero emission cars. In the European Commission's "Fit for 55" proposal, that is 2035, but we discussed with your Chamber a week and a half ago that it is our commitment to really try to achieve this by 2030. With Prinsjesdag we have also made additional funds available for the support of the electric car. We have done so by means of a significant change, which I think is important. Support for the business driver is greatly reduced, and with that money we want to make the purchase of a new or second-hand zero emission car more attractive to private individuals. We also lowered the cap in the add-up. You can do that with the offer. That is precisely what we have done in order to respond to the concern that there is overstimulation, or that it is mainly for expensive cars for rich people. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In doing so, we have been able to ensure that the CO savings of that measure, about a megaton, could also be maintained. If we had carried out the "hand on the crane" system strictly from the Climate Agreement, we would have lost that megaton of CO reduction. I don't think we want any of that. Mr De Groot asked: how can we prevent the loading infrastructure from becoming the new bottleneck? I paraphrase Mr De Groot a little bit. I think that is a very fair question and I very much agree with him. 'Cause I think the offer's gonna be super fast. We support zero emission cars and, if it's up to us, we're also going to demand that new cars are zero emissions from 2030. Then you must be able to load that car somewhere. And when we get the zero emission zones for city logistics, you're gonna want you to just load that van somewhere. We have the National Agenda Loading Infrastructure. There's a lot of cooperation going on. That is quite special, and that is a good example that I can always tell colleagues in other countries. And you can see it's having some effect. Between 2016 and last March, the number of charging points added is about tripled. There are now 1,500 to 2,200 new charging points per month compared to the period before we had that national agenda. But we still have a giant scale jump to make. When I look at the future myself, I see a few big challenges. The first is a grid increase for electricity. That's a real point. Those charging posts do need to be powered from the power grid. The second is the implementation capacity of municipalities, which are often directed to ensure that these loading posts can be built. This is also one of the major potential bottlenecks in the zero emission zones as far as I am concerned. The third is: how do we ensure that the basic network for the loading infrastructure is further expanded? We believe that the vast majority of logistics will be loaded on our own premises. This raises a very different question than the question that you and I may have later, namely where we can put an electric car in the street. Big investments are still needed here. We are working hard on this, but I think that in any future climate policy it is very important to have an eye not only for the supply of cars but also for people to be able to pay for them but also to be able to load them somewhere. So thank you for the exclamation mark behind that important point. Mr. Chairman. I see that Mr Madlener cannot wait. I would also like to thank him for all the compliments I received from him through my party, sometimes also for successes in his view that I was unaware of D66 having achieved them. The name was so often in Mr Madlener's contribution in the first term that I did not want to leave it unmentioned. I would like to come back to Mr Stoffer's amendment on the subsidy scheme for LNG. I am not going to recommend that amendment, because in the Climate Agreement we agreed to offer this scheme for two years on a one-off basis. The payback period for LNG is now under three years. We can even speak of a market which, as far as I am concerned, can stand on its own feet. The extension of the aid would no longer pass the European Union's state aid test, as is our assessment, including from the Ministry's experts. In addition, the promotion of bio-lng, which has a higher CO reduction than fossil LNG, will follow from the RED II on 1 January. That is why I reject the amendment. That's the end of this block, Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the last block, last but not least: environmental policy and a clean and safe environment. We are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of this. As I said earlier, we are allowed to write the M of the environment and the G of health with a capital letter a little more often than economics and climate. On October 14th, I was allowed to consider 50 years of Dutch environmental policy; yet reason for a small party. The Prime Minister of the Environment, in 1971, was Louis Stuyt, an internist. I think this is a good example of the fact that the environment and health are inextricably linked. He saw the environment as another way to work on public health. I think that is a good illustration of all the discussions we are having at the moment in this beautiful area. In this context, Mrs Van Esch spoke about the active rather than a reactive policy. Work is underway on a new national environmental policy framework that a new cabinet can offer. At least that is already there, but it must be converted into an environmental programme, an action programme as far as I am concerned, by a new cabinet. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to say that Mrs Van Esch will receive the letter she has long awaited about the Swiss combustion method, which I myself have learned at the beginning of next week. One of the pollutants we often talk about is pfas, a non-degradable substance. It's not breaking down, it's hoping and it's actually everywhere, including all of us. I thought that was a good example of appearance. As far as I am concerned, we simply have to turn off the tap, but I would like to give you another warning. Even if we turn off the crane very quickly, we all want that, even in a European context, it does not mean that it is gone. This means that we will need long operational frameworks, but also that we will have to deal with the large contaminated sites. At the moment we are working on the image of the so-called hotspots from which pfas can spread again. I will have to take advantage of the money that is still available for the more traditional rehabilitation operations, which I would like to mention, which betrays my age, the 'Lekkerkerkgeld', for those who can remember. We are taking very big steps there, and some of that money can also be used for this. But this is a major problem, as I see from the European colleagues. Think of training facilities where fire drills are done. That's a really big problem. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this reorganisation is not self-evident. It may be very important to prevent this substance from building up further. Mrs Beckerman asked if we are not really too soft with regard to environmental crime. I mentioned earlier in a committee debate, in which Mrs Beckerman was also present, that if you look at reports on this, you will see that it is not being dealt with enough. This is also apparent from the reports we had on the agenda at the time. There is intensive contact between the Ministry of Justice and Security and IenW, for example in the program "I prefer a good neighbor!', That's what this is all about. A small relativization towards Mrs Beckerman: it is not just a matter of sorrow and torment. For example, Shell was fined 2.5 million euros in connection with the Moerdijk explosion and a manure fraudster was sentenced to three years of unconditional imprisonment. We have also arranged that periodic penalty payments are fortunately no longer deductible from the tax on profits, as they were in the past. Before Christmas, I will inform you more about the progress of the programme "I prefer a good neighbour!" and thus on the current approach to environmental crime. In the Van Aartsen report, which I will end with my answer, this is, of course, also an important part. Mrs Beckerman is on the Interrupt Microphone, but I see that she will be happy if I start by assessing her amendment on asbestos. Mrs Beckerman rightly points out that, following the rejection of the ban on asbestos roofs in the Senate, which was adopted by a very large majority in this Chamber, the pace of reorganisation has indeed been roughly halved. I think that's a big problem. If you want to do that, it's gonna take a lot of money, at least if you want to give it a grant or a financial contribution. A big question is also what this means for regulation. I think this is such a big point that I think it is more of a point for a new cabinet. I think Mrs Beckerman was expecting that answer a little bit. But, of course, I fully agree with the aim of the amendment. What I do have a problem with, however, regardless of what Mrs Beckerman wants to achieve, is again the coverage from the Mobility Fund. I think I have told you often enough that we also need that money from it and that there are even very large deficits. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the VTH system. This is the last part of my contribution, I would also like to say to the President. I come to the report of the Van Aartsen Commission on licensing, monitoring and enforcement in the field of the environment. This places us in great choices, for example about independence, and raises questions like: how do we shape the system? And is there enough capacity? Mrs Bouchallichh then took a small advance by making one-off money. On that amendment, I would like to say that you cannot, of course, increase the capacity of organisations with one-off money, because you cannot recruit for one year. You could do training with it. So I am not going to say that it makes no sense, but the real objective that we want to achieve, which is related to the question of whether there is enough capacity, I would really like to include in the letter that you get under the Christmas tree. I promised you that. Following a broad debate in the Chamber, Mr Grinwis' request was also to really come up with options. You also called on me to be as enthusiastic as possible as a missionary, and if there are possible quick wins, for example for sharing information, to prepare legislation or even to implement them. I will. But I would advise against Mrs Bouchallichh's amendment to withdraw money from the Mobility Fund. I'm not just dealing with man and power around Tata Steel, I owe you that, but I owe you that. I think you'd like to take that from me, too. I think this is an extremely urgent report. Finally, Mr President, if I may. I was talking about 50 years of environmental policy. On this occasion, a very nice photo book was made by the Ministry to visualize this, with the name: Attention to everyday life. In it are all pictures that I remember from my childhood. They are pictures of filthy swirling rivers with lots of white foam, acid rain and..................................................................................................................... Now if you see pictures of those streets that I was allowed to see in The Hague last time you often see a separate bike path. So we are also making progress on topics. There's still a lot to do. Environmental policy deserves a larger m. But I would like to present this book to you today, Mr President, and to provide a copy to my fellow Members at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u123	Oh, we're all getting a present. That's nice! Is there a poem in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr President, I would prefer to leave this matter to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you. I am happy to receive the book and I will give it a nice place in our new library. Your term is up for this. Thank you very much for that. There are still questions. I'm gonna do it in the order people signed up for. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u126	It's like Oprah Winfrey here! We all get a book. That's great, but... the VVD has again...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u127	The VVD gets one now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u128	Ah, okay. But let me ask you a serious question. It's a bit unsatisfying, isn't it? We actually hear the outgoing cabinet say everything: we agree with the opposition; we do not take a letter from Van Aartsen. But at the same time everything is pushed through. We can write "environment" with a capital letter or even with all capital letters, but the problem is that emissions continue and residents have no certainty. The charming thing about my colleague Mr Bouchallichh's amendment is that we can intervene and increase that knowledge and that we do not have to wait until we have a Christmas tree. I don't really understand why the outgoing cabinet is so opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u129	As I said, this amendment is covered by the mobilisation of the Mobility Fund. We have sent you a letter stating that we are already running out of 2 billion a year for management and maintenance alone. That is not about the content of the policy. You know that I want to take great steps in this regard. I also think that this could be about larger amounts than what is in it, but I would find that a faint argument. That's why I don't use it. You can say: it's a step, occasional money. This is useful for training and knowledge development, but not for capacity expansion. In all honesty, I say this will also be necessary. But it's in the cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u130	Well, that's interesting, of course. Environmental crime alone is estimated to cause 4.3 billion in damage. That is money that we can use very well in many other ways. I cited an example in Farmsum. There has been deliberate environmental crime for six years, but one gets away with a fine of €5,000. That while neighbors have millions of damages. If only the cover is a problem, I think there must be something to be found on it. What I find faint, I would like to point out, is that the cabinet says that much more needs to be done. That's exactly what the cabinet doesn't want, so don't blame the opposition. We're just coming up with a charming interlude. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u131	On the first point, I think you repeat the words that I have just said, that it is not in that. I promised to give an assessment in the letter of inquiry of what I think is structuralally necessary in terms of capacity. Those are choices for a new cabinet, I think. But again, I do not even get to that question, but not because I do not fully support the direction of Mrs Bouchallichh's initiative. That capacity is very important. We also need to take more independence steps and share information. We have also said that we take the point of the penalty into account in the letter. But there's a missionary cabinet. We all hope there will be a missionary cabinet soon. However, in the case of funding from a Mobility Fund, I said that if it is only about management and maintenance, replacement and renovation, EUR 2 billion for climate adaptation, EUR 2 billion per year is in deficit. Then you can also understand that this coverage does not lead to enthusiasm with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u132	Like the Secretary of State, the report of the Van Aartsen Committee was one of the first I met and I was shocked, so I don't doubt the approach. I am sorry because I think this amendment is almost an act of desperation. Indeed, it is not structural, it does not solve the problem. We've spoken before in committee debates. We felt a shared frustration. We also shared them during the debate. This is the least we can do, I hope, because we do have to wait constantly for all kinds of follow-up paths, while the Van Aartsen Committee clearly states that we need all ten points to bring about change. The second point concerns coverage. As I said yesterday, we are not in favour of the collapse of roads and bridges, contrary to what is claimed here. We have looked very explicitly at how we want to regulate the coverage. That will not go out of maintenance or out of necessary business. We have looked explicitly at what could no longer be done. I also talked about it yesterday: bullshit highways! Why are we going to spend money on things that we don't need, when there's something explicitly on the map that clearly is a problem that affects a lot of people directly? Meanwhile, money is being reserved for things that are unnecessary, bad for the climate and bad for health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u133	I fully agree with Mrs Bouchallichh on the importance of all ten recommendations made by the Van Aartsen Committee. I was very pleased to see that that was actually recognised as Chamberwide. I'm a missionary, I can't change that, that's the reality. We don't have a new cabinet yet. That's not something I can change here either. That is also the reality. What I have done is that I have looked up the border, together with you, in that committee debate, as enthusiastic and ambitious as possible, already. Don't say: the new cabinet makes a cabinet response, but now come up with all the proposals. We're looking at everything legally. What can you do? Then a new cabinet can decide as soon as possible. Depending on how long that will last, we are looking at a few points which might even be decommissioned. So it's being worked with man and power. I agree with that sense of urgency; a desperation act, you called it. A feeling of incredible haste I have, too. But you cover it from something, and then I understand that Mrs Bouchallikh says that I don't need that A27, and there are more parties in this Chamber that think so. But the point is that it does come from a large fund in which I lack 2 billion a year, not to convert, not to do beautiful new things, to make it even more beautiful, which I would also like to do and Mrs Boucallichh, but purely to do maintenance, renovation and replacement well. And then I just don't think it's responsible for getting money out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u134	Clear. Mr. Madlener and then we'll eat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u135	Finally. I have never said that, and I hope that Mrs Bouchallichh does not mean that either, she would think that maintenance is not important. She didn't hear me say that. That is just as important for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mr. Madlener. You're going to read something from the book.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u137	I want to thank you for the beautiful book. Perhaps you'd like to sign it later. I was wondering whether this included the blunders of environmental policy. I call it large-scale logging of jungle, by subsidising palm oil, or the biofuels that lead to huge forest cover. I don't see it right now, but I'm gonna look for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u138	I have had more enthusiastic revenue, but I wish Mr Madlener a great deal of reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u139	And I wish you all a good meal. At 8:45 p.m., we're gonna start with the second term. Then you can make your contribution, file motions and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u140	The next item is the second term. Mr Madlener is already ready to speak, I see. He was asked to do so at the cathedral and not in the middle of the room. I'll even turn on the mic for him. He says he'd rather not. Okay. I call Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got six motions, so I'll read to you soon. That's all the time I have. Sorry. There must be some good ones, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the motion on what I started my speech with. It is about the vision of mobility. As far as that goes, I always feel like a lonely man in this room. I think the car is so important, because it is important for many people and it is always inadequate here. The driver is always the scarf. I have therefore prepared the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Integrated Mobility Analysis states that the use of the car will increase;]] [[noting that the CBS states that the population will grow by 1.7 million inhabitants in 2040;]] [[points out the need to recognise the growth of mobility by car and to invest more in the construction and maintenance of road infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u142	The second motion concerns the N-roads. Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u143	Take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u144	Yes. This goes from my time, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u145	Yes. What time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u146	An overview of the top ten N-roads with accidents. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many N-roads are relatively unsafe;]] [[considers that, in addition to the traffic congestion problem, the MIRT should pay particular attention to road safety;]] [[calls on the government to include in the MIRT an overview of the top ten N-roads where most accidents occur,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u147	Then I have the motion on N-roads to secure traffic. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas N-roads play an important role in the accessibility of the region and in future housing;]] [[noting that many N-roads are relatively narrow and unsafe;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the provinces, to speed up the upgrading of N-roads to physically separated two-way and, where possible, to increase speed;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u148	Then I have a motion on the infrastructure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the growing role of digitalisation in infrastructure;]] [[noting that research shows that, among other things, bridges and sewers are vulnerable to hackers;]] [[noting that cybercrime is lurking;]] [[Calls on the Government to take a leading role in securing and updating road infrastructure, bridge, lock and tunnel software;]] [[calls on the government to inform the Chamber of the shortcomings of the software used and the associated security risks of our road infrastructure, locks, bridges and tunnels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u149	Then I've... [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to build up to 1 million houses;]] [[noting that many new neighbourhoods have barely built parking spaces;]] [[Whereas good infrastructure is necessary to make use of these dwellings;]] [[considers that good infrastructure contributes to the market value of new buildings and thus to the economy;]] [[calls on the government to pay particular attention to road infrastructure when investing in housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u150	They were. I'm not gonna do the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u151	You're gonna take that? You're making it very exciting. And maybe that's just the motion that everyone's going to support. Well, it's all at your own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u152	It's a motion I've tabled a lot of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u153	Your greatest hits motion. Very good. Now Mr Peter de Groot of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And also thanks to the rulers for the comprehensive answer. The VVD wants to maintain the good quality of our rail, car, bike and waterway routes, so that everyone who has to go to work, to school, to family or anywhere else, can do so safely and without too many traffic jams and delays. And I'm going back to the Department of Solutions one more time. Because there's hard work on cases, and cases are solved by Rijkswaterstaat and ProRail. I have one more question for the Minister. Is it true that Rijkswaterstaat and ProRail will have sufficient knowledge and capacity in the coming years, for the next five or ten years, when you look at the challenges ahead? What's that look like? In addition, delays cannot be completely prevented; they will be avoided. And it is really very good to hear that the Minister speaks more openly and transparently about the task, about these delays, and in particular about road users. Get more insight into the work, communicate more about it. The VVD also wants that, just a little more specific, and in the connection with sensitivities of the network especially. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that regular work or complete road closures are taking place on both the main road network and the underlying road network;]] [[noting that a number of restrictions have recently been forced to be communicated to road users shortly in advance;]] [[Whereas this is a major obstacle for road users and the transport sector;]] [[Whereas, in the coming years, many so-called baby boom artworks, works of art running towards the end of life, need to be maintained or renewed alongside construction projects;]] [[calls on the Government to present in the short term, through regional maps, future large-scale work for motorists, passengers, carriers and skippers;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a proposal with other public authorities on how these cards can be developed to give users and drivers a better understanding of the most sensitive existing main infrastructure with a high risk of failure;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this proposal how this information can be communicated to users and drivers so that surprises can be prevented and directed at the least inconvenience,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peter de Groot, Mr Geurts and Mr Hagen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u155	Then I have another motion on maintenance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that last September the A12 towards The Hague between Utrecht and Nieuwerburg was completely closed for nine days;]] [[noting that this closure has caused serious traffic disruption;]] [[noting that Rijkswaterstaat considered a short, continuous stop to the motorway as necessary in order to carry out relatively more work and to continue to ensure the safety of road users and road workers;]] [[Whereas, in the case of road works, choices must be made between complete or partial closures;]] [[Whereas the choice of complete or partial closure should be based on various factors such as road safety, safety of road workers, difference in costs between partial and complete closure, environmental nuisance, expectation of delays of road users, pressure on underlying road network, loss of operating activities due to closure, nearby other road works and alternative transport or routes;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how a full or partial closure is to be considered and chosen, taking into account not only the essential components, implementation costs or the safety of road workers but also the above considerations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Peter de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u156	I have two further motions in the area of rail in response to the answers given by the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the modal shift transit of freight from road to rail makes an important contribution to the ambition to reduce congestion on roads and increase sustainability ambitions;]] [[whereas rail freight transport in the Randstad is under pressure because it competes with rail passenger transport;]] [[noting that the rail freight table has expressed the ambition to increase freight transport by rail to 78 million tonnes in 2040;]] [[calls on the government to examine the social and economic added value of the so-called North branch of the Betuwe Route, to consider how it can be achieved and to inform the Chamber in Q1-2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peter de Groot, Mr Minhas, Mr Boulakjar and Mr Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u157	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the train connection from Zwolle via Enschede to Münster can shorten international travel time;]] [[Whereas international cooperation is required to finance this line;]] [[calls on the Government to consult German colleagues at the end of 2021 on the revision of the TEN-T Regulation and to consider whether this link can be taken into account in the broad priority weighing of international rail links,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Peter de Groot and Minhas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u158	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an enormous amount of asbestos dust is released into the air in the case of renovations of buildings with damaged asbestos fibres;]] [[Whereas it endangers human health;]] [[Whereas the European Commission has adopted an ambitious report calling for a strengthened European approach to asbestos removal;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of asbestos sites by region, following which region and sanatorium will implement a clean-up plan as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a financing plan with regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Bouchallichh and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u159	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 1998 the Covenant Institute of Asbestos Victims was signed in which parties stated that it was necessary to reduce the legal suffering of asbestos victims;]] [[noting that this need is still the same because the latency of asbestos diseases is between 30 and 50 years old and therefore the likelihood of limitation is high;]] [[Whereas the Institute of Asbestos Victims (IAS) sent a letter to the Cabinet to discuss with the IAS Supervisory Board what it considers necessary;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the Institute of Asbestos Victims this year and to inform the Chamber of the outcome of this discussion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Bouchallichh, Mr De Hoop and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u160	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u161	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Alkaya, also from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for answering our questions. I don't have any more questions, but I do have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make more money available for the maintenance of infrastructure and to cover this with burdens on large companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u163	It's been so much. It is a heart cry from the cabinet to the Chamber, not only to the forming parties but also to us. The biggest party left it, so I thought I'd just give this gift to the cabinet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that accessibility in the region deserves more investment;]] [[asks the government to refrain from broadening the A27 at Utrecht/Amelisweerd and to spend that money on accessibility in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u164	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents and employees of Schiphol Airport are exposed to harmful concentrations of ultra-fine dust;]] [[Considers that airports are primarily responsible for a safe workplace and co-responsible for a safe and healthy living environment;]] [[considers that the ambition of taxing sustainable by 2030 is unnecessary;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to accelerate sustainable taxiing as much as possible so that it is achieved before 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have drawn attention to environmental crime, including the importance of data sharing, the importance of understanding the textile industry and deception of consumers by fashion chains. To that end, I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas data quality in information systems (such as Inspectionview) on environmental crime is inadequate, both in terms of monitoring by inspections such as the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT) and criminal enforcement by police and justice;]] [[Whereas correct information is necessary to effectively monitor and ensure connection to the criminal justice chain, as confirmed by several reports in 2021;]] [[Whereas dozens of teams within the Public Prosecutor's Office, police, justice and enforcement services are involved in environmental crime but are not centrally controlled;]] [[Whereas current improvements in information provision focus mainly on the ILT and environmental services rather than on the sharing of information between the different authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a privacy-based shared information system that will enable all administrative and criminal services involved in the detection and enforcement of environmental crime to use, in order to increase the enforcement of environmental law and the effectiveness and effectiveness of VTH tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hagen and Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u166	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a mass balance of the discarded textiles collected in the Netherlands and the route and results of processing help to understand the textile chain and the steps taken;]] [[Whereas the Policy Programme for Circular Textiles 2020-2025 sets intermediate targets for 2025, 2030 and 2035 to reach a full circular economy by 2050;]] [[Whereas it is recommended to increase the understanding of the environmental impact of reuse in relation to recycling;]] [[calls on the Government, at the same time as introducing the extended producer responsibility, to set up a two-yearly mass balance of textiles with zero measurement of the year starting with the UPD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hagen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u167	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the consumer should be able to rely on actual claims so that a fair choice can be made in the purchase of a (clothing) product;]] [[Whereas European policy, as reflected in the Textiles Regulation and in horizontal legislation, currently does not sufficiently protect consumers from inaccurate and/or misleading information on or on textiles;]] [[Whereas misleading claims undermine the transition to a circular textile chain;]] [[noting that a commercial practice is misleading if information is provided which is factually incorrect or which misleads or is likely to mislead the average consumer, whether or not by the general presentation of the information;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to actively address misleading information on textiles and clothing products through the tightening of national and European product rules (e.g. through the European legislative initiative on sustainable products and circular economic action plan),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hagen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, in my contribution, I mentioned, among other things, the night trains. The Secretary of State did not go into this very comprehensively. We will be discussing it in December, but I am about to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Amsterdam-Vienna night train has returned, the night train to Prague started last month and the night train to Zurich starts in December;]] [[Whereas the KiM's investigation into the potential of the international night train identified other destinations as likely to operate night trains from the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the market for night trains is growing and the first night trains have been fully booked weeks before departure, but it is still difficult for carriers to access the infrastructure and therefore run into risks;]] [[calls on the Government to further identify and identify the risks for the entry of (new) night-train operators and to identify what is necessary to remove thresholds and to explore how more equal treatment with domestic transport in the case of requests for capacity and access to the set-up and service facilities can help,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boulakjar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u169	The second motion is about the OV-Klimaticket. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas various instruments are being used to promote sustainable mobility abroad to enable travellers to use public transport (e.g. the Klimaticket in Austria, the European Interrail ticket for young people and free public transport in Luxembourg);]] [[Whereas such measures should target more people in public transport who would otherwise be travelling by car, and should not lead to a modal shift of pedestrians and cyclists to public transport;]] [[calls on the government to analyse which instruments can be used to further expand the modality shift where there are still possibilities and capacity for Dutch public transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boulakjar and Mr De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u171	Thank you. The next speaker will be Mr De Hoop himself. He's still with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to the amendment we have tabled, there are three motions, beginning with the avoidance and spread. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas avoiding and spreading traffic can make a major contribution to the prevention of congestion;]] [[Considers that the government can only use other employers and educational institutions crediblely if it sets a good example, for example by encouraging government officials not to meet physically at certain times of the working day;]] [[calls on the government to take a significant step towards preventing state officials commuting during peak hours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr De Hoop, Mr Bouchallichh, Mr Alkaya, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u173	The second motion concerns transport poverty. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas accessibility of key services is a prerequisite for full participation in society;]] [[Whereas preliminary results of the ongoing PBL/CBS study on transport poverty give cause for concern and urgency;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and share policy options to address transport poverty with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Hoop, Mr Bouchallichh and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u174	A third motion, for the north of the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a Deltaplan North Netherlands to combine housing with new railway lines;]] [[noting that there is broad support in the Chamber for a Lelyline, including for the forming parties;]] [[calls on the Government to make the necessary preparations so that a route decision on the Lelyline can be implemented as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u175	Very good. A question from Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u176	The motion on transport poverty, of course, appeals to me very much. Mobility is a first need for people's lives; I fully agree with Mr De Hoop. But I care about the driver. Mr De Hoop seems to speak only about people who are no longer able to pay for the train, but most Dutch people are no longer able to pay for the car, because of the high petrol prices and the high tax burden. Does Mr De Hoop specifically mean that we are talking about transport poverty among everyone, including motorists?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u177	In the first instance, this point is really aimed at public transport. But I also recognise that accessibility is not just about public transport. That's also about the road. So the Labour Party also believes that, of course, there is still a need to invest in infrastructure in the field of roads, especially in the combination with housing. So I think we as Labour Party are not far from the PVV on that line at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u178	Very good. That was your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u179	I see another interruption by Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u180	More enthusiasm. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u181	Before we catch the train to Limburg... I have another question about the Lelyline. In my view, the Chamber has made a very broad statement that this plan should be examined as part of the Delta Plan for the North of the Netherlands. This means the railway line, large-scale housing and employment. The cabinet is working on that overall plan. Then I think it's a little silly that we're gonna take the Lelylaan out of there. We need to hang out a little constructively. It's a big project that needs to be looked at seriously. It's about billions, so you can't just take a motion in between coats, I'll say it in my own words, Mr President, if you'll allow it and pretend it's a small line. That is what I wanted to say before we take the train to Limburg again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u182	I'd like to respond to that. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Amhaouch on his commitment to the Delta Plan for Northern Netherlands. That originated from a motion from the CDA. I appreciate that very much. With this motion, I will proceed with the following. The formation takes a very long time. Last week we also saw the call from North Holland: boys, take steps now; hurry up now. Everyone's for that. It also has broad support in the Chamber. So I just want us to be able to take steps as soon as possible when the decision is taken. This can be done by preparing the route decision. By working that out, the project can also be picked up as soon as possible. At the same time, I hope that Mr Amhaouch, with the VVD, D66 and the Christian Union at the formation table, will make sure that Lelyline actually gets there. Then we can realize it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u183	Fine. Very good. Thank you. Mr Geurts from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u184	Mr. Chairman. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people from countries outside Europe can only exchange their foreign driving licences for a Dutch driving licence if the Netherlands has concluded a contract with the country of origin after careful assessment of the foreign driving licence system by the RDW;]] [[Whereas, in the interests of road safety, an inexplicable exception applies to knowledge workers, including their resident family members, from countries with which the Netherlands has not concluded an agreement;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is the only country in Europe that knows this exception and Dutch driving instructors have been reporting for a long time that they see in practice that a large proportion of these knowledge workers cannot drive at all;]] [[calls on the Government to lift this derogation so that knowledge workers from countries outside Europe with which the Netherlands has not concluded an agreement simply have to follow the regular procedure to obtain a Dutch driving licence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u185	I understand why Mr Geurts asked the question yesterday how the VVD looks at it. The VVD considers road safety a top priority. That's what I reported yesterday. You just had a little chat with the Minister about how many accidents this caused. In fact, that is not at all understandable, whereas you are now saying with this motion: strike through. I'd like to reach out to you and make a counter-proposal. How would you like us to take a skill test with the migrant workers when they come here? If they win, they'll get a driver's license. If they do not succeed, they will have to get a driver's license here, if they want to drive on the Dutch road. How do you view this proposal from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u186	Some nuance: they are not migrant workers, but they are knowledge workers. They can get a driving licence in countries outside Europe for a number of rupees, I have only taken India as an example, and exchange it here in the Netherlands without ever having a steering wheel in their hands. Then you can actually assume... For example, the broadcast of EenVandaag also shows this. EenVandaag made a broadcast on this subject with the driving school holders, where some knowledge workers thought they could take a refresher course to get on the road here in the Netherlands. Look at those voices... that broadcast, I'd say. Apparently, that's a tough word on Thursday night. I think you will be absolutely convinced to support the CDA Group's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u187	Just a little follow-up question. Of course, it's about knowledge workers. I'm sorry about that. But the VVD believes it is important that there is real evidence on the table that there are traffic-unsafe situations. You'll get over that very easily. You say: take a look at the television and you can feel with your lower abdomen that it is. But we're making decisions here in this Chamber based on facts. That's actually what the VVD wants on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u188	In what you call a "dispute" and what I call an interruption to the Minister, I have also indicated that there is no record in the Dutch data files of whether you have a Dutch driving licence with the characteristics of those knowledge workers. That's not registered in an accident. You can let go of all data analyses and that will never come up. Well, I guess that's what it's gonna turn out to be. Anyway, I wonder if the VVD Group really takes road safety seriously. But that's what we're going through. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Research Council for Security indicated in 2019 that safety was subordinated to the desire for innovation in road traffic, partly due to pressure from the Dutch Parliament;]] [[Whereas SWOV indicates that little is known about the safety of light electric vehicles;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has the ambition to significantly reduce the number of road accidents;]] [[calls on the Government to allow light electric vehicles in category 1b, such as e-steps, only on public roads if independent experts indicate that it is absolutely clear that road safety can be adequately secured and vehicle safety can be guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u189	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. At least, for me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since 2019 the House of Representatives has advocated, through several motions, a rapid introduction of the helmet duty for moustache cyclists in relation to road safety, but is now being advocated by the Minister;]] [[calls on the Government not to postpone the duty of helmets for moustaches and to allow them to enter 1 July 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Hagen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u190	I have one practical question. I know the CDA as a party that is also concerned about whether the entrepreneurs in the country are doing well. This helmet duty on 1 July simply creates a different question about moustache bikes, moustache scooters and so on. As Mr Geurts may know, the purchase has already taken place for the next season. This is a good way to put these entrepreneurs at risk in terms of having sufficient products in stock. How does the CDA look at the shortages in the delivery of products to these entrepreneurs with the short-term that is now being proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u191	That's a good question in itself. The Minister also used a number of words about this in the written reply. The CDA Group, like the D66 Group, is not yet convinced that this is going to be a real problem, especially since the Minister also indicates that you can use several types of helmets. We are going to talk about this at another time, because that has not yet been established. But there are real possibilities and I think it should be exploited first. We must do that before we postpone again, because the need for road safety and the call from the Netherlands to do so are very great. Mr. Chairman. Let's just get back to inland waterway transport. I saw in the media that a representative of interests, the General Schippers Association for the Service Report, General and Association are double e! The ASV considers that it was a pity that inland waterway transport had only been mentioned once. Then I thought, well, count your blessings in this house. If you're not mentioned, that usually means it doesn't cost you money. If you're mentioned, it usually costs you money. But on behalf of the CDA, I would like to say to the inland waterway vessels and inland waterway vessels that we are proud of Dutch inland waterway transport and that we believe that it makes an essential contribution to the Dutch economy. Mr President, I would like to conclude with the following sentences. This is a tradition that I have imposed on myself in budgets since I was in politics. The CDA has confidence in people, trust in society and thus trust in the future. Moreover, as a CDA, we do our work in the conviction that God's creation has been given to us to manage well and better leave it for our children and grandchildren. I wish us, as Chamber, the government and the officials, above all, God's blessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u192	Good. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u193	Mr. Chairman. I will continue where my colleague had gone, by God's creation. Then we'll have to take action, too. I am still waiting for the Minister's answer on sustainable fuels. I don't know if that's possible today, but if not, I'd like to get a letter on this, so that it gets a little more depth. Because aviation must be sustainable! Without sustainability, no aviation. Two. The base must be in order. We talked today but also yesterday about the problems at ProRail. The people sitting there, they're doing a hell of a job. They do their best, but traffic controllers belong to the base of our main rail network. It concerns us, and it needs to be solved in a structural manner. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in recent years, rail traffic on major routes on the main rail network had to be shut down due to a shortage of personnel in ProRail's traffic management;]] [[Whereas it is very important that rail passengers are minimized by the structural problems of staff shortages;]] [[Whereas it is important that it is rapidly made clear how existing staff can be more preserved;]] [[Calls on the Government, in cooperation with ProRail and NS, to ensure that rail passengers are as low as possible in terms of the staff shortage of ProRail as possible by considering how to prevent train failure as much as possible, and to inform the Chamber for the Committee's debate Track of options for this;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber as soon as possible an independent investigation into the structural problem of the staff shortage at ProRail,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Boulakjar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u194	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point. We talked about it yesterday and at some point the little debate we had about good or bad bastards went with a wink, of course. But at the end of the day it is about social security in public transport, something that we all think is important. It was said yesterday, but the graffiti already costs the NS EUR 10 million a year, and that is independent of the restriction on the use of the train. But lick-on-piece policy for the people who cross the line on the train must be improved, because the figures do not show any improvement. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of incidents of aggression towards OO personnel has increased again in the last year;]] [[Whereas employees have a legal right to a safe working environment;]] [[whereas a social security agreement was concluded in 2015;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether and how personal data of passengers who behave badly in public transport can be shared more easily between public transport companies and to inform the Chamber of how the Government intends to promote this;]] [[invites the Government, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Security, to carefully, quickly and tailor-made review transporters, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police, and to send the results of this evaluation to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Minhas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers. I have five motions and will not make a long, beautiful introduction, but just read them out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the nitrogen crisis makes it difficult to realise projects around motorways and makes it legally challenging, in particular for projects ViA15, A28/A1 Node point Hoevelaken, A4 Haaglanden-N14, A67/A73 Node point Zaarderheiken, A6 Almere, Oostvaarders-Lelystad, N35 Nijverdal-Wierden and N50 Kampen-Kampen Zuid;]] [[noting that the PBL Homework Report and the impact on living, working and mobility show that we are increasingly working at home and therefore less high-speed road load and that planned investments in motorways are no longer required;]] [[noting that there is a broad parliamentary majority in favour of applying the broad concept of prosperity to infrastructure projects;]] [[Considers that the resources currently earmarked for the expansion of motorways could be used much better for maintenance, even higher-quality public transport, solving transport poverty, accessibility of the region and cycling infrastructure;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the implementation of the above-mentioned MIRT projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bouchallichh, Mr Alkaya, Mr Van Raan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u196	I would rather ask that question to Mr Alkaya! He told me in my first term that the SP is so well in favour of the motorist, and now he is going to support this motion! My question is: here it is said that the problem of congestion does not actually exist anymore. I drove here tonight in rush hour. I have stood still for about half an hour or drove slowly around Rotterdam and I can tell you that this happens very often. The number of files is actually just back at the level before the corona crisis. I would like to ask the GroenLinks spokesperson what stone she was under or whether she is prepared to look into the fate of the motorist today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u197	I would like to make proposals here in this Chamber, not on the basis of Mr Madlener's personal experience on the road, but on the basis of research and policy. As I have just said, the PBL has indicated that working at home reduces the burden on roads. We believe that this is an opportunity to ensure broad prosperity and to reduce the burden on that road. Then perhaps Mr Madlener will be in the traffic jams less often too. As far as I am concerned, there is no contradiction whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u198	Then I recommend the spokeswoman of GroenLinks to look into the reports on traffic congestion, because it has increased enormously. I understand that you don't often do that, because you probably live at a station and come by train or I know how. But I would say: why don't you get in that car or ask someone around you who knows you and owns a car?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u199	I refuse to take this kind of personal accusation in this Chamber and leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u200	In the MIRT meeting in June, I already asked the question I am about to ask, but there was no clear answer. So I'm going to ask that question again. In all the studies, whether it is the integrated mobility analysis, the population growth, how we are currently living our lives in the Netherlands, you say that working at home, 2% to 8%, is going to make sure that we no longer need all these widening. But the same research also states that we must finish the projects that have already been planned and that we will still have congestion in the future. How are you going to explain this to all those drivers and truck drivers who are stuck every day? They don't fit in the O.V. At the moment, 400,000 people take the train every day, when it's full. You're just saying, add 200,000 or 300,000. Where do you want to put these people? That's just unrealistic. So let me ask you one more question: how do you want to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u201	I am once again being put in the mouth of words that I have not spoken. I didn't say "just add 200,000 or 300,000." I advocated a system change yesterday, and indeed I have done so before in committee debates. Yeah, we have a chance because people work more at home. We are not going to force anyone to do that, but we see that a small difference in the load on motorways leads to significantly fewer highways. The problem isn't completely gone. That is why we also want to invest in public transport, in order to make alternatives as possible and thereby to ensure that they are distributed. One does not exclude the other, and I would very much like to get out of that chicken and egg story, as I indicated yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u202	A brief addition, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman. I would ask Mrs Bouchallichh the following question. The VVD also says: it's actually en-and-and-and; we need to invest in it. But that homework you're talking about is based on research; that's what I'm doing in this question, too, is already in the Integrated Mobility Analysis. So this only increases the problem. Do you see that? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u203	I have just indicated that it is part of the solution. It's mostly about the peak load. If there are fewer cars on the highway, it already makes a lot of difference to the traffic jams. On the basis of research, for example, but also better investment in infrastructure and RV, we think we can create a puzzle that will ultimately help everyone. So it's not either-or-or, but it's
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u204	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u205	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, should Lelystad Airport not be opened, it is fair that the region should be compensated in a certain way, preferably by making the region more accessible in an alternative way;]] [[calls on the Government to develop possible forms of compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the broad concept of prosperity in its development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u206	It is indeed a controversial issue, but we do not want to wait until we can finally talk about it before we think about alternatives, so that is why the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, since the introduction of deposit money on small bottles, there have been increasing signs that an increasing number of drink manufacturers are switching to beverage packaging which is formally outside the deposit money system, such as beverage cartons or aluminium bottles;]] [[Whereas a shift effect is undesirable in the fight against litter;]] [[calls on the Government to identify, before the end of the year, whether there is indeed circumvention behaviour and, if so, to address and take action against the producers concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bouchallichh, Mr De Hoop, Mr Hagen, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u207	I actually have a question about the previous motion, about Lelystad. I find that very interesting. I would like to know whether there are any ideas from GroenLinks as to how to actually shape that better accessibility of the region. Is Mrs Bouchallichh thinking of strengthening the train service between Zwolle and Utrecht, for example, with intercity stations in Harderwijk, or is the widening of the A28, which is very much needed in the region, also an option? What exactly are we talking about, is my question, also to give some direction to the cabinet and certainly to us, when we look at this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u208	This motion has been co-involved by conversations with people from the specific area. I do not have a very specific idea in that, hence also a fairly open motion. I would like to know what might be good for accessibility. That's how we'll be able to have the next conversation. Then the fourth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the introduction of deposit money on small plastic bottles and cans is an important step towards combating litter and achieving the 90% separate collection target;]] [[noting that supermarkets do not want to take cans themselves and at the moment even argue that some 3,600 to 6,000 additional drop-ins are placed in public space;]] [[Whereas this is an experimental and expensive process, will lead to confusion and decline in consumer support and it is highly unlikely that such an alternative system for the deadline of 31 December 2022 will be implemented;]] [[noting that other large retailers of small plastic bottles, such as cinema chains, are currently levying deposit money but refuse to take these deposit bottles and return the deposit money;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a compulsory withdrawal for retail outlets for deposit money on plastic bottles and cans and to make a possible exception for smaller outlets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bouchallichh, Mr De Hoop, Mr Van Esch and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u209	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a payment of EUR 213 million to the European Union from general funds is made for unrecycled plastic waste;]] [[Whereas not the citizen but the polluter should pay for these costs by introducing a tax on virgin plastic, which also leads to increased use of recycled materials and structural investment in recycling;]] [[noting that CE Delft has found that a polymer load is the easiest way of shaping a virgin plastic load;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to work together with the Secretary of State for Finance to develop a polymer tax, to take into account possible road leakage effects and to introduce them as from 1 January 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bouchallichh and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u210	Finally, some final words, given the time. In this Chamber, we have previously talked about system change and its importance in tackling the climate crisis, for people's health and also to properly organise mobility. As I said, accessibility is extremely important. I think it is very important, together with all of us, to look at how we can make these choices integral here and constantly put the common interest first. I look forward to continuing to do so this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u211	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u212	No, no question. I have just forgotten to say that Mrs Bouchallichh also supports my motion on ultra-fine dust, so I should like to correct that, with apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u213	That is for ever. I call Mrs Van Esch from the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u214	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Secretary of State will inform the Chamber in the first quarter of 2022 on the monitoring and modelling of ultra-fine dust concentrations;]] [[Whereas the Health Council states that, in view of the increasing evidence that ultraphine may harm health, it is not necessary to wait for (additional) measures to be taken;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before the end of 2022 on what concrete additional steps are being taken to reduce emissions of ultra-fine dust,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a run on firewood since gas prices have risen;]] [[noting that information on wood-burning is currently mainly made up of wood-burning tips;]] [[Whereas wood-burning wood is not sustainable and is accompanied by air pollution and health damage;]] [[calls on the government to focus on disenfranchisement rather than heating tips in the information on wood fires,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u215	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet indicated in its Aeronautical Note that there could no longer be any question of unshielded growth;]] [[noting that ICAO has explicitly in its articles of association since 1944 unbiased aviation growth and reviews all policies in line with this objective;]] [[calls on the Government to propose to the forthcoming ICAO Triennial to remove the unbiased growth from its articles of association and actively seek assistance from other countries in its preparation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite the climate, biodiversity, nitrogen and health crises, this cabinet intends to spend billions on new (highways) roads in the coming years;]] [[calls on the government not to build new or wider motorways and, where possible, to invest the money released so that public transport in the urban environment becomes more attractive than the car,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the calculation methodology for the nitrogen deposition for aviation is clearly established;]] [[that the source characteristics are based on the values used by the RIVM;]] [[that RIVM has applied a heat content of 0 MW in the calculations over all years;]] [[However, the updated PAS reports for Lelystad Airport of 2018 and 2019 suddenly include 43 MW, leaving the maximum deposition increase below 1 mol/ha/year and less nitrogen space to be charged;]] [[the appearance of double nitrogen accounting;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out forensic audit of all nitrogen deposition calculations for the period 2014 to 2020 around Lelystad Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u216	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u217	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u218	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. It was good tonight, so as far as I am concerned, you can come back next year, but with 1.5 or 2 billion in the budget, please. I have one motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas repair and extension of the service life of appliances is an important part of a circular economy;]] [[Whereas it should be easier for consumers to make a conscious choice for a product to be repaired;]] [[Whereas France was the first country in Europe to introduce a repair score for products such as laptops and smartphones on 1 January 2021;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to its commitment in the EU to improving product repairability, to take national measures to extend the lifetime of appliances and improve repairability, including the introduction of a French repair score, so that consumers are better informed about the repairability of (electronic) products, and to submit a proposal to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u219	Mr. Chairman. The conclusion of colleague and brother Geurt's SGP-er in the CDA, I always say, and that's what he's saying himself was so beautiful. I'd like to join that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u220	No one's gonna get over that. That was motion number 38. I'd say we could do better next year. Can the rulers respond immediately? Oh, no. I thought this was just routine, but that's not how it works. I'm gonna suspend for 15 minutes, and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u221	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u222	Mr. Chairman. I think everyone's starting to come back to their place. So I suggest I start with the answer. Two questions are still open. One of these is at least Mr Amhaouch's question, which has yet to catch the train to Limburg. So I suggest we start with that. We got a call from one of the companies in Delfzijl. We haven't been able to get hold of the other two. So I owe you one. But it is true that the planning was 2022; by now it is 2024. Of course, this is a business, a commercial project, so we have no influence on it ourselves. But we have specifically asked whether there are obstacles in which we, as a government, at least play a role. There are a number of explanations why it takes longer. I'll share it with you. The first explanation is that the organisation indicates that it has had to carry out or has carried out detailed financial risk analyses, probably for funding purposes. It took a lot of time. The second explanation was the covid situation. It was difficult, for example, to communicate with international partners the design of the factory and the production processes. That has therefore also led to delays. The third statement is that this should be the first dedicated SAF plant. New techniques must therefore also be used. This also requires more time for development. To the extent that we have been able to verify this: at the moment, therefore, do not go to the government permits or whatever. Let me put it this way: there is no sign that government intervention has caused delays. For the other two companies, I'll check it out, too. But, of course, it's a private matter. So I think it would be good if we could come back to that separately in a collection letter or something in the field of aviation. Then we can explicitly indicate whether this is also the image of the other two or whether other things have emerged. That was the first question. Then I have Mr De Groot's question. He asked me about the capacity of ProRail and RWS. For both organisations, the current capacity is and will be insufficient, also given the capacity and knowledge needed. That means that something must be done. That is why the Secretary of State and I wrote in our letter that long lines are important. So you have to be able to offer perspective to both organisations so that they can take on the right people, keep them and plan them, not only for their own organisation, but also for the market itself. Why, for example, is that so relevant to Rijkswaterstaat? It would be very nice if we could overtake the delayed maintenance there in the coming period, so that you can also hold on to sufficient capacity. It is also quicker to put it on the market. It would be nice if you could then prepare yourself for the great replacement and renovation announcement that will take place from 2026. You can now start the preparations for that. Furthermore, of course, you have the ordinary construction projects, both those on the main roads and, for example, construction projects on the road network. You should be able to provide stability in that. You should be able to say: this is what we're going to do. You have to be able to do this for a long time. The same goes for ProRail, although the organisation is a bit different. You should be able to offer long-term stability and the organisations should be able to conclude contracts over more years. That would help both Rijkswaterstaat and ProRail to hold on to the right people, but also to attract the right people from the market. And towards the market you can achieve innovation and standardisation in this way. You were able to read this in our letter. The PwC/Rebel report also states that you should actually take into account eight-year deadlines. Then you can put it away and you can also keep your people. Those were the answers to the two questions that were asked. I should now like to turn to the motions and amendments. I shall begin with the one amendment I shall go along with. In my view, the Secretary of State has already dealt with all the other amendments in his first term. I believe that Mr Omtzigt's amendment has been submitted to all the budgets. You will therefore not be surprised that the Minister responsible responds to all the budgets in the same way. We will discourage these amendments, in line with what has already been shared. For example, with covid, but also with everything that is going on about openness and transparency, it is important that you communicate well with your residents and with your companies, to give insight into this. This simply requires communication capacity, in a broad sense. Then I would like to proceed with the assessment of the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Madlener. That's a speech-exmotion, so it's addressed to your room. The motion in part No. 18 asks, in the context of road safety, to ensure that the top ten of N roads are included in the MIRT overview. I'll do that, so I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. As you have seen, we have also made an integral mobility analysis for the first time. Also in view of the attention of your Chamber on road safety, I think this could be a good addition. Then the motion to part No. 19, also on the N-roads. I sent you a letter earlier this week indicating how we want to deal with road safety on the N-roads, also following a motion from your Chamber. Mr Madlener has the solution right away, namely that it must be this way everywhere. That's why I don't recommend the motion. I indicated in the letter that it is important that we make the N roads safe and that we have made additional money available for this, but that we want to be able to assess this situation on a case-by-case basis and that we want to deliver tailor-made solutions. You have been able to read in the letter which N-roads would in any case be eligible, given the figures. But I would advise against this motion because Mr Madlener says that it must be done in this way on all roads. Then the motion to part No. 20, also by Mr Madlener, on cyber. I am going to ask Mr Madlener for an interpretation of the motion. I can take on board the leading role of Infrastructure and Water State in relation to our own works of art, as it is so beautifully called. That's where I have the responsibility. May I read the motion like this, the first request? I see Mr Madlener nodding. I cannot do it for all my colleagues, for the whole government. With regard to the second request, I cannot do that in public. I am willing to include the Chamber in the risks involved in cyber when it comes to our works of art, but I would like to do so confidentially through a briefing. If Mr Madlener meant it, I could give the motion judgment Chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u223	I am, of course, in favour of public access in general, but if there are risks, I would like to agree with that. The motion will then be judged Chamber, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u224	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u225	Then I'll just put her to the vote and the Minister can interpret it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u226	That has already been done; thank you to the Chamber for that. Of course, anything that's public, we'll do publicly. But there are a number of things that we will have to inform you in a different way. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 21 also belongs to Mr Madlener. Here again a question in response to his request to us. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that, when developing a new residential area, mobility and the call for housing are linked together, then I see the motion as supporting policy. If Mr Madlener says 'everywhere, in every residential area only parking places' I charge deliberately 'I have to give a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u227	It is indeed... If the policy is to ensure proper access to these residential areas, then the Minister can interpret the motion in this way. I'm just scared... I see the opposite. I see all kinds of aldermen and delegates proudly saying that there are no more car facilities or minimum facilities, so that people are not tempted to buy a car, while we have just heard the Secretary of State say 'those people must also be able to charge their car at the door'. If the policy is so, let me give the Minister the benefit of the doubt that people who want to own a car can continue to do so in those new residential areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u228	As you know, we are not dealing with the parking standards that municipalities apply. But if your question is to ensure that mobility is taken into account in the new residential areas, in a broad sense too, then I will give the motion judgment Chamber. I see Mr Madlener squeezing yes. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 22 by Mr De Groot, Mr Geurts and Mrs Hagen; I will not make the mistake of putting a preposition on it. It asks us to look with the region at how we can improve communication. That's a fair call. I have also said something about the battle we want to make. So I see it as support. With that, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. I will also take this into account in the discussions we have with the drivers at the end of November to see how we can handle this. So judge Room. Then the motion to part No. 23, also by Mr De Groot. The motion asks for the considerations to be made clear. We recently did that at the A12, where the road was completely closed. There is a specific consideration, with several things being weighed up. I'll make that known, too. So judge Room. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 28. If it's all right, the Secretary of State will give an opinion on the motions in between. I see the Secretary of State nodding. Mr Alkaya called in his motion for a resolution for an increase in the burden on large companies in order to maintain infrastructure. As you know, it is very important and necessary to achieve conservation, but not with this coverage. Both the Secretary of State and myself have said so. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 29. The same applies to cover. Of course, I agree with you that the accessibility in the region, but also outside it, must also be done in urban and non-urban areas. It's gonna take extra money. You have seen in our conservation letter that the removal of a single project is not going to solve the problem. It's gonna take more than that. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 30, by Mr Alkaya and Mrs Bouchallichh on ultra-fine dust. If I can express the intention of the motion in such a way as to ensure that it is done within the safety framework and that safety remains at the forefront, so that both the airlines and the airline as well as Schiphol have the time to do so. You may see it as a result obligation, but I'm actually reading the motion as an effort obligation, so I'll give her judgment Chamber. It must therefore be done within the framework conditions. I would like to have that explicitly included in my assessment. Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). So I'm going to go from the motion to part No. 30 to the motion in part No. 36. Whatever we can do about working at home, we'd also like to do. We have also exchanged this with each other in the debate. But I would ask Mr De Hoop to hold this motion. Firstly, because some of the state officials are also the responsibility of my colleague from BZK, Minister Ollongren. There's an investigation at BZK right now. I would like to include this motion in that, but I do not wish to speak for her. It must also be able to assess this, because BZK is also responsible for the conditions of employment of the Empire and will have to take this with it. There is now a draft proposal for a new collective agreement. Good examples are given by the Empire. Now, however, I would like to ask you to hold the motion and to await the BZK's investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u229	I would like to know at what time we can expect that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u230	I'll check it out for you. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u231	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u232	I don't know a date, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u233	But you're gonna find out. When will we know?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u234	If the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u235	...sent his app.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u236	Exactly. I can't do that right now, that's why. So I'm gonna check that out. I suggest I get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u237	But depending on that, the motion is being held or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u238	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u239	Very good. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u240	Then the motion to part No. 39 by Mr Geurts on the driving licences of knowledge migrants. I agree with Mr Geurts that road safety must be at the forefront and that we must ensure that we take all the measures we can take. As far as I am concerned, we are doing this on the basis of investigations and on the basis of facts. We do that very often with road safety. SWOV advises us in that too. So I would really ask Mr Geurts to take the motion in relation to the investigation that is being carried out. If Mr. Geurts doesn't hold the motion, I'll advise her. I do not have the information at the moment to say that we need to do it this way directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u241	Mr Geurts shakes a rather explicit no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u242	The judgment on the motion in part No. 39 is "dissuade." Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 40. Maybe we can find each other there. Mr Geurts rightly referred to the OVV report, which discussed the way in which the process was carried out and the admission was made. Following the OVV report, we agreed on a new process, in which not only the RDW plays a role, but also SWOV. So they're also checking to see if the new vehicle can be accepted. Only in the event of a positive opinion of the RDW is a vehicle permitted. Of course, the behaviour of oneself also plays a role. But with the addition that at least RDW and SWOV can just pass their judgment I'm not going to indicate how I can give the motion judgment Chamber. You will, of course, receive the reports on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u243	A short question, one question, from Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u244	In my first term, I had also called attention to the e-steps. Everyone is aware that there are already 200,000 of them driving around the Netherlands. You can buy them at any Lidl. It is not for consumers to see whether anything is allowed or not. There's a lot of them already. This is partly about children's toys, partly about steps for adults This seems to me to be an unworkable situation. It is not easy for the consumer. I ask the Secretary of State how consumers will deal with this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u245	You're asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u246	E-steps are not allowed on public roads. One of your children you spoke of had such an e-step. It's not allowed on the road, so you can't take it on the public road. Mr Geurts draws attention to the point that we have been very painfully reminded by the Stint accident that road safety really has to be a consideration when approving this type of new vehicle. I also sent the LEV framework, the framework for light electric vehicles, to the Chamber. We have a committee debate on 2 December. I think it would be good to discuss the substance of the matter with each other. You can then see if you agree with how we assessed it. But Mr Geurts makes a strong point in his plea: do not forget the recommendations made by the OVV, namely that road safety should be part of the admission and that it should take place in an independent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u247	The motion in part No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u248	At the motion in part No. 41 Mr Geurts and Mrs Hagen and I will not find each other. I'm dissuading the motion, and that's really because of its feasibility. We will probably also discuss it in the committee debate. I have indicated when the publication is. I believe that both companies and people affected should know what the new rules are and should then be able to buy a helmet, which is therefore available. That could also be a new helmet. My proposal is also to allow a new helmet in response to SWOV reports. I think there is a very clear proposal. I would really like to call on you to give people and companies affected the room to comply with the law. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 44 by Mrs Bouchallichh and a number of other people. I advise against this motion. It has just been mentioned in the debate on the interruption. Of course, there's a PBL report. I think there's a technical briefing on that, too. There is also an Integral Mobility Analysis, including the PBL data when it comes to working at home. Mrs Bouchallichh has mentioned it a few times: we need to look at system change and broad prosperity. It is precisely in the Integrated Mobility Analysis that a broad assessment is made, including in the case of climate change, even when it comes to working at home. It's all already incorporated into those analyses. There is a scenario with low economic growth and high economic growth. It also contains economic factors. It's got the housing statement in it. In that IMA you can actually take all these factors together and then we see that we need to invest in all the modalities. I advise against this motion, also because the IMA assumes that we have implemented all those projects that you mention. We therefore need to maintain and make better use of and continue to invest, including in roads. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 45, also from GroenLinks. As you know, the subject of Lelystad has been declared controversial. We will not take a decision on this. I therefore also advise against this motion. Then the Van Raan motion to part No. 51. Following his questions I also looked up 7 December 1944. I'm dissuading the motion. I understand what Mr Van Raan is asking for. I also looked up Article 44 in the Staff Regulations. Nice Dutch, if you translate it from English, I can tell you. I will, of course, also share my commitment with the Chamber before the ICAO meeting. There are two essential things that will be brought in by the Netherlands, and that I have already brought in, a few weeks ago. That is security, for example, flying over conflict zones, as an important item, and the second is reducing CO emissions. Those are really the important things I want. I think it is almost impossible to attempt to revise a treaty with more than 190 countries, where each country has the right of veto. I think it would be better to argue on the content, to include parties on the content, even when it comes to flying over conflict zones, than to focus on revising the statute. I think we'll be going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u249	Mr. Van Raan. Or Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u250	We have a common interest. It is good that the Minister gives an indication of the priorities she has set for ICAO, but there is also an approved motion from the Chamber to argue in this respect for an increase in excise duties on airline tickets or fuel. My question is whether this third priority is being taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u251	That's under the heading of reducing emissions. I think it is good, also in the context of care, that the commitment of the Netherlands is shared with the Chamber prior to it, otherwise it seems that this is the only thing. Then we can also have the conversation with each other, to point that out to Mr Stoffer, and then Mr Van Raan can probably make his point again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u252	Mr Van Raan, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u253	I understand the Minister's reasoning is as she argues, within the system there is. However, in view of the change in the system that is needed, the broad prosperity that we want to achieve and the fact that in the Netherlands the unbiased growth of aviation has been curtailed by this cabinet with an air navigation note, it is very special that the Minister is apparently not prepared to continue to curb this unbiased growth towards international treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u254	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u255	It's kind of surprising that she doesn't want to do that. Actually she says: grow but unbiased, then I'll mop up with the tap open. That's kind of special.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u256	I do not think that is entirely true of what I have just said, and Mr Van Raan knows this as well as I do. What I have said is that I will share the commitment of the Netherlands with you and that it will be in line with the Aviation Note. Only the Netherlands cannot change a statute on its own. Your summary of the Statute and Article 44 are not entirely correct either, but I do not want to do a game of parsing of Article 44 here. The use of the Netherlands is in any case in accordance with the Aviation Note, and that is also true when it comes to flying over conflict zones, for example. What I'm saying is that I will bring this with all my love, but I also want to manage expectations. Adapting such a treaty while each country has a right of veto: I can tell you that I think it is better to bet on countries to convince them of the content than to change a statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u257	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u258	The Minister is now contradicting himself. On the one hand, she says that she does not want to amend the treaty in this area or to do so, because: 190 and veto. But in the other area, namely security, it is right; we have to express that appreciation; it is good that the Minister will do so. That's what's inside of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u259	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u260	Also on those other things... To date, all we've done is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u261	Good home, Mrs. Beckerman. Greetings to Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u262	... didn't happen for a treaty change. So all our commitment to flying over conflict zones was not based on a treaty change, but on convincing other countries of the usefulness and need to cooperate in order to do something about it. When I look at what has happened in this area over the past few years, partly through the support of your Chamber, I see that very large steps have been taken within the ICAO framework. That's what I'm telling you. Changing the treaty is extremely difficult, but that does not relieve you of pleading for a change in its content. And that's what we do. We have done the same with the conflict areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u263	Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u264	I don't think I contradict myself. Mr Van Raan's motion for a resolution 52 calls on the government not to build new or wider motorways. Mr Van Raan was not at the first part of my term. In that I indicated that it is not a question of whether it is just a matter of weighing or weighing or only the bike, let us mention a few modalities, but that it is necessary and necessary. The mobility assignments are huge. So we have to take advantage of everything we have. I just indicated that you need to look at what's needed by area. For example, we see that it is strong in the urban environment, but less beyond. We both want to facilitate and maintain. For that reason, I advise against this motion. I am convinced that, in addition to investing in public transport, you should continue to invest in the widening of the road, which Mr Van Raan does not want. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 53. It's a little out of order. We didn't talk about that in the first term. I advise against this motion. As you know, your Chamber has debated this with my predecessor several times. The Commission is also aware of this. itself looked very specifically at the process and made an assessment of the assessment that was made at that time. This was shared with your room on 31 March 2020. I don't want to do that investigation again. I trust that the Commission will take note of this. her research has just done carefully and shared some things with you. I think that the most important thing now is for the LNV ministry to go through the verification process and look again at the Lelystad case, and that it will therefore come with a judgment. So I think a great deal of research has been done and a good assessment has been made of this from the Commission in particular, which has been shared with your Chamber. The main thing now is: what do we do now and what does the Ministry of LNV think about Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u265	On the previous motion: I can live with the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u266	What about this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u267	But this motion is actually asking for something different from the Minister's description here. There have been investigations. But what has come out of these investigations, and also from the questions, and what the Ministry itself has confirmed, which journalists are now on top of, is that there are contradictions in the different reports and calculations. And that is why we want to find out, because these contradictions do not go away because the EIA has been re-implemented. In fact, they only come up more. So it would be a good thing for the Minister and the Cabinet if they were to say: we do not fully agree on it internally, as we have seen the answers to the questions that have been asked about it; journalists have found that there are some differences between the different methods of calculation; citizens have found that... It would be a credit to this cabinet if it were to say: we are not satisfied with that either, and we want to get to the bottom of it. And hence this motion, because it doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u268	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u269	But that's what happened. I think there have been several investigations, all shared with your room. Data has also been made public to see what calculations have been made. There are also drafts about this shared with your Room. I would simply like to take up the Commission's assessment of all the points you mentioned in the motion and make an assessment of them. So that's already been judged. And all the calculations that you say have been discussed, have been looked at again, in different ways, and have come to a judgment on them again. What is most important now, I think, is that there is also an assessment of the current situation, because the old situation has been looked at, and we have also looked at how we can explain the differences and what different views there are. And that's all shared with your room. And I don't think that... If you say 'the Commission's report on the subject, I have a number of questions to ask', then I think you have already been able to discuss this with the Minister at the time. But I do not see any added value in having it looked at again, given all the second opinions that have also been shared with your Chamber when it comes to the input data, when it comes to all the issues that have already been shared with your Chamber several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u270	Fine. Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u271	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The m.e.r. indeed investigated a number of cases. But precisely because after that pieces have been wobbed by Nieuwsuur, after that a whole questioning process has started, it is precisely because of this that those differences have come to light. And since those differences are there and are not explained by what is in the Wob report, my call is actually that the Minister himself should not be satisfied with that either. And hence this motion. I'm only gonna repeat it once more. It won't go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u272	I still dissuade the motion, because the point is that something new is now being assessed. That's what you're gonna get judgment about. That is, I think, also what you should base yourself on when it comes to the past. When I look at the file as it stands, it has been looked at, in every way possible, and there are all these differences there too, and you can see that in all those Wob requests come back at a glance. I don't see any added value in a forensic investigation right now. Because I think it's about the content, and you also want a careful assessment to take place right now by the LNV Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u273	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u274	Can I get the speaker's chair up a little bit? Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you to Members for the second-term questions. I had one more question, from Mr De Groot, about knowledge of circular economy in local authorities, if I may summarize him briefly. This exchange of knowledge is indeed a very important point. This is what the Planning Office for the Environment says, for example. An exploration has been done by the PBL, Learning together, in 2020 and 2021: where are knowledge needs that limit progress on circular economy? Then knowledge building and sharing is really one of the ways to speed it up. At that time, particular attention was paid to the need for knowledge in the field of circulars among various regional government partners and how this could be met. In the updated UPCE, improving knowledge sharing is ensured and one of the three lines of action to be developed in the joint regional approach. In the coming period, further research will be carried out into how this exploration can be followed up. We will also build on existing knowledge platforms and structures, which is usually faster. May I suggest that I simply try to inform you in spring 2022 about where that leads? I would also like to thank Mr De Groot for his suggestion. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the motions, because that was the only question I had left as far as I could ascertain. First, the motion in part No. 24 from Mr De Groot, among others, with a question about the north branch of the Betuwe route. I have one request to make. The motion says "to inform in Q1." But there is already an investigation in progress, which is requested in the motion. Of course, this research must have its contents, because otherwise I do not really have much to say to you, I say through the President. So if I can interpret it in such a way that I do so in the MIRT letter next fall, if we have those research things, I'll take this with me. Is that workable? 'Cause I don't have anything to report. I'd appreciate it if you put "Q3" in the motion, including for the history. I see Mr De Groot nodding, so I'll give that motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 25 of Mr De Groot and Mr Minhas are talking about Zwolle-Münster via Enschede and ask to get in touch with the German colleague. I find that complicated, since the previous or actually the present German minister was not very enthusiastic. There's also a missionary cabinet here. I would ask him to hold the motion so that, if there is a new government on both sides, we can look further at how we are doing this. In all honesty, however, I give the following profit warning. We have talked about many ongoing priorities and about maintenance. So money is extremely scarce. I don't want to raise false expectations either, but I think we've settled it well in time. I would therefore ask him to hold that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u275	At the request of Mr Peter de Groot, I propose his motion (35925-XII, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u276	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 26 by Mrs Beckerman on asbestos sites in the region. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. I totally agree with her on asbestos fibres in the air. That's a big problem. That is why we have proposed a legal ban on asbestos roofs, which has not been passed in the Senate. I do not intend to create national policies on this proposal, which is much wider. Regions can work on this themselves with funding. I would therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 27, also by Mrs Beckerman, with a number of colleagues this time. He's asking to talk to the Institute of Asbestos Victims. That's what sent a letter. We haven't been able to find out that letter so quickly, I'm telling you honestly. I am recommending this, I say through Mr Alkaya. But I will ask if my ministry, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, as they often have a role in asbestos, would like to talk to them. You're asking for a meeting. I am curious as to what point one would like to discuss with us, but I am always prepared to say a word. I will ask whether this can be done in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u277	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u278	Judgment Room. In fact, I'd like to take over that motion as well. Whatever you say. Judge Room, because then the hands can still be raised. I'm totally fine with it. I recognize this. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 31, by Mr Hagen and Mr Sneller, on information sharing. It is quite profound, because it also affects wider information sharing, including with all the systems of JenV's colleagues: OM, police. I would actually like to request that this motion be retained, because I am working on that note under the Christmas tree on the VTH system, including with the involvement of that ministry. Then I can also take this with me in good coordination with JenV's colleague. My request would therefore be to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u279	I wonder if the Secretary of State recognizes that this is necessary. That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u280	Wide sharing of information, for example between the ODs is a point we have even discussed extensively. I understand the search. You also ask for the protection of privacy. That seems relevant to me. You mention, apart from the ODs, all organizations of the Ministry of Justice. So I can't really see how far this goes. I just want to take a closer look at that before we judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u281	I believe that a discussion with JenV is the first step that this motion calls for. I don't really understand why I would hold the motion, if this is just part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u282	Because you're asking me to start putting all kinds of stuff on right away. I don't know what JenV's colleagues think about that. I don't know how I feel about that either. I really need to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u283	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u284	At the request of Mrs Hagen, I propose her motion (35925-XII, No. 31). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u285	Thank you. I promise Mrs. Hagen it'll get better. Because I'm not saying I'm against it at all. I just can't really look over it, not even what I'm pulling on the JenV side. I just don't think it's proper to JenV's colleagues. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mrs Hagen's 32th report deals with the mass balance. It is true that it was done in 2012 and 2018. I think it is a good idea to do it again in 2022 or in 2022, and I have to say that I have to do it precisely. This means that the implementation of that balance sheet will take place in 2023-2024. It is then about the year 2022. Whether we then do a biennial rhythm, I just want to look at what we make out of it. I can take that into account in the Progress Report Textiles. I can see Mrs. Hagen nodding. I am happy to give the motion with this comment Chamber. Then we have the motion in part no. 33, including Mrs. Hagen's. This calls on the government to consider how national and European product regulation can prevent misleading consumers about textiles, the clothing market and sustainability claims. That is an important point. If you want to do this as a consumer, you also want to know that it is really what is promised. You want to know it's not greenwashing and it's nothing at all in the end. We are also working on this in Europe. I'm giving this motion judgment room. That brings me to the motion in part No. Mr Boulakjar, Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I support that search. The night trains are in the elevator. I don't know if you can put it that way. For example, we are also looking at the rules on capacity distribution, because there must also be room. I would like to take Mr Boulakjar's request on the path I already have. I want to look at that and also at that more equal treatment. I'll give the motion judgment room. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the motion in part No. 35, about the Klimaticket. But the motion is more precise, I say honestly. The motion asks in particular: what instruments do you have to extend this modal shift, this modal change? What possibilities are there now? For example, you have tariff differentiation. You can come up with all kinds of interesting options. Of course, I also follow very specifically how the Klimaticket is doing. So I'll also keep my finger on the wrist. I think it's an interesting question which instruments you can use for that modality shift. So I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. Then we have the motion on the transport poverty of Mr De Hoop, Mr Bouchallichh and Mr Alkaya. We've already talked about that in detail. It's the motion in part No. 37. The Planning Office for the Environment is doing research. That's delayed. Again, that lies entirely with me. Mr De Hoop is looking for policy options. I was afraid of policy options without you having the analysis, but I hope I found the solution that Mr De Hoop will also be pleased with. We have been in touch with the Planning Bureau for the Environment and asked if they are willing to include exploring policy options in that research. Then we ensure that it stays in one hand, with the analysis showing what's really going on. If Mr De Hoop thinks that is a good idea, then I will give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u286	Mr De Hoop nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u287	That's very nice, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the Planning Bureau for the Environment could respond to this so quickly. That's what I want to say. Mr. Chairman. Then the Lelyline. This is the motion in part No. 38, I say to Mr Heerema. Mr Amhaouch asked: can we just say that we are preparing the route decision for the Lelylaan? I think we've made a very careful journey. This is a very large, very important and very sensitive dossier. The connection between the north and the Randstad is important. I know how hard this lives in the north, and rightly so. We have now set that in motion with the Delta Plan for the North. Mr Amhaouch is no longer here, but he has played an important role in this. It is intended, for example, to link this to housing and the 220,000 extra homes, so that we can see if we can make it around, so that it can be made and affordable. I'd like to end that whole process. So I wouldn't find it careful to take the line out now. I would actually like to ask for the motion to be held. We're working on that delta plan. If Mr De Hoop does not wish to do so, then I must advise against the motion for a resolution for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u288	The motion will not be held and will therefore be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u289	That is Mr De Hoop's right. I hope we can maintain unity here. Of course, that's not up to me. Then the motion to part No. 42 by Mr Amhaouch, with two requests on the situation of traffic controllers and ProRail. It is very close to what I had already said I intended to do and of which I have heard your entire Chamber emphasize the importance of it. Yeah, there's got to be an investigation. I told you, there's gonna be two. I have exchanged with ProRail how important it is that they are independent investigations. They have a plan of action for the short and long term. Then it is always good to have that tested externally, when it comes to something that is so sensitive and potentially has such a big impact on the traveller. So ProRail chose this for himself. The ownership of ProRail of this investigation is important to me. They're gonna have to fix it. I will, of course, remain very close to it. At the same time, I have the confidence that ProRail is doing this expeditiously. So I'm giving this motion judgment room. It's policy support. I don't feel like dissuading anything we want to do with each other either. So judge Chamber, Chairman. Then I have the motion on item 43 by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Minhas. That motion has two separate elements. The first is: can traveler's personal data not be shared better? I would like to point out once again that even now, after one crime of violence, the judge can deny people access to the State. We'll leave that to the judge, because it's far-reaching. Public transport is really important for many people for their participation in society. I would just like to say one more time here that this is very strong. For that sharing of data, we're doing a pilot now. That is what is happening right now, to see how personal data can be shared in a responsible way. I find it very complicated to anticipate that pilot. That would be my first reaction. The second part, on lick-on-piece policy and the other approach, is really the policy area of JenV's colleague, whom I would like to discuss. On that second part I would ask you to hold the motion, but because of that first part I would say: hold the motion, otherwise I must advise her not to, because that pilot is already running. I think we need just those outcomes. I think Mr Amhaouch is already gone, so I am also looking at Mr Geurts. If the motion isn't stopped, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u290	I will consult with my colleague, Mr Amhaouch. But I won't hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u291	Thank you for being postillon d'amour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u292	I actually have a question about the previous motion, if I may. It may have to do with the time of night or with the fact that I still had to process the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u293	The motion in part No. Forty-two, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u294	It's about the motion in part No. 42. The second request concerns the need for the government to carry out an independent investigation. I can hear you talking about those deficits all night. ProRail's doing a good job. You're pushing ProRail and you're putting it there. Actually, my expectation was that you would discourage this motion. Can you explain a little further why you are now giving this motion a Chamber judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u295	I thank Mr De Groot. I should have done that myself. That's because I don't read the text like that. I read in this motion the request to send the independent investigation that ProRail has commissioned to the Chamber as well. ProRail can't do that on its own; I do. It does not say here: "calls on the government to conduct an independent investigation." That's what's coming. That's what I said: ProRail does. In fact, two institutions have been asked to do this. I'll send that investigation to you. That is how I understood the motion, namely to send what I am already doing to your Chamber. For the record, thank you for your clarification. I'm not gonna do my own research. ProRail's doing research. I see this as a call to share that investigation with your room as well. That is how I understood this point and that led to this judgment. I would like to thank Mr De Groot for clarifying this misunderstanding. I am also looking at Mr Minhas with an oblique eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u296	Then, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u297	There's another ghost looking over my shoulder. In the motion in part No. 42 is the NS, that is to say the Dutch Railways, but that is where "all carriers" is meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u298	If you say it at the microphone, I think you can change the text, but I haven't been on that side of the room for a few months. This seems to me to be a justified addition. Then the motion to part No. 46 by Mrs Bouchallichh, Mrs Hagen, Mr De Hoop, Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Van Esch on deposit money, and in particular on beverage cartons for water. I'm gonna talk to the industry myself. I make appointments, but when there's avoidance, I say that's not how we're married. So I see it as a support to find out very well in that conversation what is going on and also to act if there is circumvention. So I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. That doesn't apply to motion 47. This motion asks me to implement for myself what this obligation to take up should look like. We simply said: '90% of those cans have to go back. It is up to your industry to take care of that." I'm not gonna make it so easy for them to take over theirs. That ball's with them, so I'm gonna dissuade the motion. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the motion in part No. 48.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u299	There is another question from Mrs Bouchallichh. Short and pointy, because we want to get to the exit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u300	I already got that impression, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u301	I'll try to keep it short. You just said, "I'm not gonna make it easy on them." Can you tell me what you're gonna do? Can we maybe get an idea of the plans that are there? Can we keep some finger on the wrist together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u302	I find it complicated that whenever I say something about how I want it, it's up to me at the time. I don't want to do that in any way. 90% have to go back, and you take care of it; that's a little unkindly said. If that 90% isn't achieved, we're gonna have enforcement. The industry is still working, I think, on the shape. As you said, if that becomes innovative, it will not be possible on 31 December. Well, it should work on December 31st, because that's what the law says. I don't know what shape they choose. I assume that they will not be too long-term in telling you, including you, how they do it. But I really don't want to be the person who sits in there and discuss it with you. They just have to do the 90%. So I'm gonna dissuade her. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 48 is about the Plastic Tax. I could say two things about that. The first is that I'm not a missionary about that. But it is also a real request to the Secretary of State for Finance. Let me just say that I will ask the Secretary of State for Finance to respond. I don't rule out the fact that the missionary status comes into the answer, but at least we've done it by the one who's really about it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 49 by Mrs Van Esch and Mrs Bouchallichh are concerned with emissions of ultra-fine dust. I'm thinking a little bit about what I want to do with this motion. Would you mind if I asked you to apprehend him? The next cabinet must decide. I share the urgency, but we're also really outgoing. I could now say, "I'm not going to advise her, because I'm not going to do that anymore," but I'm going to give you some thought to arresting her. I don't mind the big problem of ultraphine dust, but I really think I'd rule over my grave if I gave this judgment Chamber right now. In fact, I would suggest that we hold her over and then ask the new ruler very quickly how he gives that report a place, because the studies are serious. Mrs. Van Esch, I should have looked at you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u303	I would like to continue the motion with the request or the Secretary of State can arrange for a government to arrive very quickly, otherwise we will continue to hold motions all the time and then we will never get through. If this Secretary of State can promise, I'll hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u304	At the request of Mrs Van Esch, I propose her motion (35925-XII, No. 49). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u305	I've learned in this house that when people attribute this kind of power to you, only humble gratitude fits. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 50. This is about information about wood-burning. You could read this motion in such a way that it says here: if you give information about wood-burning, do not just give heating tips, but also give a lot of attention when it is best not to burn. That is important, as far as I am concerned. If it's just wind silent, then you're not supposed to stoke. If that's the point, I'd... I honestly think, Mrs Van Esch, a little bit judging, that this motion is meant to go a little further, more like: stop burning tips and just say that people shouldn't stoke. Then I should also stop educating on firewood and giving heating tips. I don't intend to. So let me look at Mrs Van Esch, whether it is the first or the second interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u306	Exciting, exciting. My idea with this motion is indeed to stop giving people information about burning if the burning is not sustainable. I think this Secretary of State knows exactly what I mean by this. I also fear that it will be the word 'dissuade' from this motion. I think I can get a very nice motion with judgment Chamber, but then the whole intention of my own motion is gone. I'd be very sorry to hear that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u307	My hopes go up in smoke, but then I must discourage this motion. Which brings me to the last motion, the motion in part no. 54, by Mr Stoffer and Mr Grinwis. This motion concerns the repairability of products. I think that's a very nice initiative. I see Mr Grinwis' shadow now, almost literally, behind Mr Stoffer. I'll wrestle with the next one. We are really working very hard on the European energy label. I expect to have this European proposal in practice next year. I'm afraid that doesn't work very well. Could I suggest that Mr Stoffer continues this motion in close consultation with Mr Grinwis? They will then be able to see if the European proposal, which is really fast, will please both of them. Then there is always room for national discussions. But something national to do when we are so far on this European approach does not seem to me to be the most effective form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u308	Let me be clear: we are not dealing with two systems next to each other. So if that proposal comes from Europe very quickly, then of course we can think about it. I need to talk to Mr Grinwis about that, otherwise I might have a fight next week and I don't want to. Then the coalition will be so difficult. But until then, how long do I have to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u309	You ask me an exact question of conscience about a timetable of the European Commission. If you give me ten seconds, I'll see if I can make my answer even more precise. But I can't find it that fast. I'm going to let you know when I expect that European proposal. I have been told that this proposal must be very far-reaching next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u310	Yes, but "next year" can be in two months, but also in fourteen months...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u311	I can't do that here right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u312	... but an answer a little later suits me just fine. I'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u313	I had one final comment, but I still see Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u314	I had not yet received any response to the deadline for holding the motion on item No. 36.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u315	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to thank the Chamber for this budget debate. For me it was my maiden speech in this form. I would also like to thank all the staff of the Ministry of IenW. Behind our answers are always a lot of very hardworking people. This applies not only to us, but to all the people I see sitting in the back row. Well, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u316	But when will Mr De Hoop receive an answer? Oh, that's what the Minister's gonna do. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u317	I hope I'm allowed to speak now, even though the microphone hasn't been cleaned yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u318	You just don't need to breathe. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u319	Okay. I propose to Mr De Hoop that the BZK colleague inform you. We're not getting in touch right now. People are just entitled to their sleep, I say to Mr Geurts. However, it is a legitimate question which deserves a careful answer. The collective agreement has yet to be established. He's now in consultation with the support staff. It also states that we are going to make more homework possible for state officials. There is also a further investigation to support that, but when exactly that is done, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u320	But we will be told that in writing, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u321	Yeah, through the Home Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u322	And for Tuesday's votes, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u323	That's what I'm gonna ask, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u324	Yes. It's on this one. One short question from Mrs Bouchallichh. We really want to go home, ma'am.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u325	I don't think we've had an appreciation of the motion in part No. 48. Unless I'm incredibly mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u326	It was the Minister of Finance who was going to deliver it. You didn't get that appreciation, we didn't get it, but the Minister of Finance is going to take care of it, because it's his policy area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u327	Oh, yeah, it was. I remember. Great! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u328	I would also like to thank the Chamber for its input and for the debate. It's a weird budget, I think, for both of us. I know another budget quite well, but I have been able to make a little less of a contribution to it. Thank you also to all Members of Parliament for the good debate. As the Secretary of State said, thank you to everyone, including the staff of the Chamber, but also to the staff of the Ministry of IenW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u329	Thank you, too, and the Secretary of State. Thank you for your work over the last few days and also thank you to the officials who prepared the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u330	We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions and on the budget next Tuesday. Oh, I am now being told that we are voting on the motions and on the budget at the beginning of December.
