ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u1	We'll go straight ahead with another two-minute debate. That is with the same ruler, although he is accompanied by another ruler. He'll be here in a minute. That's the Minister of Education, Culture and Science. This two-minute debate is about teachers and is taking place following a committee debate which took place on 6 October last. I'm just waiting for the Minister of Education, Culture and Science. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Westerveld, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks. I got two debates mixed up. We are indeed going to talk about another subject first. That is the two-minute debate on the policy response to research into sexual cross-border behaviour in education. That's with the same two rulers. Mrs Westerveld is also the first speaker in this two-minute debate. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u2	Otherwise, I'd have the wrong motion on me. That's a little clumsy, too. Mr. Chairman. We have requested this two-minute debate because we, and I think we are not the only ones, are rather shocked by the figures from the research into sexual cross-border behaviour in education. In particular, it shows that a tasked person is involved in an incident. We also saw that reports have increased alarmingly, especially in secondary special education. I would like to ask: how can that be? I find that very uncomfortable, because it is the young people who often find it difficult to learn well, who often need some extra support. This group is also more victimized than other groups of sexually cross-border behavior. But we also see in other sectors, including higher education, that worrying things are happening there. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sexual cross-border behaviour has increased in all educational sectors;]] [[noting that above average pupils in special education and practical education are often confronted with sexual cross-border behaviour and that reports of incidents involving a person in charge of duties are more frequent;]] [[noting that the Inspection only records cases and does not investigate declarations of increase and/or decrease in the number of notifications;]] [[Considering that many students in higher education are not familiar with the procedures at the educational institution for sexual cross-border behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to make sector-specific agreements with all educational sectors, representatives of pupils and students and with knowledge centres with a view to:]] [[get a picture of why the number of notifications is increasing;]] [[address cross-border behaviour;]] [[familiarise pupils, students and teaching staff with procedures and staff to whom they can lodge a notification;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have one more comment. I have looked at various websites of higher education institutions to see what a student should do if he or she is involved in an incident. Some institutions do that incredibly well. They have names and proposals of confidants. But on other websites you can see that you can email the address trusting person@name setting. Of course, that seems a little less accessible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u4	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr De Hoop. He will speak on behalf of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are also talking in plenary about these terrible situations that are taking place in education. Especially our concerns about hopping have not really been removed after reading the answer in the SO. What can really be done in concrete terms about hopping? Do we have a visual on the size of the problem? We understand, of course, that ministers cannot intervene in the contract between employer and employee, but you would say that something else could be done. Just underlining that checking references is important is not enough when it comes to such serious matters. We can make it legally mandatory for school boards to ask for references, but the cabinet chooses not to. If it's so well arranged now, why did it occur in the investigation? Is it wise to use the vog more than once as a continuous screening, given the recommendation of the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre? How do the Ministers intend to ensure that incidents are reported more quickly when they fall into the so-called grey area? How do we speed up this poachy system by its collegial nature, without involving disciplinary law, as the Minister has indicated that he does not want to use disciplinary law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u6	Thank you for your input. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. The directors have indicated that they can respond immediately and give an appreciation of the motion tabled. I'll see which of the two rulers starts first. The Minister of Education, Culture and Science will speak first. I'll give her the floor on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to comment on Mrs Westerveld's motion, although it is on both portfolios. Perhaps Mr Slob will say something about it in a moment. I very much recognise the image you are presenting, including the image of the awareness of higher education institutions. You can do better than that. It is certainly good to see how we can improve the awareness of the procedure for pupils and students, so that they can also easily express their concerns and complaints. The motion also contains good suggestions. So we're happy to give the motion judgment Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u8	Thank you. The minister has to wait a little longer, because there's still some cleaning to be done. Then I will also give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. With much thanks to the minister, I give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u9	Mr. Chairman. Following on from my colleague, who gave this motion judgment Chamber, I would like to add that we may be able to work it out in a few different ways. I agree with you that the figures are really disturbing. Very soon new figures will come and, according to what I have already heard a little bit about them, they will probably not be less. So it is really a development that is worrying. It is also true that the inspection is actually merely passing on the figures. What I would like to say, and what I have already put out in my organisation, is that we are going to do very specific research into the causes of this. I'm not gonna have all kinds of group conversations first, but we're gonna do a little more solid research to see what's behind this. That's one. That's very important to do. The second, but I do not know whether you have already reached it, although I have already signed it, is that the evaluation of the Social Security Act is coming your way or has now come. I understand that there is, but I can imagine you haven't read it yet. I had a second conversation with the students of the Gomarus College about which we had a debate at the time. For their part, too, I have been told very clearly that it is very difficult to find the way when something is not going well. They don't know where they can go. You can read in the letter that I am making a number of concrete proposals to get to work on this. So that is also a line, but we can talk about it separately, and we can see how we can help students as much as possible to raise it if something happens that is not in order, that they know themselves safely and that they can act quickly. That's a second. The third is about the vso-students, but also the students of PRO are included. Those are often extra vulnerable children. It is terrible if they experience this in this way. Know that we are talking to these groups and to representatives of those groups, the Specialized Education Sector Council as it is now called and the Sector Council PRO, but also the apprenticeship representation of the vso can be involved, to see how we can help them to be resilient and how we can also protect them further. When it comes to the vso, there is a very specific version made of the Long Long Live Love teaching method, in order to be able to apply it properly. Those are, of course, very good things. This is Rutgers'. Maybe there are other things. But we are doing very well to see how we can also support these students. Mr De Hoop has put his finger on an issue which is currently under discussion, particularly as regards the vog. The screening of teaching staff is currently being carried out with JenV, but other departments are also involved in sectors involving vulnerable people, because they are also subject to rules. JenV is currently developing a risk methodology to relate that level of screening to the level of risk of a sector. I'm just gonna read it to you exactly the way I got it. That is a very good indication of what is being done. On the basis of this, one looks at what might be additional very specific in a particular sector where the risks are greater. That conversation's still going on. I think it is good to inform you of this when it comes to results. I think that's gonna go through JenV. In this way we can look very closely at what might be additional in the education sector. Then when it comes to what you said about disciplinary law. We know that there is a duty of care for social security. If there's any suspicion of a sexual offense, you should report it. I have already promised your Chamber that I want to extend it: there must also be a duty to report if there are suspicions of sexual harassment. We are therefore very specifically working to further refine the rules that we already have when it comes to reporting and such. I don't think it's gonna help at all if we suddenly introduce something completely different. Because if we were to work with the disciplinary system, that would be something completely new. They do so in other sectors, but not in education. I think that the confusion is only getting bigger and that the threshold will not be lower, but rather higher. It is also in the evaluation of the Social Security Act in schools and I suggest that we continue the discussion. So that conversation is whether we think that the adjustments to the current system are sufficient. Then, of course, we can talk about a disciplinary system, but I do not think that will really help at the moment. Mr President, I think I... What I hear now is, I think, a bit part of the discussion we are also having about the vog. How can we properly assess the risks and what additional risks do we need if we are to mitigate them more than we are doing now? Let's continue that conversation when JenV has come up with the information on what it has achieved in a broad sense. You must also be careful that we are suddenly going to do things quite differently, after we have made sector-wide agreements on this with each other. There really must be a good basis underneath and we are not that far at the moment. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u10	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-24.u11	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Wednesday 17 November.
