ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members for the first time: four questions and/or comments in the direction of each other and six in the direction of the cabinet. At about 13.10 or 13.15 hours we suspend until 14.00 hours. That includes lunch break. Let's get started. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we were unable to put the corona virus behind us in 2021. Where we were hoping by 2020 that we would be out of it in a few months, we now know better. After the delta variant we are currently dealing with the omikron variant. This variant once again leads to a high number of infections and we have to worry. We are concerned about the spread, but also about how well our vaccination protects us from it. A separate OMT opinion will follow on Friday. Why isn't that there yet? What's been known already? When will the cabinet decide on any measures? One thing is certain: the booster plays an important role. It is good that the Minister is now making every effort to make it available to everyone as soon as possible. The VVD has repeatedly insisted on this. Each 18-pluser is offered a booster shot by the second half of January and the booster is placed after three months instead of six months after the last vaccination. When we look at the omikron virus, the question is: is this fast enough? Is the attendance rate in line with the ambition? Are there enough people now to pass out the shots? Is this settled, too? During the last Corona debate, I mentioned that pharmacists can help. Will this group be deployed as well? Can they register the vaccinations as well? And in order not to have to have this discussion again in a few months: is there now a plan for the following boosters? Then the vaccinations. Are there any results to be reported in reaching the groups remaining with vaccines? Did we do everything we could to achieve that? How many slots for the first vaccination are actually filled weekly? Is everything ready in time for vaccination of children aged 5 to 11 years? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the extension of the measures. I can well imagine that people had hoped that in the dark days around Christmas and the turn of the year we would no longer have to deal with restrictions in our visit and with shops that close earlier, but I understand that, given the figures, there is no such thing. It is good that the government has therefore immediately announced support measures for entrepreneurs in the affected sectors. The one week extra closing the schools is a bitter pill. It's not an easy measure. We understand, but we also see the impact this has on children, parents, teachers and educators. We would have liked to have seen this knot cut earlier, to make preparations. Why hasn't this decision been made before? I thought you said there were OMT opinions. Mr. Chairman. What about the burden of care, both in hospitals, the first line, and in home care? We want to relieve them, don't we? Can the Minister indicate whether the measures taken in recent times have paid off? Have we been able to prevent further scaling down of the necessary care, but also of the critically planned care? Is there sufficient budget for corona care in 2022? It has been indicated that it has been shattered. Is there money for catching up, for example? Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate, I asked the cabinet to enforce more strictly the measures we had to take. Yesterday we read in a letter that compliance and control have slightly improved, but that we have not yet arrived. The cabinet makes extra money available for the intensification of compliance and control. Can this money also be spent on additional enforcement capacity? I am asking because this is called a major bottleneck. How should the measures do their job if compliance and control only slightly improve?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agema from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	Like the VVD, we are very concerned about the bill for catching up care. We have asked for this before. So far, the Minister has always replied that insurers have to solve this, that they have to pay those receipts. Does the VVD support the cabinet in this or does the VVD think that other funding should be found, for example by including the catching-up care in the state debt, as with other corona costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	For me, the first thing is that there's just got to be enough money. I think we can find each other in that. First of all, there must be sufficient money to ensure that this corona care is properly provided by 2022. That goes all over the chain. But we certainly need to be able to catch up. It is fine if the insurance companies are the first to do so, but too little money should not be a bottleneck in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	I do not think it would be a good idea if the insurance companies were the first move in this direction. Because we know where that leads. This leads to higher care premiums. It doesn't seem like the VVD here is arguing for higher care premiums. My question was: does Mrs De Vries agree that this account should be placed somewhere else, that it should be added, for example, to the sovereign debt, where all the accounts for the financial arrangements have been deposited?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	Of course, I'm not in favour of a higher care premium. That is why we have already indicated in the budget debate that we need to look very closely at the sustainability of care. But it is an illusion to say that if it is not allowed to go to the insurers and the government has to do it, it is not ultimately paid by the people in the country either. In the end, this must be achieved through taxpayers' money. So as far as I'm concerned, it's just a matter of getting enough money to do it. That's the most important thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	When it comes to public debt and all the bills that have led to that sovereign debt getting higher, it will of course come back to our children and grandchildren in 30 years' time. But that doesn't mean it's paid through taxes. My question to the VVD was: how does she want that bill to be paid for catching up? The cabinet says: through the insurers. This leads to a higher care premium. I say do it in the same way as the way the Tozo, the NOW and the TVL were financed, i.e. by increasing public debt. I'm actually not getting a clear answer from the VVD. Where does the VVD want the bill for catching up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think this is a bit of a discussion that I think is: if it is in the future, it does not have to be paid by taxpayers. In the end, all we all spend here through budgets is also money that ultimately has to be raised by the people in the country. We need to be careful about that. I understand that in the system we have, the basis first lies with the health insurance companies. You can also reason that, of course, they did not have to pay for part of the care that was not provided. I've also asked if there's enough budget for the corona care. Is there a sufficient budget for catching up? Then I think it's up to the Cabinet to make sure that's there in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u10	I think Mrs De Vries knows very well that there is not enough money at all for catching up. These are also agreements that the VVD itself made at the time, under pressure from the VVD, with the hospitals, namely that there will be zero growth in hospital care for 2022. They're on the zero for next year. Under pressure from this, health insurers do not now make appointments with hospitals, and there are great concerns, even among patients: can I still go to the hospital next year around the corner? I would like to ask Mrs De Vries two questions. Does she agree with the SP that this zero line should be removed for hospitals because there has been an entirely new disease that requires a great deal of care? And doesn't she also think that patients now have the right to be sure that they can go to a hospital next year where they feel at home, which is around their corners, for the treatment they need?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u11	I'm starting to repeat myself a little bit, I think. When more money is needed next year, we should, as far as we are concerned, because we simply think that this should be done in a good way. If you say that should take place around the corner, then I think people should have a choice too. If they could and should want to go somewhere else sooner, that should also be possible. So, as far as I'm concerned, this direct link is not what we stand for. I think people should be helped quickly, if they can get close to them, absolutely. But if they choose to do so elsewhere, because they might be able to do so more quickly, we have also seen this morning the differences between how the planable and the critical planned care is scaled down, I can also imagine that people choose to do so themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u12	We are now in a situation where a hospital director here in The Hague says: go to another health insurance company, because we are not getting the contracts with the health insurance companies around, partly because of the pressure that is being put from here, from this room, from the cabinet to the hospitals and the insurers not to provide extra care in the following year, because of the zero line there is for the hospitals. As a result, no agreements are made and a director of a hospital says: you should no longer be with these insurers, because we cannot make the agreement with them. That creates a lot of uncertainty for all those people who have been in hospital for years. I just want to be sure from the VVD that the zero line that is now in place, so that those agreements do not come off the table. You say there must be enough money. Then you'll have to come up with money, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u13	I asked first if there is enough budget, because I have also read that normal corona care is going to be worn out, even for next year. I want to know from the cabinet if that money is sufficient right now. I don't know these very specific cases. I apologize for that. But then I would also like to know from the cabinet what is the reason why this is happening and how it could be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u14	I hear the VVD pleading for extra money to enforce rules. Now, of course, I am always in favour of maintaining the rules, but it is a choice. We're going to maintain a QR pass that we've just heard doesn't work for the omikron variant. But there's never any extra money to the ic capacity. On behalf of BVNL, I tabled motion after motion after motion to increase that ic capacity. I wonder why the VVD is consistently opposed to increasing that ic capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u15	Why we are voting against these motions is because a number of steps have already been taken by the cabinet, including to try to scale them up. It is not the case that we have a motion here that the people are there for those ICIs. When I look at the answers to a number of questions, I thought of Forum........................................................................................................................................................... So a number of steps have indeed been taken. It also looked at how this training could be reduced. It is not the case that we have a motion here that all these people are suddenly ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u16	That's weird. I understand that this is not about the content of the motion, but about the procedural fact that we do not want to indicate here by motion what the Minister should do next. The fact is that in recent years we have only seen a reduction in the number of ic-beds. In the past year 75 ICU nurses have been flooded and zero have been added. There is even a plan submitted by the National Coordination Centre for Patients Spreading and the Dutch Association for Intensive Care to have 100 extra ic-beds with staff as of 1 December. Are you familiar with this and, if so, are you against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u17	I am not opposed to looking at what solutions might be available to scale up the ic, but it must be a workable alternative that can also be implemented. Every time Mr Van Haga says: the only solution is to scale up the ic. If you can, please. But it is also the delay in taking measures. We have to be honest about that, too. Lying on an I.C. is really not fun. I understand that Mr Van Haga would not want any measures. I would not be able to explain that, namely that we would only have a lot of people lying on the ice. That's not what I'd wish for anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u18	Of course it's not the only solution. Of course we of BVNL are not against all measures. But we are against harmful measures, which means that you have to scale down planable care and cause medical, economic, social and cultural collateral damage. That damage is enormous, thanks to the VVD as well. Now there is a concrete plan, presented on 17 September, to add 100 extra ic-beds. Then why are you against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u19	I don't know why you're looking at me. First of all, it is up to the cabinet to choose a form in the ic capacity. I believe that Mr Ernst Kuipers explained this morning during the technical briefing that this variant was indeed looked at, but that another solution was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u20	Your last interruption, Mr. Van Haga. No? You will continue your speech, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u21	I was talking about enforcement and control. We are also curious about the situation with regard to the urgent advice to work at home. Is there a better response to this? The traffic jams seem to be a bit less, but that probably doesn't give a complete picture. The cabinet has presented a plan for the approach in this and upcoming winters. We're gonna have to talk about that. For the VVD there are also corona tickets and 2G. The VVD does argue for a faster timeline. At the end of January, as far as we are concerned, it is very late to review the current approach and what is needed for this winter. Mr President, I will conclude. It won't be easy these holidays again. Part of the family via Zoom at the table instead of cozy together. No parties around old and new. Let's keep in mind what we're doing and within the rules try to spend these holidays together, one way or another. Through you, Mr President, I make an urgent appeal to people who follow this debate at home. Please, let us not take our displeasure out on agents, paramedics and other aid workers, or on the people in the care, who have not invented the rules, but still have to deal with aggression. We don't need short fuses and during these last days of the year we certainly don't have anything. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u23	I have another question about education. On 1 December, Mrs De Vries of the VVD said that it could be an option to close schools if other sectors get more air. That decision was not taken at the time; it is now taken shortly in advance. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries: what does she think of the fact that the schools are closed earlier, while people can still drink beer on the terrace or somewhere else during the day and we can still go out for days?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u24	I doubt I said it like that, but okay. When I look at today's measure: I really would have preferred the cabinet to have decided earlier on an extra week of Christmas holidays. Then there would have been more preparation time for the parents and for the schools. I think that would have been better for the children too. But I think it can be defended. In practical terms, this also has to do with how Christmas holidays and Christmas days fall. It's very close together. Unfortunately, we still see a lot of infections among the group of children from 0 to 12 years old. I think it's a very difficult decision. We have always said that we are keeping education open for as long as possible, but I think that this one week is, as far as we are concerned, justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mrs De Vries indicated in the previous debate that it might be an option, as I said, to give more air to other sectors if decisions were to be taken in time. Now it is very short in advance and I would like to ask her how she thinks this is to be explained to education. Doesn't she agree that the government should take education seriously? If you're gonna make that decision, you're gonna have to make it in time. What does she think of the priority? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u26	I have already indicated that I would have preferred that we had made this decision earlier. It's not the first time the OMT has advised this. I deliberately asked for this last time and supported Mrs Westerveld's and Mrs D66's motion to bring forward that decision. I'm afraid that didn't happen. I regret that, and I think that we are now asking a great deal of education and parents to be flexible. But I look at all the developments, at the uncertainty with Omikron and how Christmas holidays fall compared to the Christmas days where the Christmas holidays begin and we go straight into Christmas, where I think there will be a need to get together with parents and grandparents anyway. In that light, I think this is justified, even though I would have preferred to have taken the decision earlier with the reasons I have already indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. There's another interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mrs De Vries says that it can be defended. But how is it that the cabinet makes promises every time that it doesn't deliver and comes to a decision very late? Is it justifiable for a prime minister to say, "Don't go to Grandpa and Grandma"? A quarter of the parents indicate: I'm going to use grandpa and grandma, because I just have to work; I'm a cleaner or I work here at the restaurant. Isn't it very difficult to understand that the cabinet acts too late, intervenes too late, shoppes in advice at its own discretion, and therefore makes these kinds of decisions too late that are rather harmful to a lot of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u29	These are a lot of points I could respond to, because I think the nuance is slightly different. I didn't see the Cabinet making a promise that they wouldn't come to Christmas break. They said we'll make that decision later. I find that unfortunate; I am very honest in that. But I think I can explain when I look at the problem we are facing. Then we'll just have to take that bitter pill. This requires much of the flexibility of parents, schools and children. I understand all the problems that come with this from the shelter. Indeed, it has been called not to use the grandparents. I hope that people will take responsibility for this, even though I realise that it is a very difficult job for many parents to find a solution to this problem in the next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u30	The reality is that both Minister Slob and Minister De Jonge have repeatedly said: the last thing to happen is closing the schools. Minister Slob said very clearly: no, the schools are not closing. It wasn't final decision until Tuesday. The reality is that in the meantime Ikea is still open, the Efteling is still open, talking about outings, the casino is still open and all kinds of other things continue during the day. In other words, children are forced to lock down, and parents can just do whatever they want. How realistic does Mrs De Vries think this is? Does she understand that people's confidence in the approach to corona policy is incredibly falling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u31	I find the words "lockdown" and "a week extra Christmas vacation" complicated, but I get that you can interpret it that way, because they close for a week. I also understand the inconvenience where you see that other sectors may have some space, but I also find it complicated to explain. When we see that there are a lot of infections, especially in that group of primary school students, and we see that there is a period when people want to be together while those infections are being transferred to parents and grandparents, I think you should take that into account in the type of measures you take. I think this is a measure that can be defended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. Where last year the alpha variant was the Nightmare before Christmas, this year it is omikron that raises its head. There is a lot of uncertainty, but it is clear that omikron is a virus in the sixth gear and that we, politicians of both Chamber and Cabinet, have the question: how do we deal with this in the Netherlands? The answer I have, I think, is across the border, because it's better to steal well than to make up bad ideas. In other countries, I see that more is being boosted, that more is being focused on ventilation, that there is better maintenance, that there is more testing and that there is 2G policy. The Dutch also see that, because there was more and more booster tourism. In Cologne and Aachen the Dutch were in line at the prick streets. And in the evening they also go out for dinner, because the restaurants are open in Germany with 2G. Undoubtedly, all of Europe will be affected by omikron, but it seems that the Netherlands needs to close more and more, because we are avoiding difficult choices. There's another three weeks of night lockdown coming up, a long hibernation. We are thus becoming the country that is the least sport, that visits the least performances and gets the hardest economic blow. The KNVB, the culture sector and the pop stages: many entrepreneurs send us fire letters. This requires something from us as politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr Paternotte can hardly describe it more accurately. Outside the country is doing better, we should have started boostering earlier and the ventilation is out of order. Everyone's screwed. On 4 November, D66 tabled another motion to start boosters and accelerate. That's just happening now. In short, D66's adjectives didn't make any sense. But the cabinet has actually done nothing about it and is still acting in the short term. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that the cabinet is actually failing in its approach, if all the examples, all the information and warnings are repeated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u36	I can't stand those boosters. We also mentioned in September that we saw that difference between us and other countries. I also do not understand why the Health Council did not say until 3 November: you have to give all those 60-plussers a booster. When the cabinet said it was going to start after Saint Nicholas, we tabled that motion, along with Mrs Den Haan. At that time, the cabinet did say that it was going to start a few weeks earlier. What we heard yesterday from the Minister, indeed, I would have preferred to have heard much earlier. Then we'd be a lot further. That's what we see in the nursing homes. I think it is important that these lessons are drawn, both by the government and by the Health Council. I like the idea of that reflection being asked. But I really want us to do the best we can from now on. I welcome the fact that we are now being told that we want everyone to be given that booster shot by mid-January and that we are finally going to call for everyone. We're gonna ask the hospitals that have offered help to help, and we're gonna deploy all the medical students. As far as I am concerned, we are also giving pharmacists much more opportunities. That's the most important thing right now. Looking back is also important, but previews are even more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mrs. Chicken, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u38	I know that this is the motto of the new cabinet, but it is the same cabinet with the same prime minister and the four parties VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion, who also have to shape the corona approach for the coming years. If we have not learned in all this time to evaluate and to be critical of ourselves and for two years now all the advice and information from abroad has been in the wind and if your critical warnings have not led to anything so far, I say that the cabinet has failed and made a mistake on error. So what makes Mr Paternotte have faith in that future that he sees before him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u39	For two reasons: that here is not only a responsibility for the cabinet, but also for us as a Lower House. We have not yet taken any steps that many other countries have dared to take and can help. I'm gonna say something about that in a minute. And secondly, because I do see a change. Yesterday it was announced that the interval between that second shot and that booster goes to three months. We saw that the day before yesterday the Netherlands really had the longest interval of all Western Europe. My concern was that we would only change that after another request for urgent advice from the Health Council. Then we'll be a few weeks away. But that didn't happen. The interval has now moved to three months. This finally allows us to give that third shot to everyone who needs that booster now. I think that is an improvement, because it means that we are now more decisive and taking a lesson that had already been taken abroad, and not just waiting for advice to be stacked on advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr Van Dissel was actually very clear this morning: if we do not make sure that we are going to put those boosters very quickly, then we will have a huge influx of new patients in the hospitals in January. "Boosting, boostering, boostering," he said. We as SP get a lot of phone calls, lots of e-mails from people who want to schedule an appointment and don't get it done. It's about caregivers, it's about 60-plussers. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte... Am I out of line?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u41	No, there was something about the sound. A buzzing tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u42	Do I have to start all over again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u43	No, you're good to hear, even with a buzzing tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u44	My question to Mr Paternotte is whether it is not time to wipe that bureaucracy aside, because I think that is driving a lot of people crazy. Wouldn't it be wise to go to a kind of walk-in and see if we could, even before the end of the year, give anyone over 50 the opportunity to just go to large or smaller centres per municipality and then pats! Get that booster? Surely that would be a lot simpler than the huge bureaucracy that we are running into and the overloaded telephone lines that we get a lot of complaints about from the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr President, I said that of the sound for a moment because Mr Hijink sounds like a crackling radio from the 1930s. I don't know if that's the case in the rest of the room. No, I see. Okay. He was very clear and I thought it was a very good question. Look at Paris, Brussels, Aachen and Cologne. You should say Cologne and Aachen. That's where you do have those places where people can walk in. There are also queues, but I saw a week and a half ago in Holland's Middle East, which happens to be the GGD region where I live myself, which also had huge queues and that people are quite willing to wait if they could get that booster sooner. If that's the way to speed things up: absolutely. That is why I asked for this in the previous debate. I can see that there is not only a very big problem with the GGD phone now because there are a lot of people calling and it is therefore totally overloaded. But I also spoke to someone who was born in 1961, who happens to be a member of my group, who is now scheduled somewhere early next year, and that could be done online. So there's also a shortage of places now. We're going to deploy the hospitals and medical students now. As far as I'm concerned, we'll do it as soon as possible. If you can do that fastest with those walk-in locations, that's fine with me. If you can do that with blocks where you can sign up based on your birth year, fine, too. As long as it's up and running.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u46	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned the fact that we, as politicians, are asked why much is now closed more often and longer in the Netherlands, and that is said: make sure that we get out of those lockdowns faster. Of course, partly because of the slow start of boostering. Other countries did this faster and the nursing homes are now safer there. Part of it is also due to enforcement. I understand that we require a great effort from the enforcers, but what I don't understand is that some mayors are wondering out loud whether they're going to maintain at all. In France, for example, that does not happen at all and they are much better. But in part, it's also up to us as a room. Because we have to make choices, including 2G, such as Estonia, Sweden, Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Italy, Ireland, etc. I call on you: please look around you what is happening in Europe. The poet Heinrich Heine once said: when the world ends, I go to the Netherlands, because there everything always happens 50 years later. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions. First of all, why is this decision on schools only now? After all, they have been saying for weeks: give clarity! So now the schools are closing because of their big contribution to the corona spread. But what are we really doing to make it safer in those classes? A CO meter costs €35. Why isn't there one in every classroom, like in Belgium? Are you prepared to at least ask the OMT to indicate by January what we can do to make it safer in those classrooms? Mr. Chairman. Special education was the alarm clock. There are many vulnerable children. Special education would like an exception to the closure. Is there anything else that could happen? Then I'll come to the vaccinations. I saw a very successful pilot in Frisian pharmacies: close to the people, hundreds of pricks and each in small towns. We'd like to expand this. So I ask the cabinet to make it possible for pharmacists throughout the Netherlands to help with pricking and to do so independently in the future. Mr. Chairman. I come to my second point. What will be the booster policy for young people who have already been vaccinated with Janssen in the spring, whether or not to dance with it? Whoever's bossed abroad can't register his shot here right now. When is this finally possible? We still have to treat 2G in the Chamber. But I see in many countries that they also use an extra test in a 2G setting. Can the cabinet start this technical preparation? The cabinet indicates that this lasts eight to twelve weeks. Finally, Mr President. This is the 44th Corona debate and more than 1,000 motions have already been tabled. There are incredibly many people who work hard, from care to ministries. However, it is not given to everyone to stay as well underneath it as this corona minister. So on the border of the Christmastreces I also say: bravely forward and not faltering. I say to the Netherlands: Enjoy Christmas, be careful with corona, please be vaccinated, keep your distance, test happy complaints, open that window, watch your grandmother's 70, but also that unvaccinated uncle of 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you. Mr Hijink of the SP has his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u49	That question is about education. The Prime Minister was not really very clear yesterday about when the schools could open up again. For the SP it is not really possible to explain that children, even in January, could go to the McDonald's during the day, but not to school. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte whether he agrees with the SP that this school closure should be a last resort if all other means are exhausted. Does he agree with the SP that it cannot be that we will see in January that the cafés, shops and restaurants are open during the day while we keep the schools closed? Does D66 agree with the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u50	I agree with Mr Hijink. Mr Van Dissel just indicated that we now had the very special circumstance with a school that is open directly for the most important holiday of the year, the day of the birth of Jesus Christ. I would like to make one comment. The new German Health Minister, I believe, is an epidemiologist, said that omikron makes children much sicker. We're getting messages like that from South Africa. We don't know if it's true or exactly what it is, so I don't want to judge it further. But if that were really the case and if that were worrying, then that could be reason to look at this. But in principle I fully agree with Mr Hijink that school closure should be at the bottom of the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u51	Thank you. The last interruption by Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u52	I hear Mr Paternotte making a passionate plea for the 2G system. But now we have heard in the technical briefing this morning that the vaccinations are actually losing their value quite quickly. We also heard that AstraZeneca is no longer helping with the new Omikron variant. My question is: is Mr Paternotte of D66 prepared to review the whole fascination with the QR pass, the corona access pass? Is he willing to at least put that 2G system in the fridge? Because that really does not have any effect if the omikron variant plagues our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u53	I think I've been in another technical briefing. I have heard Mr Van Dissel over and over again stress how incredibly important these boosters are and why it is so important to speed up the booster campaign. These boosters restore people's protection, protection against mild complaints and, indeed, against hospitalisation. They increase protection against mild complaints by three quarters. Because they protect better, we have to speed it up a lot. In my view, that is exactly the reasoning behind 2G and how this can prevent people from entering the hospital. After all, you don't have vulnerable people at such an event. So yes, I think it's very good if the OMT is constantly looking at: what is the scientific basis of the way we work and of the tickets we use? What I heard this morning just seems like a reason to find 2G safer than 3G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr Paternotte talks about scientific evidence. The OMT has indicated that 2G does not reduce virus spread. 2G is a way to make sure you can open a number of sectors checked. I find mine, but I can also see that Mr Paternotte has repeatedly engaged in a number of false contradictions. I wonder why he throws up that false contradiction from one side the coronapas and entering 2G, and on the other side say that if we don't, we'll be in a lockdown longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u55	Because I'm looking abroad. For other, better ideas I am very open. But one of the best kept secrets of this Chamber is what Mr Kuzu himself would do if he were sitting on Mr De Jonge's chair and now dealing with this huge wave of infections. I look abroad and I see that, from Estonia to Malta, Sweden, Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, Switzerland and Italy, people say that 2G is safer than 3G. There are countries that still work with 3G, such as France and Belgium. Of course, I'd prefer it if we could do it with an access test. But which countries have 3G and a free entry test? The Netherlands is about the last country in Europe to have that. In the meantime, you can say: that is good, because then not everything is accessible to everyone. But when things are just closed, there's nothing accessible to anyone at all. And I don't want us stuck in that lockdown all winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u56	I would like to emphasise two elements of Mr Paternotte's reply. He says, for example, that we don't come up with ideas. Three corona debates ago, my group tabled a motion in which we say: make sure that CO meters are hung in indoor spaces. Who was against that motion? Mr Paternotte of D66 was against. The next corona debate he himself came up with a similar motion, and he did get a majority. I'd like to emphasize that. That's the first thing. The second point. When I ask Mr Paternotte why 2G would be better, he refers to abroad. Let me give you an example of the OMT. The OMT itself states that it is not a means to prevent virus spread. If the stakes were to prevent virus spread, 2G would not be the solution. That is what I am criticizing about Mr Paternotte's answers in this area. So I'd say, instead of looking abroad, listen to your own OMT first and don't run away the moment you don't like it, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u57	Our own OMT has of course sent us the investigations that say... Of course, it's the easiest thing to close. Then you don't have a spread. But what is the best way to prevent spread and hospitalization after that? The OMT also gives us scientific research that suggests that this is the 2G base. Three corona debates ago I also asked you: "Mr Kuzu, what would DENK do? What would you say if you could mention one measure?" The answer you gave at that time was to keep us to the basic measures and to communicate much better about them. I am very curious to see how Mr Kuzu reflects on that call today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr President, I do not count this as interrupting, but as entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u59	Let's not question each other. Soon Mr. Kuzu will come and you can ask him questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u60	Exactly, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u61	I'm giving you a chance to respond to that very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u62	It is indeed important that we comply with the basic measures. Let me give you the specific example of the CO detectors. We tabled a motion on this in the second term. Mr Paternotte voted against it three Corona debates ago. The next corona debate after that he himself came up with a similar motion. And then take me the measure that I wouldn't come up with ideas. Mr President, that says more about Mr Paternotte than about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u63	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u64	When we talk about the measure, I do not know whether we should discuss it with Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u65	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Excuse me, there's a technical problem at the microphone. When someone interrupts, there's a nasty noise. We're gonna fix that in suspension later. Then you know that. Mrs. Agema of the PVV, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 70 of the 173 ic nurses and doctors got infected with corona at a staff party in Italy. They were all vaccinated and tested three times. In Germany researchers concluded that the probability of someone getting infected with corona at a distance of 3 meters is almost certain after 5 minutes. Blood bank researchers found that the number of antibodies to corona after vaccination halves after two months. This shows how impotent we are against this virus and that not everything can be made with phones and apps, especially when vaccinees are as contagious as unvaccinated. Still, I don't think we're completely powerless. If we go back to the heart of the matter when it comes to how you can get infected and keep our focus on who is most likely to have a serious disease, we can still come a long way. For example, if the booster vaccination of older people and groups at risk had been completed on time, we would not have been so bad at the moment. The catch-up that's being made is good, but it's gonna be way too late. With a lot of stress, we go through the package night, the Formula 1 finale, Christmas and old and new. If the infection pressure is as high as today and our hospitals are heavily overloaded, we need to be able to switch quickly to contain infection pressure in a short time. This can only be achieved if the government gives a concrete indication of what we should do. The best thing is not to get in each other's breath, wear a mouth cap, open a window, rather than meet outside, test for complaints and stay home if you or your roommate has corona. Once the infection pressure is down, we can get back to normal. For two summers we were unjustly not free. The virus was almost gone and didn't run out. The government can't keep hanging out with us like that. We need to move forward, with the right focus on older people and at-risk groups. It looks like the coronabooster will become a recurring phenomenon for those who are older and vulnerable. Anyway, anyone who wants to get a vaccine should be able to get it in time. It is also useful to make available conventional corona vaccines for those who do not want mRNA vaccine. Be honest with the people at home, I tell the government. Corona vaccines significantly reduce the risk of hospitalisation, but not the chance of getting infected. This is important. It's no use to us to have false security. In addition, more needs to be done on medication, vitamin C, D and zinc. Pretending our hospital capacity is sufficient is taking too long. In the years before the corona crisis, there was already a totally wrong governance culture, in which it was found that we could do without all that capacity. Nineteen ic's were closed. Five years before corona, we had 914 ic nurses more than at the start of the crisis. Since the outbreak of the crisis, there has been no structural investment. It can't be that we have freedom-limiting measures all summer long and the panic starts when there are more than 200 corona patients on the ic. Our ic-capacity needs to rise structurally, especially in terms of manning. It is wrong that we have half less ic capacity than the European average. It would be a good thing for the government to apologize to all those who see their surgery or treatment postponed because our hospital capacity is not in order. We really need to invest now. It's our concern. I am, of course, looking forward to the coalition agreement that will be presented this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u67	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's Advent time. We're on our way to Christmas. Not for everyone it is a religious holiday, but hopefully it is a day of light and hope for everyone. I hope that we will get through this together and that we will actually remain a society. In the words of bishop Gerard de Korte in his book Called for hope: "In peace, most of us probably spontaneously think of the absence of war. Yet in Holy Scripture peace has a much broader meaning. It is about the wholeness of each individual person, but also of the entire community." Mr. Chairman. This crisis is taking a long time. In this crisis, no one escapes the consequences. This crisis really affects us all and leads to fundamental questions and issues. To what extent should individual law depart from the collective interest? For decades, we haven't had to have that conversation, but for the CDA, that's the core. We need to think more from the collective interest. Man only becomes human in relation to another, but that also means that we sometimes have to refrain personally from something for the benefit of another. Mr. Chairman. If you look at the figures, it may not be surprising that there will be no relaxations, but it is a disappointment, especially for the catering industry. This applies even more to the catering industry in the border region, such as Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. People who are within five kilometers of the border can do anything there. The fact that schools have to close sooner is stressful for children, but also stressful for a lot of parents. Can the cabinet offer parents some comfort? Can the Minister reflect on that? Can the Minister explain again why young people are not allowed to work outdoors after 5 p.m.? Mr. Chairman. We've said before: Corona will stay with us for a while. We have to live with it. We see now that we are falling back into our old normal. Then the infections get back on and there's another lockdown with support measures. That cannot be sustained financially, but that also breaks the spirit of entrepreneurs and of everyone in society. The Minister is coming up with a medium-term plan. We are very much looking forward to that. We hope, like the VVD, that the plan for this winter can come a little earlier than the end of January. It is a good thing that innovations are also being looked at, but does this include, for example, how people can easily register as volunteers or healthcare providers? I receive e-mails from retired general practitioners who register and become despondent from the procedure. What about becoming self-sufficient? The CDA has been stressing that for years. The cabinet endorsed that. However, we now understand that the Dutch oral mask initiatives, such as the social workshop in Sittard and DSM, die a silent death. I'd like a response. What about the execution of my motion on the investigation of air cleaners? The Minister wrote on 6 July that he expected a short-term research proposal. When are the results coming? Because right now, in winter, good air cleaners would come in handy. We've received the RIVM report on ventilation. I have the next question. We've talked about funding for schools before. Now that we know about this RIVM report and the air cleaners, is schools also allowed to invest in it instead of having to adjust the whole building? Finally, Mr President. The Minister writes that he wants to stick to the extension of the Temporary Law measures every time. The CDA has already indicated that we want a comprehensive permanent law. I also hope that, despite all the distance and measures, we can all still have a good Christmas. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you wait long enough, doubt, meet and muddy up, you'll come up with rude measures that come in very hard. All children, teachers and parents who have listened to the cabinet for weeks and heard that the schools had to stay open now come home from a very cold carnival. The school is closed, but you can go shopping with your kids. A business meeting with 20 adults can just go on, but twenty children in a class, that's not allowed anymore. Many people are frustrated by the way in which the cabinet tackles this crisis and by the laconical way in which measures are taken, such as Minister De Jonge, who says to Nieuwsuur that people simply shouldn't complain like this: "They should have seen the schools close a long time ago." But the truth is, of course, that you could have seen this coming as long as you didn't listen too much to this cabinet, because that has been proclaiming the opposite for weeks. Now it comes as a robbery for schools, but also for parents, who of course also have to work and then look at grandpa and grandma to look after the grandchildren next week. That could have prevented the cabinet from doing so by clarifying much earlier what this Chamber has asked for several times. Mr. Chairman. We do not see any strategy or scenarios that this cabinet is tackling the crisis and we do not see what choices are being made. The population is not taken into account, not in the figures that make the measures necessary, not in the consideration of why you can shop but cannot go to school, nor in the long-term perspective. Because all people hear is that temporary measures are constantly being extended. We do not see a clear plan for education either. Ventilation hasn't improved everywhere and there are no CO-meters in every room. My question is: how complicated is it now to ensure that a CO meter is purchased and hung for each local area? Why isn't every school getting the promised self-tests? The Prime Minister could not at the press conference promise that the schools would open again in January. My question to the cabinet is why the cabinet is not clear about this. Why doesn't the Cabinet say that dense schools are not acceptable as long as adults, for example, can go to the McDonalds, the HEMA and the café? How do commercial interests still relate to the right to education? Mr. Chairman. The Omikron variant is coming up fast. Between the nose and the lips, Minister De Jonge spoke yesterday at the press conference on emergency scenarios that would be ready. My question to the Minister is exactly what he meant by that. What are these scenarios and what measures is the Cabinet considering? Mr. Chairman. The best defense against omikron is vaccination and booster shot. Throughout the Netherlands people are now wondering why a rich and well-organized country like the Netherlands can't manage to get a shot at every 50-player this year. I have just talked to Mr Paternotte about this: why not a walk-in location, large locations in every municipality, where you can just go for that shot? Why wouldn't I? Finally, Mr President. The pressure on care is still immense, in hospitals, but also in home care, in general practitioners and in nursing homes. Every day we hear that carers, including many hospitals, cannot make the agreements with health insurance companies on the financing of care for the coming year. We are very concerned about this, because this creates great uncertainty for patients. If you're sick, you can't be sure that in the hospital around the corner your treatment can just take place next year. We really think this should stop. It's bizarre that this cabinet is still keeping the hospitals on the line for next year. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he would like to put another line through this zero line in his absence. We cannot let it happen that the hospitals will soon be without a budget and without proper agreements on the financing of care, while they have a huge amount of work to do. As far as we are concerned, it is also a symbol of the state of our healthcare system that we need to discuss competitive insurers, market forces and not get the most necessary care properly funded. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u71	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr Hijink quite rightly said that Mr Van Dissel indicated in the technical briefing that the boosters are the most important weapon to prevent people from entering the hospital through omikron. He also said it; that was at my question. Washing hands is now on the ground rules. In the meantime, we know that washing hands is incredibly sensible, but not so much about the spread of corona and that you might want to replace it with the basic measure of vaccination. Does Mr Hijink agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u73	Yes. I've seen Mr Paternotte's tweets. He would like the pictures on the speaker's seat to be adjusted. I'm fine with it all. I think it is crystal clear that vaccination and boosters are the most important thing to prevent a new wave of infections and a new wave of recordings. How the cabinet exactly does this with or without pictures. That's what it has to know for itself. At that level, I would prefer not to interfere, but I agree with Mr Paternotte that a shot is much more effective in the fight against the virus than washing your hands, however hygienic and sensible it is to wash your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you. Would you like to interrupt, Mrs. De Vries? No. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA. Go ahead, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mr. Chairman. A decisive lockdown: we asked for it weeks ago. Since then, we have repeated that message over and over again. It is unpopular, but it is necessary to prevent code black, to protect vulnerable people, to offer entrepreneurs a perspective and to keep schools open. Despite all the promises made by the cabinet, the schools are closing down. It's unbelievable. Children are again the victims of the too weak and too late intervention of this cabinet. The previous school lock-up has done a lot of damage, especially in special education. Moreover, the school for many children is unfortunately the safe place to go and extra vacation is not pleasant at all. The Prime Minister advises: don't let Grandma and Grandpa babysit, no play dates and no outings. A quarter of the parents, however, have already indicated that they will appeal to Grandpa and Grandma. Besides, children have to stay home, but adults can still go to the Ikea, the pub or the casino. And the Efteling is just open. How realistic is this advice then, I ask the cabinet. It is therefore no wonder that confidence in the Corona approach of the cabinet has fallen to 15%. Moreover, there is still no real plan for safe schools: ventilation is out of order and there are no decent mouth masks or other measures that can help. What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that we can actually open the schools after Christmas holidays? Or is there a risk of a longer closure? Mr. Chairman. There is an error in this pandemic: boosters have started too late, tests and source and contact research are out of order, entrepreneurs are in uncertainty for far too long and plans for extra ic-capacity have been put in the refrigerator. Furthermore, the excess mortality rate is really many times higher than in similar countries around us. Boostering is now finally accelerating, but it is too late. On what date have all the vulnerable and all 60-plussers been vaccinated? On what date exactly? What additional measures is the cabinet considering against omikron? Friday's supposed to be a meeting. This morning Mr Van Dissel sounded very alarming. On 1 December, the Chamber adopted the Omtzigt motion for a resolution on an independent study of over-death rates. The excess mortality rate has since risen to 1,250 people per week. That is twice as much as in similar countries. On their behalf, I would also like to ask some of the leading doctors and statisticians to carry out an independent study in the very short term so that we can better identify the excess mortality. Mr. Chairman. Soon a new cabinet will be on the border, with the same Prime Minister and the same four parties. I fear that the new policy will, unfortunately, be the same. You might want to look forward, but if you don't learn from the past, it'll be more of the same. How can you build trust if two years after the start of the pandemic you have not even managed to build a decent foundation? How credible is building if you hire the same architect and the same contractors? If you keep this up, you'll probably just build a house of cards and it'll collapse again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mrs Kuik is very critical of the decision to keep primary schools closed next week. I get that. Is she going to make the proposal today to keep the schools open?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u78	That's what I'm wrestling with, I'm telling you the truth. So I don't know yet. On the one hand, I think: I have advocated closing the non-essential shops, ensuring that the pubs are closed and taking tougher measures to prevent this momentum. I do not believe in all those stories of people saying: that does not cause any additional damage. It's like Christmas isn't important! There are school directors who state themselves: for some children really counts every week. At the same time, I also see that this curve gives an extra blow to the already high burden of care, that those infections are still far too high, and that we can't actually suffer anything. So I'm still struggling with that. I will determine that at a time in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, the new coalition agreement is being presented. It's a day dedicated to new plans and a new team. What I wonder is what this means for the decision-making process. What does this mean for the corona policy? Because society and the Chamber are longing for a new approach. They want a long-term strategy, or at least some kind of strategy. Over the past four and a half years, the cabinet has raised a problem after a problem. I saw a pattern where the cabinet systematically ignored the warnings from the Chamber. I saw a pattern where the cabinet didn't act until it really couldn't do otherwise. We saw a pattern of panic football. Let us be clear: the decision to close the primary schools at the very last minute would have been to avoid. The OMT already advised on 25 November to advance the Christmas holiday by a week, and the OMT reiterated this advice on 6 December. The Chamber, including my party, asked as early as December 1st to clarify quickly. But the cabinet decided to wait another two weeks. The social consequences of this delay are great, because teachers suddenly have to change the curriculum, parents have to arrange last-minute care and ask grandpa and grandma again, and children see their Christmas celebration go up in smoke. My question to the cabinet is simple: will the cabinet, and will we, in a new reign, see that the cabinet also takes warnings and questions from the Chamber seriously? And how do they plan to break this pattern of panic football? Mr. Chairman. In recent times I have heard some people say that the Chamber does not dare to make difficult decisions. I'm telling you the truth: it doesn't appeal to me. If it is necessary to extend this Christmas holiday for a week, we are prepared to do so, but on the condition that everything else has been tried to reduce the number of infections. Because although the schools have to close next week, you can still have a beer in the pub, and you can still spend a whole day in an amusement park. What does this say about our society, I ask through the President, because the constitutional right to education is opposed to entertainment. Last week we also saw that the purchase of a Rembrandt is more important than a decent support package for our creators in the cultural and creative sector. Public and sustainable interests are increasingly competing against short-term economic interests. Therefore my questions: why does the cabinet not decide to close amusement parks and catering for one week, but to close the schools? And does the cabinet think that with these measures it can prevent a quack lockdown? Because when a point comes to mind, GroenLinks prefers to take short and hard action, then again a quackwinter, this year and also in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u81	There is an interruption by Mrs Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld points out that she has a lot of trouble closing down the schools. I think we all do. What struck me was that Mrs Westerveld said that you can still drink that beer or eat at McDonald's. And she named that as: economic interests that prevail. But doesn't that have something to do with our own behavior, that we ourselves have trouble not being able to drink that beer? So I said in my speech: perhaps we should think a little more from the point of view of collectivity. Sometimes it hurts to have to turn away from something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u83	If I understand Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA correctly, she says: we all want to have a beer in the pub and that's why the pubs are still open?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u84	I do believe that this is also a factor and that this is a pressure that the cabinet experiences from society when it comes to the question of what measures it can or cannot take. I think we should have that debate together sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u85	What I find complicated about this decision and about other decisions that are being taken is that when it comes to entertainment for adults, including indeed sitting in the pub, it is now snowing under when it comes to the importance for children to receive education. Why do I think that's intense? This has to do with the fact that we all know that children who are in vocational education, children who are on VMBO, have a greater learning disadvantage than children who are on HAVO and VWO. And we also know what this does to young people, and we know the consequences. That is why I find the measures and the priorities of these measures very complex to explain, also because this decision has been taken so last minute. Several opposition parties and the coalition said two weeks ago: if these schools are to be closed, indicate them now and do not decide just a few days in advance. And we see that this has just been decided a few days in advance. I do not think that the cabinet takes the sector seriously enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u86	Can I conclude, then, that Mrs Westerveld says: education is a fundamental right in which it is a public interest to organise it properly, and then we should dare to enter into the debate with each other that we might leave other things as a society for that? There are no easy choices left. It is a constant balance between economic and social interests, between the elderly, young people and the middle groups. So should we not have a much longer debate of principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u87	I have also made the point in previous debates that there are scientific studies and that there are political considerations. First of all, I would like to have much more insight. We have also asked for this in what is and is not working now. I mention, for example, the decision to stop exercising after 5 p.m. Does that work now or not? That is what we discussed in the previous debate. Then, with all these considerations in hand, we must make the political considerations here. What is so difficult about this is that these political considerations are being made and announced in the press conference and that we in the Chamber can then tell us what we think. This de facto means that the political decision-making process in this House can hardly be made, because it has already been decided and has already been communicated to everyone. I am very much in favour of having this fundamental debate with each other and of having the discussion here about what is working and what is not, and of bringing together the different opinions to make a decision on that basis. That is why we need to redesign this decision-making process. In fact, I have made several proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u88	This is more about the organisation of how we do the debates, as Mrs Westerveld points out. I have never felt constrained to say here on behalf of the CDA what we think of proposals from the cabinet, just as we do with legislative proposals and other points that are first brought out by the cabinet. But I think that we are going to have that debate about how we are going to organise it with each other in the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u89	We do not agree on this, because it has nothing to do with the order in which we organise business. It has to do with political decision-making in this place. The way it is organized now does not mean that we are here in this house exchanging different interests, ideas and underlying arguments, because it has already been decided. That is what I think the big problem is, and that does not mean that we can make the right balance. That is what I find complicated about the way the process is organized, because that affects our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u90	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a point about the omikron variant. We don't know so much about that yet, but what we do know is not reassuring. That variant is more contagious and the built-up protection protects us less from it. Yesterday, the World Health Organisation sounded a loud and clear alarm and literally states that only using vaccines will not help any country out of this crisis. Mr. Chairman. Boostering is very important. That was also apparent from the technical briefing this morning. Please don't let us bet on one horse again, I'll tell the cabinet. That's why I have the following questions. What is the Cabinet going to do to further increase this willingness to test? Is the cabinet prepared to send every Dutchman a self-test for Christmas home, so that we ask people for a Christmas test? And is the cabinet prepared to make FFP2 mouthpieces available to visitors in nursing homes and disability care institutions? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to know exactly what happened to the rampage plan for the ic of the National Coordination Centre for Patients Spread. Why was the plan rejected to expand the ic capacity by 100 places? What happened here? My group wants to have access to all correspondence on this matter. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u92	You're at the end of your speech, aren't you? I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66 for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u93	I understand the criticism of the cabinet on many points. I think that's right, too. I think it's important that we keep looking at ourselves. Last August, Mrs Westerveld tabled a motion saying that we absolutely should not start, that we should not prepare for that booster. I wonder how she looks back on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u94	Indeed, last August, we tabled a motion, following the example of the World Health Organisation, which states: let us first ensure that in the rest of the world at least the care staff and the weakest people in society can be pricked before we start the booster campaign here in all the rich Western countries. I still support that, because I think it is a mistake that all the rich Western countries should start a comprehensive booster campaign and that we should not at the same time use the suspension of patents so that other countries too can increase production capacity and ensure that the rest of the world also has access to vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mr Paternotte's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u96	I totally agree with Mrs Westerveld on those patents. It is true that there must be a waver on that so that production in Africa can rise. Does Mrs Westerveld say that she still supports this motion and that she is therefore actually against the booster campaign and against inviting all adults to the Netherlands? That's the logical conclusion, isn't it? There is still a shortage of shots in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u97	No, I'm not saying that, even with the knowledge of today. Of course, we know a lot more now, including about boosters. We know much better that the effectiveness of vaccination decreases. So that is knowledge that we do have now and that we had less in September or August when we tabled that motion. So I am sure that we will set up a booster campaign in the Netherlands. Let's start with the most vulnerable and the elderly. Let us be careful not to put a third, fourth or fifth prick in the Netherlands and in other rich countries, while at the same time not using access to vaccines for all other countries. That's what's happening now. Far too little is being devoted to increasing production capacity. Rich Western countries do not cooperate at all to ensure that patents are temporarily suspended. I don't see any movement in that yet. Many wealthy Western countries have not yet fulfilled promised commitments to donate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u98	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party. Then we'll suspend until 2:00 p.m., including a lunch break. People may also want to look at the presentation of the final report of the informers, which will start at 1.30 p.m. But first we're going to listen to Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands remains in lockdown again because of the great concerns about the omikron variant and the persistent pressure on care. The OMT is coming back this Friday with a new advice. There may then be an increase in the measures. Then why doesn't the cabinet intervene as a precaution already? For the past year, we have seen that the cabinet has acted too late. The Party for Animals really doesn't understand that much too late has been decided to advance the Christmas holiday for primary schools. Many have indicated that today. What a hard time for children, parents and teachers! We are deeply concerned about the consequences of this extended Christmas holiday, in particular the harmful effects on children's development. There was an OMT's advice three weeks ago. Two weeks ago, the Chamber called for that decision to be made in time so that schools and parents could prepare themselves for it. All the arguments and scenarios were already on the table. Now the schools close and, as many have indicated, the IKEA and amusement parks remain open and you can still go to the McDonald's during the day. The support for the corona policy has fallen to a low point. My group has no difficulty understanding why that is. Mr. Chairman. We too would like to say something about these booster vaccinations. The campaign in itself is being speeded up at last! But why didn't you do it until now? Why hasn't it been done before? Why isn't it possible to give all those 60-plussers a booster before Christmas? It is, of course, good to hear that the Minister is going to find out what went wrong with the advice of the Health Council. That is what we are really asking ourselves. The turnout for the booster shot is still far too low at the moment. How is the Minister going to convince people to get that third shot? Is the Behaviour Unit of the RIVM invited to the Catshuis this time to advise on this, for example? Behavioural scientists have been saying it for a long time: don't put groups away as scapegoats! Will the Minister finally follow this advice? As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this means, for example, that 2G goes into the trash and that there will be no vaccination obligation. Mr. Chairman. The current cabinet has so far shown quite easily to put fundamental rights aside to push its own plans through. Even when experts cut the government's support over 2G.. a beer sheet calculation and an insult to science, so it is called this week... there is still no sign of reflection to be seen. This is a real cause for concern for the Animals, especially since the Netherlands appears to be involved in a design of a European digital identity card as a successor to that current coronapas. An ID card with which citizens can be closely monitored. The Party for Animals has warned of this from the beginning. The QR code would be temporary, but no end date was attached to it. Sneakingly, more and more of our privacy issues are being lifted. What does this Minister think of the European Commission's plans? Is it true that the Netherlands is so closely involved in this? If so, how does that relate to the promise that the DCC and the corona certificate would be temporary? Mr. Chairman. Finally, travel. What is the situation with these additional measures to slow down the import of new virus variants, such as a test obligation upon arrival? Is the Minister prepared to take independent measures for the Netherlands if, for example, Europe does not give home? And what about the progress of my motion for a playbook at Schiphol Airport two weeks ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u101	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I am now the first to give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And first of all, of course, the congratulations to you, now that you have just received the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr. Chairman. The rapid advance of the omikron variant and the uncertainty surrounding it bring us into a new phase. The extension of the measures is therefore necessary, however painful, just before the holidays. The closing of schools is hard for the Christian Union Group, because the week before the Christmas holidays there is also, frankly, one that you can give every child at school. That joy in your class, the preparation of a Christmas celebration or the making of all kinds of beautiful works: I think we all remember it, as well as looking back at the year with your classmates. They've been through so much. It's not just math and language, it's just that that's forming for a child. After the past year, we know that closing the schools has a price. That is why my group had a great deal of sympathy for keeping it open in recent weeks. The omikron variant and the fact that children have not been vaccinated, which makes perfect sense, can result in an acceleration in the number of infections. That is why we understand, given the uncertainty, that the schools are now closing, despite the inconvenience that this gives. We hope, of course, that it will not be necessary anymore, but the epidemic and the necessary measures are always disappointing. That is precisely why my group chairman has long been calling for the development of the scenarios of the WRR and a long-term policy. I would like to thank the Minister for outlining the approach and the planning in the letter, but I do agree with the earlier questions of colleagues in order to do so more quickly where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u105	Thank you. The last interruption of Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u106	It's about the school lockdown, of course. Next week is a very special week for Christian education, with the Christmas celebration and all the festivities around it. I would like to ask Mrs Bikker about Mrs Patricia Bruijning's research, a Dutch study last week, which says that two out of three Dutch children have had corona. We also heard last night in Nieuwsuur about research that indicates that if you have had corona, the number of antibodies remains at levels much longer than among vaccinees. I also mention research by Hart van Nederland, which shows that 27% of parents are going to call on grandparents. Does the Christian Union still think it is a sensible idea? Mr Van Dissel said this morning that it was not really the intention of his intention that everything should fall into the water. Does the Christian Union still think that closing the schools can contribute next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u107	I was just saying, this omikron variant gives us a new uncertainty. We don't know exactly. We know that children can also be containable for infection with this variant. I'm a mother, and I see that happening in primary schools, including those of our children. Then I understand, despite the pain I've just outlined. I understand very well that the cabinet has tried to keep the schools open for as long as possible. I would like to encourage the cabinet, particularly in response to all the efforts of the PVV Group on this point, to continue with the funding scheme for ventilation. This could help schools. We must also continue if there are any new developments. For example, we saw devices in Staphorst that helped enormously in those classrooms. Well, that's good. I want you to investigate that further. If it works, make sure that more schools can make effective use of it, even towards the future. I also believe that this is in line with the long-term policy that I have asked the cabinet for. If it is possible, faster is good, but in such a way that schools are actually helped, and ultimately also the students and the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u108	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u109	The booster campaign is being greatly accelerated. That's very necessary. G.D.D.s are doing everything they can. First of all, I would like to say to them: how good, thank you very much. Additional staff will be recruited as a matter of urgency. After temporary contracts, the GGD may offer a fixed contract and is compensated for additional costs. I still read that the GGDs have a lot of administration and therefore say: we do not accept people who can work with us for less than sixteen hours. I ask the Minister: is there really no other way? The first results from the UK give concern about the effectiveness of AstraZeneca in the omikron variant. This underlines the importance of boosters, I would also like to say to the people at home. Please, if you're allowed to sign up, do so. Is there any rapid additional research on the effectiveness of the different vaccines on the omicron variant, and can the Minister report on them if he has those studies, which may also be in an international context, or could have an impact on the order in the booster campaign? Many elderly people are waiting for an invitation on paper, while others who are younger are already calling. Are there any possible acceleration options? Does the Minister, in consultation with the ANBO, see examples of things that could lead to acceleration for this vulnerable group? Mr. Chairman. You have heard a lot about the 30 vulnerable neighbourhoods where it is necessary to use tests, information and punctures because the vaccination rate there is often still around 30%. As far as I am concerned, that is still too slow. One fixed location is far from always present, but can the Minister at least ensure that where there is a fixed location, people who come for a first or second shot or are not sent away for a booster because only one of the reasons at that time is the valid reason? I like to hear that. I would really like to ask the Minister to give the GGDs more freedom, so that anyone who wants to get a shot there will also get it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two more points. At the end of the summer holidays everyone could order two free tests for a safe start after the summer. At what point does the Minister consider that useful after the holidays and would he consider that? What does the cabinet see in population tests, the entire population through the test street to detect as many infections as possible? What possibilities does the Minister see, and would this not be a very good option for a new variant? Mr. Chairman. At previous times I have already indicated that young people suffer greatly from this corona time; it is psychologically heavy. Last year the social and mental welfare package was designed around this time. Is a new package needed in view of the extended lockdown measures? I would like to hear if the Minister would like to explore this and take results and lessons from last year's package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u110	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After almost two years, it is high time to take stock of this so-called corona pandemic. Do you remember? After two shots, we'd be free again. On 1 November, all measures would be lifted. September 13th Hugo de Jonge tweeted: "The key to our freedom is vaccination." Those who thought we'd be in a lockdown by the end of the year were called wappies. But what about our freedom? Not good, not bad, not bad. We are back in a strict lockdown, just like a year ago, but with one important difference: our freedom has become a privilege. Only those who can show a QR code are entitled to their freedom. Without a coronapas one can no longer travel, to a restaurant and later even not to work. In order to maintain that freedom, we need to be regularly injected, especially when 2G is introduced later. On 1 February, the corona passport is only valid if you have a booster shot. These were all conspiracy theories a year ago, but they are now conspiracy facts. Even the vaccination obligation is no longer excluded. With the introduction of a corona pass, Article 1 of our Constitution has been de facto repealed. Article 7, freedom of expression, is also dying. "A doctor who is critical of the guidelines must be spit on his cardigan and prosecuted by the Inspection and Disciplinary Regulations," said the Minister. Nor is Article 11 of our Constitution, the freedom of body, worth anything to this government. In fact, at the press conference yesterday, this minister threatened millions of Dutch people when he said: "I do not attach so terribly to your right to freedom to say no to vaccination, I do not accept that." That is the same minister who said earlier this year: "Voluntary is voluntary, so voluntary is not secretly compulsory, but then via another route." And: "The vaccine should not become mandatory, nor will there be any benefits for people who have used a vaccine." And why? Why have our fundamental freedoms become privileges? Why have our fundamental rights disappeared? The answer: because of a virus that is completely comparable to a regular seasonal flu with a mortality rate of 0.15%. In short, based on a gigantic, global scam that has no match. That is why we are slowly and surely losing all our freedoms and fundamental rights and are being forced on us by an experimental vaccine, the side effects of which are becoming increasingly apparent. With 85%, if we can believe the government, the over-death rate is now three times, I repeat: three times! This is as big as last year's. You can see it here in the CBS figures: the red line goes up like a rocket. Funeral organizations need to place extra cooling rooms. We understand from a forensic detective that forensics have to do the same because of the huge number of fatal accidents lately. One athlete after another is suddenly affected by heart failure. How is this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u112	The last interruption by Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u113	I can't imagine this nonsense being told back in the Chamber. People's backs are told that corona is an innocent flu and that mortality rates are not much higher. I would like to remind Mr Van Houwelingen once again that we have never had to take a single measure for flu in order to have this kind of mortality rate, and that we have to lock up the whole country every time for corona in order to keep it under control. I would be delighted if Mr Van Houwelingen would stick to the facts and not call on people to harm their own health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u114	Thank you for your question. We are sticking to the facts, as you know and as has been said repeatedly. Mr Van Dissel and others have also admitted that the mortality rate is 0.15%. That's what Greek research shows. That's not even controversial. That's the IFR, the death rate for corona. And that's similar to the flu. It's even getting milder. It is not yet certain, as Mr Van Dissel said this morning, but everything seems so far that the omikron variant is even milder. You say I'm not stating facts, but I think these are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u115	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u116	Perhaps it has something to do with Pfizer's own findings in the documentation that had to be provided to the US health authorities. This shows that for every coronadode that saves the vaccine in the short term, four more people die from heart failure. Maybe this explains the enormous excess mortality. Therefore, Japan may have recently indicated that there should be absolutely no vaccination constraint and that an informed choice is essential before a vaccine can be administered. And why on earth should we give such an experimental vaccine to our children, who are not themselves at risk? This, according to many experts dangerous and experimental, imposing vaccine on the population and possibly even making it compulsory, is downright criminal. This government is responsible for the destruction of our society, for the hostage and attack on the health of millions of Dutch people and for the violation of our fundamental rights. A corona regime that is maintained thanks to the unified mass media, thanks to the hypnotized judiciary, who refuses to speak up and thanks to collaborator universities who look away. On the other hand, we reject this regime in the name of freedom, reason and justice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u117	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u118	Perhaps not so much a question, but I would like to draw attention to what is happening here, to the questions raised rhetorically and not answered and to the accusations that are being made without foundation. I would have preferred Forum to have also taken into account the problems of care, the overload of care, the number of measures we need to take now and how it affects the people in the country, but also the entrepreneurs. I find it really reprehensible that all this is being brought forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u119	Thank you for your question. It's always nice when you get a question and people say what's wrong with your argument. I haven't heard that so much, but I'm going into your point of concern. We may even be able to find each other there, because we also believe that there is a huge problem of care. That's what we've been thinking for a year and a half. It's just that nothing is being done to scale up the capacity. We read again today in the Volkskrant that a plan to introduce 100 extra ic-beds into healthcare has been rejected. So, yeah, there's a big problem. We have been calling for this for a year and a half. That's what we're agreed on; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thank you. There is a personal fact of Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Houwelingen's group chairman tweeted last week that, because I am in favour of booster vaccination, I am responsible for more deaths. I would like to see this as a personal fact. I do not think the vaccines are working very well, but they are still preventing hospitalisation, and that is why we are calling for booster vaccination. In my opinion, that doesn't lead to more deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u122	Thank you, Mrs Agema. We will also record this in the Acts. I would like to thank you and give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u123	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that threats that are sent to, among others, the Minister here, but also to scientists such as Marion Koopmans or to general practitioners such as Dr. Leenstra, are completely unacceptable. Differences of opinion fit into a democracy, threats do not. Having said that, it is fortunately only a small part of our country. Most people, by far the majority, are good, in line with Mr Brenninkmeijer's statement. That remains above water in this pandemic. It's not just the vaccination rate that shows that. 85.5% of people aged 18 and over are fully vaccinated. But it also emerged that people were going to impose measures, such as fewer people on the floor and fewer visits, even before new measures were announced. With this in mind, as far as Volt is concerned, the language must be different. Texts used from the cabinet but also the RIVM, such as "become despondent from this virus," but also "are this pandemic done" and "we have had enough of it," do not contribute to the reality that this virus will be among us for many years to come. We can't give up now. Words matter and now, more than ever, honest and encouraging words are in place. That is why we as Volt also believe that under the name c'est le ton qui fait la musique.. or in plain Dutch: the tone makes the music... should be used to further increase the vaccination rate. As fantastic as these 85.5% are fully vaccinated, we need to reach at least 95%, and we can do that. We have that degree for mumps, measles, ruffled dog, so it must also be feasible for corona. However, we must make greater efforts to inform and remove doubts. The vaccination rate is lower in neighbourhoods where public confidence is lower, neighborhoods which, for example, have reasons for distrust of the government due to the premium affair. I would therefore prefer to see from Volt that we use the root for these people: not threatening or polarizing language, but understanding and compassion. An open and honest conversation. Because this pandemic is going to take years, and that's why we need each other all the more to do this together. Remember? "Only together can we control corona." That's why I'd like a response from the Minister. If we then use the stick, I want it to be used against those who spread disinformation on the social media that provide these virus deniers with a platform, and I want the social media to be more involved. I would also like a response from the Minister. But I just want to get back to the people who are good. They now suck, for example, at things like the booster that comes off the ground. I asked Mr Van Dissel a few hours ago and he did not recognize my mother's reality. It is 66 years old and wants this booster, but it is only 30 December that it will have its turn in Alphen aan den Rijn. She doesn't have a license and can't get there unless my sister or I drive her, what we're gonna do. It will only be fully protected in mid-January. My mother is not unique. In the few hours since I asked this question this morning, I've received a dozen e-mails from people who recognize this. And that, in my view, is one of the reasons why confidence in the corona policy has fallen to a poor 16%. We lose confidence because there is a reality in The Hague, a reality of schedules and planning that does not correspond to the real reality of people struggling to adapt over and over again. That's what people are mostly tired of, I guess. The same applies to the closure of schools. Too late cut the knot and then advise that Grandpa and Grandma should not be careful. In my case, it's that same mother of 66 that day in, day out babysitting my child. And I may be unique that my mother looks after my little boy every day, but most people save the rush of their lives only by caring for grandparents. So the real reality again is not in keeping with the reality of The Hague. I actually had a lot more lyrics. I'll get through it soon. I can't stop wondering about the FFP2 masks. And then vaccinate the world, because as long as the world isn't safe, we're not safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u124	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mr. Chairman. Where there are mountains, there are valleys. The current peak of hospitalisations is followed by a gradual flattening of the figures. Well, it looks like it's a lucky bet. Because we know that peaks and declines alternate, we need measures that fit into a long-term policy. In the last Corona debate 2021, I note that as a Chamber, we have still not discussed the long term. This is a shortcoming. It is time to say goodbye to measures taken in the panic of the day, based on the peak of the week. To impose top-down measures does not work. It's about behavior. It's about customization. A culture, for example, in which it is self-evident to have you tested for complaints does more than lock up children at home. Who's gonna babysit, anyway? That's Grandpa and Grandma. What does strike me as a promising approach is tailor-made source and contact research. For a month now, the GGD's have been carrying out BCO in a different way. In this way, depending on the situation, they will be given more space to act more alertly. Can the Minister tell us more about the perspective of deploying a tailor-made BCO approach? The developments surrounding the coronavirus have become a story of variants that follow each other. It was delta and now it's omikron. Next year, I'm sure it'll be pi, ro and sigma. Over omikron it is already known that this variant goes around quickly. Unfortunately, we still don't know enough. The vaccinations seem less effective against infection. It is also very worrying that AstraZeneca does not seem to offer protection. What scenarios has the government made about how to deal with the various uncertainties? During the technical briefing it emerged that the role of vaccinations and boosters remains important even in the omikron era. My group is getting a lot of signals about people who have not been vaccinated so far, but who are considering the Valneva vaccine. At the beginning of December, Kamerbreed passed a motion on protein vaccines. A week later, the Minister replied to written questions from the Chamber about progress. I would like to ask for a more active attitude from the Minister. The Chamber has said with conviction: "Minister, do something. Take action." Yet there is a retreating movement. Why? After all, the Chamber did not ask to wait for the EEA, the Health Council or Brussels to act. I would like to get a commitment from the Minister that he is going to carry out the motion on protein vaccines, active. While we are talking about the active implementation of motions, I would like to ask the question that the Minister knew would come: what is the state of play regarding the application of serological tests for the CTB? In what period can we expect the Swiss model to be applied? Finally, Mr President. We see that corona policy continues to occupy society. As the measures continue, relations are likely to polarise. The number of protests is increasing. The use of force is also increasing. That's sad to see. The use of violence, including verbal violence, is reprehensible and unacceptable. I can only assume that we are moving away from this House-wide. At the same time, we cannot close our eyes to an undercurrent of discontent and misunderstanding, because it exists and we cannot look away from it. There is an important task for the cabinet to act in a binding manner, so that it does not become a catalyst of discontent. JA21 expects an involved minister, who extends his hand to those who disagree. This achieves more than brutal words and goes in with a stretched leg. If the Minister looks back at the end of the year, are there times when he says: here I put my hand in my own bosom, that could have been wiser, that should have been better, and we are going to do that differently? It's advent. This period of repentance and rest is a great opportunity for the Minister to settle down last year. It is also a great opportunity for us, for all Dutch people, to see how we can contribute to a way out of the corona crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u126	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u127	"Corona stays among us and we'll have to learn to live with the virus." It is more than right that Minister De Jonge spoke these words yesterday during the press conference. The situation can make us despondent. The approach for this autumn has failed and there is no longer a plan. The number of infections is high, the confidence in the policy is low and the new omikron variant spreads rapidly. Vaccines and transitive infections do not appear to be effective against infection with this variant. My first question to the cabinet is: what does this mean for the corona pass system? Mr. Chairman. The acceleration of the booster campaign and the sudden closure of primary schools should save us now. But the question is, of course, whether this is the best response. I thought, "We have two schoolmasters in V-K now, or former schoolmasters, I have to say. Maybe they can reflect on why they didn't want to close the schools first, even though it made sense, and now they do. I would like to hear some reflection on that at the end of the year and just before all those school leaders and schoolteachers and girls are there. I do miss the Superintendent Rutte in trade-K today, but that aside. I can see why it is, but I just wanted to remind you of it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the mayors in our country. Yesterday, these mayors called for a broad social dialogue aimed at learning to live together with the coronavirus. Let me be very clear here: the SGP strongly supports this call. We need to find another way to deal with this crisis: less volatile and less panicky. After 40 press conferences we can see that there is inflation and sleazyness. The Breda mayor Paul Depla rightly said: "Rutte and De Jonge point out the world for a moment and then announce new measures." I'm leaving out a little bit now. Depla then says: "And that makes the population apathetic; people start to think: corona is no longer my problem, but that of the government." I think we should avoid that. Corona will stay with us longer. We must jointly take measures which are effective and which can be sustained for a long time. My next question to the cabinet is therefore: to what extent are municipalities, civil society organisations, etc. challenged to come up with measures in their own way? I've suggested investing local Cathouse sessions before. That is why I miss the Prime Minister a little bit, but perhaps one of the ministers could comment on that. The sessions were fully committed. I would therefore very much like to hear whether it is being worked on. We were going to be contacted, but that has not yet happened. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has also often asked for the medical capacity to be scaled up. A reconstruction in the Volkskrant showed that the Minister has ignored an offer for almost 100 ic-places. I can't explain that, but I'm assuming the Minister can. I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. Well, then I'm gonna come to the school lockdown. It evokes a lot of emotions. For many schools, and also for many parents, it is unworkable for this to be communicated so shortly in advance. The SGP therefore reiterates its call for educational institutions to be allowed to take sensible measures and apply tailor-made measures. In any case, as far as we are concerned, there must be an exception for special education and special primary education. And improving air purification in schools must be faster and better; that has already been appointed by Mrs Agema. We also need more money to improve air purification. Does the Cabinet work on this? And what can we learn from the good experiences in schools in Staphorst? Mr President, all in all: despondency can come upon us. But that's not new in this world, of course. Long ago, the biblical king David was also in a hopeless situation. But David wasn't the type to sit on his hands. Surrounded by all those worries he closed the song that can be read in Psalm 27. He begins with: "The Lord is my light and my salvation, for whom should I fear? The Lord is my life force, for whom should I be afraid?" I sincerely wish the Cabinet and all of us that confidence. And if there is some time left in this Advent time or at Christmas, perhaps meditating on the occasion of Psalm 27 is a very nice activity. It also helps us to deal with this situation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u128	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Corona stays between us; that's one thing that's for sure. The way you handle it can contain three elements: you can freeze, you can flee and you can fight back. With stiffening, i.e. not doing anything by panic or fear, you can't do anything at all. Flights and diving have been tried by the Cabinet since the beginning of this crisis. Think of the freedom-limiting measures such as curfew, lockdowns, and now for the umpteenth time the early closure of education. We have already seen the long-term results of such flight measures. No matter how hard we run, the virus will eventually catch up with us again, with all the harmful consequences. For example, there is already an average learning disadvantage of about six weeks in primary education due to previous school closures and home education. If the parents are low-educated, the learning disadvantage in children is sometimes twice as great as in children of highly-educated parents. Mr. Chairman. So what we really need to do is fight back. Why didn't the Ministry work on scaling up the ic capacity when that possibility was available in September? Why not make haste with the boostering of the most vulnerable on a voluntary basis and of anyone who wants to? Perhaps the most important thing for the longer term is the evening lockdown for the sports facilities. It must be done with the discouraging policy on sports. Mr. Chairman. As early as 2012, physical inactivity was the fourth largest cause of death in the world. Sports activity has only deteriorated since the corona crisis. More than half of the Dutch people started to exercise less in 2020 or even quit sports as a result of the corona crisis. In total, there were 149 million minutes of movement less a week. Research shows that the corona crisis in the same year cost as many as 46,000 healthy years of life. That's unbelievable when you consider that we're fighting a health crisis. This is what the health damage of the past year will be like. Because, Mr. Chairman, even the night lockdown is leaving all its tracks now. Sports dome NOC*NSF has found that more than a quarter of the Dutch less or not at all sport due to the current evening lockdown. These are very disturbing figures. Let's not run from the virus anymore. Let's fight back. As the late sports legend Johan Cruijff said, if you can't win, you have to make sure you don't lose. Mr President, concluding. This is perhaps the last debate with Hugo de Jonge on the corona policy. And if it isn't, some people are happy to say goodbye twice. It usually includes a thank-you note. But should we thank him for the crisis approach? In that he failed fatally. People's freedom is restricted, entrepreneurs are in uncertainty, young people are burning out. Should we thank him for the unambiguous communication? Well, there are countless examples of this minister saying so one time, sister and the other time, for example, about vaccination. Vaccination would always be voluntary and you would never have to prove you've been vaccinated. Should we thank him for the excellent test policy? Well, that didn't go too well either. Should we thank him for curfew? Our best modelers in the world had predicted that it would lead to 10% fewer infections. But that turned out not to be true after all. Should we thank him for the source and contact research? That went all wrong, too. Should we thank him for the vaccination strategy? At the beginning, the Netherlands was at the bottom of the list. The vaccination started late and when the vaccination started, there would be no urge, but we now see that it is in practice. Should we thank him for the booster campaign? Besides, we're behind. Should we thank him for the QR society and the coronapas? Nor, see the enormous division in society. Then you wonder, what are we supposed to thank him for? Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear. Even though I have no doubt about the commitment of this Minister, he has made many hours, we have not been able to see much of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u130	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u131	Yet ministers who leave deserve a thank you. Even if I don't know what for, Hugo, thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u132	Thank you. It is: the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Confidence in corona policy and in politics has fallen to a low point. People have little faith in the slow and miraculous policies, but also in the power of parliament. That is all understandable and right, but it is extremely worrying. Just now that omikron is grasping, it is crucial that people are given and/or kept in the corona measures and comply with them. Mr. Chairman. This morning, Mr Van Dissel said to Mr Paternotte that vaccination should also be in line with basic measures. Mr Van Dissel emphasized the importance of vaccination. That is why it is so important that anyone who has not been vaccinated should be allowed to do so and that the vaccinees should all get their booster shot. As early as June, I asked the Minister to launch a booster campaign immediately after the summer. The Health Council and the Minister did not consider that necessary in September, but Mr Paternotte's and myself's adopted motion has accelerated the booster campaign by three weeks. Fortunately, with Omikron, the Minister now sees the need to speed up the booster process even more. The question is whether the delay can then still be overtaken in good time. The Minister says that all 60-plusers can be vaccinated before the end of the year, but, like my colleagues, I get emails from people saying that if they already get the GGD, they can only end up in January. My question to the Minister is: how is this possible? Or did the Minister mean that by January all 60-plussers were invited instead of vaccinated? Mr. Chairman. 10% of vaccinees have doubts about taking the booster. What measures does the Minister take to remove these doubts? If it is not firmly deployed now, then the doubt will only increase with each booster round. The day before yesterday it appeared that instead of the GGD general practitioners are being used to give non-mobile home residents and residents of health care institutions without medical service the booster shot. The National Family Doctors Association has indicated to ask its supporters to help, but general practitioners have said before that their priority is the continuity of their care. Can the Minister indicate what arrangements have been made with the LHV on which part of the booster campaign is carried out by the general practitioners? Is it true that there are problems experienced by the general practitioners in the registration process? In the meantime, I understand that the EEA has approved the Janssen vaccine as a booster shot. There are about 0.5 million Janssen vaccines on the shelf. Will they be deployed immediately? Is the Minister aware of the studies on heterologist boosters? The effectiveness of heterologist boosters appears to be very high, especially in the mix of vector and mRNA vaccines. Is the Minister going to use this as a strategy for the booster campaign? Mr. Chairman. The pressure on intensive care is and will remain high and will not decrease in the coming years due to the current healthcare infarction. The absenteeism and the outflow of ic nurses are high, because they can no longer cope with the hopelessness of the work. Of the ic nurses that are pouring out, 60% even leave the whole care. It is important that, in addition to working on many new influxes, we also improve the career perspective within the walls of the hospital to prevent emptying and to improve mental and physical health. This can be done, for example, by organising the acute axis in the hospital differently. Nurses should be able to switch functions more easily within the acute axis of PACU, SEH and ic. The PACU is the place where ic nurses can exercise their expertise, but which has a different load. This way, exiters can be saved and re-enterers can be attracted. This makes it possible to create 350 to 450 PACU beds in the short to medium term. Additional PACU beds provide allocated capacity for surgical patients, reducing the load on the ic and helping more people. With all the delayed operations, I think that's very urgent. Is the Minister prepared to explore this in consultation with the Dutch Association for Anesthesiology? Finally, Mr President. Corona is no longer epidemic, but endemic. We're past the acute phase. That is why I asked for a medium- and long-term strategy before the summer. He'll be there in the end next year. I wish us all more peace, consistency and perspective in the Corona policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u134	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u135	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. I will start with a quote from page 1 of the just presented coalition agreement: "We want to focus on concrete improvements in people's lives. The Dutch want the government to be reliable and deliver. Then citizens will have the space to, together with family, friends, colleagues and volunteers, give meaning to their lives in an association in the neighbourhood. This is a society in which the government enables people to take the lead together." It's a nice quote. It's just unfortunate that the same government will soon want to exclude people who don't have a QR code from society. It is also a pity that the division in the Netherlands has never been so great and that this division has been driven and facilitated by the same government. Last night, the outgoing minister's aggressive tone scared me when he said, "Are you so horrible about your right, your freedom to say no to vaccination? I'm not gonna accept that." I sincerely wonder why the outgoing minister felt it necessary to use this muscle language in this way, especially since research has shown that most people do not even so much rely on their right, but feel pressured or simply afraid of any side effects. Why didn't the outgoing minister just keep track of what he said afterwards: "Protect yourself, protect each other and protect the freedom we have to regain on the virus." I think that would have been much more effective. How does the outgoing minister look at that? And what is the Cabinet going to do to reconnect people? Only 16% of people have confidence in the corona approach. This is due to the lack of clear targets, to the ad hoc decisions and to the illogical nature of many measures. It does not make sense to ban sports in association or in a gym after 5 p.m. The crowds concentrate on other hours and that is not the intention, as Mr Van Dissel said this morning. Can the Minister explain to me again the logic of this measure? And then the vaccination of 5- to 11-year-olds. Healthy children should be pricked to protect grandmother and grandpa, a shot whose long-term effects are not yet known in terms of side effects, a shot that, especially with the uncertainty about omikron, may not offer 100% protection at all, a shot to protect grandmother and grandmother, who in most cases have already been pricked and boosted twice. In its opinion, the Health Council stated that vaccination of 5- to 11-year-olds should not require vaccination. The outgoing minister said in the same breath: "Olders obviously have free choice, but it is wise to do so. This way you can prevent school closures and other restrictive measures." If this is not a vaccination urge, then I wonder what the outgoing minister does mean by vaccination urge. And now, despite the promise not to, it is decided at the last minute that primary schools close a week before the holiday. Why hasn't this just been decided before, when the Chamber asked for clarity and when the OMT already advised it? Why do parents get thrown in front of the bus all of a sudden? Finally, I would like to return to the quote from the coalition agreement with which I started. So shortly before Christmas I am curious how the outgoing minister looks back on this year, with the central question: how does he himself feel about the Netherlands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u136	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During my previous contribution to the corona debate, I shared my despondency. I was despondent about the hopeless situation and the way in which we are holding this debate together, despondent about the constant lack of substance, about the fact that the Chamber is allowed to play its part here over interventions in the margins, with major consequences for many, while the fundamental choices and inhumane consequences remain undisputed. At yesterday's press conference, too, the pain and suffering of so many remained unnamed and unspoken. The CBS shows that in June of this year more than 31,000 people died as a result of this pandemic. It is estimated that this number has now risen to some between 36 000 and 40,000. Between 36,000 and 40,000 people! This is similar to the number of people in a large stadium, at a festival or at the huge climate march of several months ago. That harsh reality is the mirror that we here as Chambers have to think of. That's the price this cabinet was willing to pay. In fact, recent Wob documents show that 500,000 deaths could be an acceptable consequence of keeping our economy running. The same economy has performed so fantasticly in recent years, but it has not been able to prevent the number of homeless people from rising, as well as the number of children growing up in poverty, to name but a few. As long as the rich get richer, their knights will say that the economy is doing well. And that while people are locked up, getting sick and dying. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the debate in society is slowly but surely blowing up. KPMG came up with a report. Nieuwsuur made a broadcast about this and last Sunday historian Mathieu Segers in Buitenhof put the finger exactly on the sore spot. Mr. Chairman. These missionary leaders lack values, vision and strength, strength. It's getting harder to deny. Our motion, which was wiped off the table last summer and rejected by the entire Chamber, is now, fortunately, receiving more and more support. I hope that we can continue that line and continue to increase the pressure. Yes, we can wait for a parliamentary survey. Demissionary Prime Minister Rutte shunned that thought. We can wait until we've passed five, six or seven waves and be ready for booster number so much. We can wait until the letters from the Greek alphabet are made up of new variants. Or we can draw a line and continue to say that the path is not worthy of human dignity, that public health is not adequately protected, that this is contrary to our Constitution and that too many people are unnecessarily victimized by it. That's a sound I'll continue to perform in this house. It will therefore not surprise anyone that I shall retable my motion in order to break this destructive strategy. I do so in the hope that that message will be heard, although you may have to take the messenger for granted. And if that doesn't work, then the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, the KPMG report and the hearts cry from the care, of parents and of young people or everything together will ever have to be enough for this Chamber to confess colour and say that the outgoing cabinet should break with this strategy. At least if one wants to do justice to the new coalition agreement that is being presented today, "Seeing each other, looking forward to the future," and showing vision. I haven't seen it in the last two years in the fight against the corona pandemic. Mr. Chairman. I hope, perhaps against better knowledge, that today will really be that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u138	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u139	Mr. Chairman. For weeks there has been an over-death rate that is ill-explained. There are hundreds of additional deaths a week, and they're not related to corona. Research from the University of London now shows that there are death peaks immediately after the first and second vaccinations. They were initially not correlated with vaccination, because people are still considered unvaccinated in the first two weeks after vaccination. Does the Minister recognize this phenomenon? And does this also apply to the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is taking measures that undermine our fundamental rights, are not effective and the medical and economic collateral damage is enormous. I have tabled numerous motions to increase ICU capacity and to train more ICU nurses. And now it turns out that a plan was submitted on 17 September to create 100 extra ic-beds on 1 December. My question to the Minister is simple: why did the VWS Ministry reject this plan? The viral dose that a human being receives is to a large extent a determining factor in how ill a person becomes, and therefore air purification is important. Ionization is a form of air purification. According to TU Eindhoven and several other companies, the effects are promising, not just against corona, but against all kinds of pathogens. So why does the Minister block this solution, and why should we not start ionizing buildings, companies, sports locations and schools as soon as possible? The current graduation candidates have had a hard time in the past year. I understand that they will not get another chance, and I will therefore table a motion to request that additional opportunity. Finally, Mr President. This cabinet escalates and polarizes by saying that "unvaccinated patients hold beds that are actually intended for others" and "it is a pandemic of the unvaccinated." Mr Van der Plas also just gave a quote from the last press conference. Both the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Council of State warned about this polarisation before. BVNL would very much appreciate it if the Minister would stop this unnecessary polarisation, in the interest of the Netherlands. I shall, if necessary, table a motion on this in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u140	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u141	The directors have indicated that they need about 45 minutes to prepare themselves. I suggest we suspend until about 3:40 p.m. Then we start voting, because we also have to vote today. This debate will then be continued.
