ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the situation at the exploratory stage of the cabinet formation. I would like to welcome Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren. To all the people who thought we were gonna start at 11:00, I want to apologize. The Chamber has asked for documents. Those pieces had to be gathered together and everyone had to be given the opportunity to study the pieces properly. That is why we are starting later than we had announced. All 17 spokesmen have five minutes' speaking time. It is still the case, including in the new Rules of Procedure, that the President allows the interruptions. These should really consist of short comments or questions, without any introductions. I am not going to restrict the number of interruptions at the beginning, but I reserve the right to intervene if too much is repeated and if the same point is addressed for too long. I'm definitely gonna do that if things get a little out of hand. We need to keep it a little clear, that's why. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President. I quote from the report by the former scouts: 'You have to make something with Omtzigt: Minister'. Signed Mark Rutte. So it was him. For a week, he tried to cover it up. I also understand now that he didn't want a debate, he didn't want accountability, because he just lied. To the NOS last Thursday, he literally said that he did not talk to the scouts about Mr Omtzigt. Well, it turns out that's the case. The Prime Minister has therefore not only lied, but also tried to defuse an excellently functioning but critical Member of Parliament such as Mr Omtzigt, at least in the Chamber, by promising him a ministerial post. Mr. Chairman. That is an incredible disgrace and it would be a credit to Mr Rutte if he left immediately. We know this after hours, almost days asking for all the pieces. What we're seeing now is a huge mess. This started with D66-explorer Ollongren, who gave the Netherlands an unintentional look in the kitchen of the political mafia. Ollongren's note gave insight into the true agenda of rotten politics. "Position Overzigt: function elsewhere"; four words that expose the concrete rot of The Hague. It is a good thing that yesterday, as a majority of the Chamber, we asked for all the documents to be made public. But the most shocking and most shocking thing is the behaviour of Mr Rutte of the VVD. He lied to the whole of the Netherlands. Last week, his response to a journalist's question was whether anyone was going to answer for this, and I quote: "No, that cannot be done, that cannot be done. No one is going to explain this." And we now know why: because it was him and because he, the Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, shamelessly lied to us for a week. Drunk with power and the result of the election Rutte thinks he can put the parliament aside for a while, push the truth into the cesspool and lie to the Netherlands. But this time, after ten years of government, the truth has caught up with him. I would like to say to Rutte: look for a position elsewhere. Get out of here! The former scouts also lied to us. They said in their letter of 29 March that none of the group chairmen would have talked to them about Mr Omtzigt. It just turns out to be. So not only by Mr Rutte, but also by the scouts we were fooled. VVD Explorer Jorritsma even suggested that Mr Omtzigt should become chairman of his group or even, in my view, President of the Chamber: a scandalous cow trade with a critical, excellent Member of Parliament. And but lying and lying to each other, that VVD clique, that they wouldn't have mentioned Omtzigt. Mr. Chairman. Dutch politics is sick, sick. Shortly after the elections, we are faced with a scandal that is unprecedented, a Prime Minister who wants to get rid of the Chamber, who wants to cover it up, who refused transparency and who is simply lying. That can only mean one thing: with this Prime Minister we cannot move forward. I ask you, Mr President, and through you, the Chamber, under the Rules of Procedure, to be allowed to table a motion of censure against Mr Rutte as Prime Minister in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	Is there any support for the first-term request for a motion? Mrs Ouwehand, really only about allowing a motion to be tabled in the first term and not to have a whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	My verdict will have to have some explanation. I fully share Mr Wilders' analysis, but I do not exclude that it would be good for Mr Rutte to answer himself in a moment and draw the conclusion that will ultimately be inevitable. Let's not do it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	So no support for filing a first-term motion. You want to wait for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	I support Wilders' request and I will co-sign the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that Members of Parliament can also table motions in the first term. I'll be defending myself in a moment, but the actual filing should always be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	So you support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	Support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	We fully support this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	Someone is free to table a motion, but at the same time I share Mrs Ouwehand's analysis. I would also like to hear what the Prime Minister has to say. I can imagine that the vote will take place after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mrs Ploumen and then Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. A fellow representative of the people is free to table a motion, even in the first term. As far as we are concerned, we shall form our verdict after hearing everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	As a matter of procedure, Members of Parliament are always free to table a motion. But filing a first-term motion must be supported by a majority. You therefore support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Wilders is free to table that motion. Our opinion on this comes after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	So you support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	I support the request. It is open to a Member of Parliament, but I am waiting for the whole debate, including the scout's explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. It's like you sketched it. It's not very common to do it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u21	You can ask for it, but as far as I'm concerned, we'll do the motions in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u22	So no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u23	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr Eerdmans, then Mr Segers and then Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u25	Support, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Segers and then Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u27	Procedural support, but I agree with Mrs Ouwehand, who says: let us wait for the debate and then pass the final judgment. But if Mr Wilders wishes to table a motion, I support him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u28	It's the same thing, actually. We support the request, but we also support Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u29	Madam President, support for the request, but prefer to hold the debate first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mrs Simons, then Mr Van der Staaij and then I think I have had everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u31	Once with colleague Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. It's actually double special, because it's about getting information from former scouts. And we are now going to mix it with a debate on the functioning of the Prime Minister. Moreover, it is also the first deadline. But on the other hand, it's a special situation. If Mr Wilders needs to table this motion now, I do not wish to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Wilders, you'll have a majority to file a motion in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Van der Staaij rightly says, it is a special situation. We have seen this, and there is no defense there, although of course I hear it from Mr Rutte that Mr Rutte lied in front of the camera. He said for the whole of the Netherlands, when he was asked by the NIS whether someone was going to answer: no, nobody is going to do that. He also said: no, we did not talk about Mr Omtzigt. And Mr Omtzigt has been mentioned. He just lied. After ten years of Rutte, we now see Mr Rutte's lie transparently. He will be able to tell a story about Mr Omtzigt in a moment, but he lied to the Netherlands, because he did mention Mr Omtzigt. That is a disgrace, apart from the fact that he wanted to promote Mr Omtzigt away. Hence, with the greatest conviction you can have, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. What is it, two weeks after the election, two weeks and one day after the election? I didn't think I'd ever say it in a debate so soon after the elections, but it's time for another election. It is time for new elections, because it is the only way in the Netherlands to restore the confidence of the citizen in politics, which has harmed Mr Rutte and the VVD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. I now give the floor to Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u37	Madam President. First of all, I would like to say something about my statements in the media. First of all, last Thursday's statement that there would be no debate. I shouldn't have made that statement. At that point in time, the state law was crawling in my head: how are you going to do a debate with two retired scouts? I also found the idea of having that debate with the Minister of the Interior, who, in my view, would not be part of it because of a completely different responsibility, extremely complicated. But it was an unwise statement, because it created the image that I didn't think it was necessary to discuss it here. I am quite right to be capitulated for that in the media. I shouldn't have made that statement. Sorry about that. Secondly, in those same interviews I said that in my conversation with the explorers I did not talk about Pieter Ommzigt. The report of my conversation shows that it was about Pieter Ommzigt. That quite rightly raises a lot of questions. I can tell you this. I have been told to the press what I thought and did not say in that conversation with the scouts. I didn't remember that after all. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u38	Do you have any further comments on this point? Then I'll go to the interruptions. I shall begin with Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u39	I really don't know where I'm supposed to be. This just seems like an old "I don't have any memories about it." Where do we know that from and how many times have we heard that from this Prime Minister? In the last few hours after this debate, I have really thought: what defence would he bring here this afternoon? What story would he come up with? But the story "I have no memories of it" and "I have spoken to the press in all conscience," I really couldn't have thought of that. The most clear question I would like to ask Mark Rutte is: how does he actually see that he could continue to be credible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'm not lying about what's with me from last Monday's conversation. I have the wrong memory of that. That's what it turns out. It's been different than I thought. But I'm not lying about that. I can also tell you what might be the explanation for that, namely that what is in the text is also exactly how the VVD is in it. The VVD has no idea what Pieter Ommzigt should or should not do after the elections. That's entirely up to the CDA. I also discussed this with Wopke Hoekstra after the elections and before the conversation with the scouts. I had seen Wopke Hoekstra say a number of things about the following: Pieter omtzigt possibly as minister in a future cabinet. I asked him two things after the election and before he talked to the scouts. First of all: how is Pieter Omtzigt himself? And two: know from the VVD that there is no objection to Pieter Ommzigt as minister, if that would be your wish. By the way, he kept that from happening. Not so much the part about Pieter Ommzigt, but that about the cabinet participation. That's what we see in the pieces. So the only explanation I have is that it was in my head, because we talked about it shortly before. But I have no memory whatsoever of bringing that back to the scouts. And that is the truth, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u41	Unbelievable. The first question, when you enter the scouts, is: what is your explanation of the result? In the VVD report, so Mark Rutte's conversation, the first point in the explanation of the result is the name Pieter Omtzigt. Exactly the name that the Prime Minister has been saying for almost a week now that he hasn't talked about it. It's probably the first thing you've brought up in that conversation. And this isn't about what might be nice for Pieter Ommzigt. The point is that you are there, because that is what it says: we need to do something with that. So that's what you brought in. It was not brought up by anyone else; it was brought up by you. And if so, why did you lie about it last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u42	I didn't lie. When you see the report, it turns out that it has been about Omtzigt, but what I have just said is in all conscience. So that memory was wrong, and I regret that. But what it says is exactly how the VVD is in it and as I said to our colleague Wopke Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u43	How does this Prime Minister feel about being credible? If now really the story is, my memories weren't right. We've heard that before from Mark Rutte. We've seen that too many times. We've seen too many of them hiding behind memories that weren't there. It's been a week, Mr. Rutte, I say through you, about this. For a week, the Chamber had to search, ask questions, dig and ask for another search, dig to get this information on the table. And now we all understand why it was so hard to get that information on the table. Because it wasn't just you who brought it up in the report. No, your scout, Mrs. Jorritsma, from VVD-huis, has also actively gone out to see if there might be something fun for Pieter Ommzigt to arrange. So that's from your tube. So that's from the case of the VVD. You brought that up in that conversation. Why don't you just admit it? Why don't you just admit that that's just more wrong than wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mrs Marijnissen, last week's debate concerns the issue of 'Pieter Omtzigt alsonderwijs'. I don't think that's in the cabinet; then you really talk about "something elsewhere." And we have heard Wopke Hoekstra say a number of times in the campaign: if we are going to rule, it would be quite possible for us to become Omtzigt Minister. I shared with him that that would be fine as far as the VVD was concerned, we would be in a cabinet together. He said, and I understand that: it's fine what you say about Omtzigt, but I'm not going to talk to you about cabinet participation, because we're absolutely not ready for that discussion, and we may never be ready for it at all. So he was absolutely clear about that, too. That's exactly how the VVD is in it. As far as we are concerned, that is about Omtzigt, if that were the wish of the CDA and the Chamber, or in the Cabinet, all right; we have no views on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u45	It's really unheard of. First, the Prime Minister speaks in his conversation with the scouts about our colleague Omtzigt. Then one of the scouts, who from the VVD-huis, also speaks about Mr Omtzig; he should then be President of the Chamber. Then the Prime Minister says: no one is going to explain this and answer it. And then the information, which this Chamber has actually been asking for for a week, shows that the Prime Minister just lied. So I ask the question again: how do you expect to be credible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u46	I didn't lie. I repeat that once again, also in the direction of Mrs Ploumen. I didn't lie. I have spoken to the press in my honour and conscience. The explanation I have, how it can be that it went along these lines and that I don't remember it, is that what's there in itself is exactly how we are in it. There is nothing secret about that either, and it is not surprising, because there was indeed talk in the campaign about Omtzigt as Minister. Hoekstra and I talked about that, too. Any other option that the CDA would like in the combination in which we would rule together again, is also fine for the VVD. We simply do not have a view on that. So what is in the notes is exactly the VVD's view, namely that we are not talking about it and that everything that the CDA would want after the elections is possible as far as we are concerned, of course, only if you can form on the content. Of these, Hoekstra.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u47	It is completely unbelievable what the Prime Minister is saying here. He spoke about our colleague Omtzigt in his conversation with the scouts. That conversation lasted 45 minutes. A number of issues have been raised and one of them is Omtzigt. It is really incomprehensible and disconcerting that the Prime Minister continues to deny that he has a memory of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u48	And that is the truth, Mrs Ploumen. I'm not standing here lying. Again, what's in there isn't something that deviates from what the VVD thinks or what would be strange. It also has nothing to do with the discussion that has arisen over the past few weeks about "Omvertigt, function elsewhere." Then I guess we're not talking about the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u49	The whole of the Netherlands now knows that Mr Rutte cannot even spell the words "the truth." He's been fooling around. He lied to the Netherlands. Now I also understand why he said "no" to the NOS last week when he got the question: Mr. Rutte, did you talk about Ommzigt? The question was asked: should there be accountability? He said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He knew, of course, that if there was a debate, he would run into the light. When we were sitting here yesterday, you made all kinds of attempts to make excuses not to get the documents to the Chamber. You knew you'd run into the light, Mr. Rutte. You're a born liar! I'm sorry to say this, but you screwed up. Do you not realize that your time has been with this performance, by saying again that you supposedly had no memory of it before the "no active memory" of it? Always, for ten years, they're excuses. The Dutchman has had enough of it by now. Do you not realize that you have overplayed your hand with this, that it is over, that the time of Rutte is over and that the Netherlands now sees who you really are: a liar?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u50	On the contrary, I have called for one of the seventeen reports to be made public, namely mine, and not the other, in order to avoid any further problem with the form of a new cabinet in terms of personal remarks. I proposed here last night to make my report and my notes all public, in absolute conviction that I had not spoken there about Pieter Ommzigt. What's in there next isn't something weird. It doesn't say "Peter Ommzigt," function elsewhere. It says exactly what the VVD thinks, namely that we are not talking about it and that it would be fine for us if that wish of the CDA were there in the event that the CDA would migrate. Again, they don't give a shuffle for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u51	No, and don't blame them. It's political suicide to rule with Rutte now. Then you're just gonna rule with a liar. Yesterday, indeed, you agreed, at the very last moment, when you saw that there was a majority in the Chamber for it. Indeed, you chose eggs for your money, as you did last week, when you said at the very last moment, 'Okay, I support a debate', just like Mrs Kaag, when there was already a majority. You knew it was gonna happen anyway, so I'd better get in on it. What you should have done? You should have just told the truth this week, in those seven days between your press appearance and the leaking of Mrs Ollongren's note and now. You should have just said, "Guys, it is. I have to have a debate. I did talk about Mr Omtzigt, and not only me, but also Mrs Jorritsma, who wanted to make him President of the Chamber." You have a half-hour or an hour's talk, Mrs Jorritsma is talking about Mr Omtzigt, who, in her view, should possibly be President of the Chamber, and you are talking about Mr Omtzigt, who you think should be Minister. You don't think we believe in the Netherlands that you happen to remember all three at once? That's totally unbelievable, isn't it? You're just standing here lying to a pinocchionous from here to South America, aren't you? That's just not possible, Mr. Rutte. You've been lying to the Netherlands for ten years. Now we've all seen it. I'd like to ask you to honor yourself and just quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u52	I'm not standing here lying. I am speaking the truth here, and the truth is that I spoke to the press in honour and conscience last week. The truth is also that I should have kept my mouth shut about whether or not I had a debate; that is what I have just started. Mr Wilders certainly has a point there. That's what it was like for me to ask myself at the time: how do you do a debate with retired scouts? The President has found a good solution to this by saying that those retired scouts can do that debate in a personal capacity. I'm standing here telling the truth, Mr. Wilders. I'm not standing here lying. This is the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u53	I have Mr Klaver, Mr Hoekstra, Mr Azarkan, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Segers, Mrs Kaag and Mr Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver and then to Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr Rutte actually says here: I'm not a crook. And we know what it means when you say that, when you have to deny that here, when you say, "I'm not a liar." This whole reconnaissance process went into the guardrail last week. And actually, Mark Rutte is responsible for that himself. He has become the largest party and has a great responsibility in forming a new government. But since he hasn't spoken the truth about what he said to the scouts for a week, we've been looking for the truth for a week. That's why we couldn't move on. I blame Mark Rutte, as group chairman of the largest party in the House of Representatives. Why haven't you spoken the truth about this before?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u55	I just explained that. I spoke to the press in all conscience and told them what I knew or didn't know. What is ultimately stated in that report is nothing exciting either, because I had already discussed this once with Wopke Hoekstra, the list leader and later group chairman of the CDA. It doesn't say, "Override, function elsewhere." It doesn't say: can he go outside The Hague? The VVD has no views on that. Pieter Ommzigt and I have always worked very well together from the moment he did the pensions, when I was Secretary of State, until the moment I was in this job, in which we were preparing the European debates. There's no motive at all, and it didn't happen. So what's going on here is that I say there: if he came to the cabinet and Hoekstra repeated the wish to make him minister, that's fine for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u56	If this had been the explanation a day after this had come out, I could have imagined something, but this explanation comes only a week later, only after we have had this in writing after a long time. That's problematic. Mr. Rutte, let's go back to early 2018, the beginning of the cabinet you're still Prime Minister of. May I remind you that you said at the time that you had no memory of any memos about the dividend tax plans? Also in 2018, you said that you did not have an active reminder of whether you knew Halbe Zijlstra had invented his visit to Putin. And in the aftermath of the Bitch Deal, you said you had no concrete memory of a phone call. In November 2019, you said about the victims in Hawija: I have no memory of being informed, in any way. Mr. Rutte, every time you get into trouble, your memory leaves you in the lurch. And now, for the first time in those ten years, there's solid evidence that you did. That's why you have such an outraged chamber in front of you. I would like to give you the modest advice: be truly honest and just say what you said there. But now you're going around it. You should have come up with this story a week earlier, but you didn't. That has been a big mistake, and you must live with those political consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Klaver, I'm being honest here. If I say here that I have spoken to the press in good conscience, then I am honest. And at those different moments from 2018 and 2019 that you bring back, I can show you on a case-by-case basis exactly what that was like and that I have spoken the truth there, on a case-by-case basis, in each of the four examples you mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u58	Finally, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u59	Over the past ten years, Mark Rutte has become a member of a pattern in which he is now the leader of the political group, but that was a problem as Prime Minister. And at every crucial moment he said: I wash my hands in innocence; I have no memory of this. That's quite a coincidence. Again he first denies that he said something about Pieter Ommzigt. I had that conversation with those scouts myself. When this started to play, of course I also wondered what I actually told you. I went back then. Everyone here did. And then after a week, with all the commotion there is, say, "I really didn't know"? It's a pattern, Mr. Rutte. At all these moments, you said that every time you got into trouble. Then your last lifeline is: I have no memory of it. I'm willing to do a lot, including forgiveness. If mistakes have been made, I am willing to say "this should be better" or "this should be different." But I don't accept one thing, and those are lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u60	I don't speak lies here. I speak the truth here when I say that at that time I spoke to the press in good faith and conscience. Mr Klaver says: there is a direct link between that statement 'Override, function elsewhere' and that piece of note in my report. I don't know. That's not up to me. We'll have to ask the scouts where that verdict came from. But I can only say that I did not say anything else there, as I read back that report, but something that was already quite clear to the VVD, but which I honestly did not remember that I myself had raised in that discussion. And that's the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u61	We've been at it for two weeks now. What a total, but also total mess it has become. Within that mess, we have been discussing what was said in those reports for a week now. I recognize what Mr Rutte just said about the conversation he and I had. But the question is of course: how is it possible that he remembers that conversation very well?It is very clear in his mind, which corresponds to my own memories and that he and the two explorers did not remember that it was also about Pieter Omtzigt on that particular Monday? There were three political leaders: the two scouts and Mr Rutte. And all three of them couldn't remember that part of the conversation, which doesn't seem to be trivial in the conversation, and they couldn't reproduce it. My question to Mr Rutte is how that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u62	I think that is a very fair question from Mr Hoekstra. I am incredibly upset about this, because it is true that after the elections we talked about Pieter Ommzigt together. Then I called him actively and said, "Listen, I saw that." Well, what I just said. Mr Hoekstra responded as I just outlined how he reacted. I have no way of remembering that this also came back in the conversation with the scouts last Monday. In no way. The conclusion of some others that perhaps the phrase 'Override, function elsewhere' comes from that, I find it rather short-sighted, that says not Mr Hoekstra, but that is what others said, because a position elsewhere is not a function in the cabinet. Anyway, I'll leave that to the scouts to explain. That could be a question to them, if they have any idea where that came from. But the fact is that I fully trust those who made the report when they write 'this has been so discussed', but I have no memory of it myself and really speak the truth about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u63	However, I would like to repeat my question, the question of how it can be done. We can all imagine... I think Clover just said that. We are all wondering: what did I say in that half hour, in that 45 minutes, or in that hour? Forgot triviality in that, I think every television viewer understands. Everyone understands that. There are also things I have read back this morning that I thought: oh, that's remarkable, because I seem to have said something about that. But that didn't go over the main line. So, in the main line of the report, I could read back exactly each of the parts that I had a very active memory of. I was able to read back what I said about the position of the CDA. I can read back what I said about the results. I could read back what I said about the content, which is nothing. My question to Mr Rutte is how it is possible that he and the two scouts cannot reproduce this particular, extremely sensitive point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u64	I don't know. I can only say that I am incredibly upset and that I speak the truth when I say here that I have spoken to the media in good conscience. If I had remembered this, there wouldn't have been any problem bringing that out, because there's nothing brittle about the statement "Omtzitzit, Minister." After all, that was suggested by Mr Hoekstra himself in the campaign. There's nothing brittle about that. That's really something else than "Override, function elsewhere." So the motive is missing. It's in line with the conversation Hoekstra and I had. But the fact is that I am telling the truth here, that it does not help me that it has been discussed in the discussion and that, of course, I fully accept the report that it has been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u65	One thing is, of course, extremely brittle. I say again: it is in that context of total, but also total chaos, where we all... What we're looking at with baffling. We've been at it for two weeks now. I'm gonna say it again. Two weeks. And I think everyone in the Netherlands is deeply ashamed of what politics is showing here. Inside we have been working for a week on the question of what was said to the scouts by whom at what time. That's the second part. That's the chaos in the chaos. We know that now. And that is the brisante, I would like to say, also to Mr Rutte. The brittle thing is, of course, that it was about our Pieter Ommzigt, that it did come up in one of those talks, and that it was then not reproduced by three of the political people present, the only political people present. In fact, it has been said that it has not come forward. That's the brisante.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u66	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u67	That is what this debate is about. That is also what the pitch of this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u68	Yes, I think Mr Hoekstra is analysing that from a to z correctly. I can only share all the words he says about this. The fact is that there is no motive for me, if I had remembered this, to bring it out last week: yes, I talked about Ommzigt, but in the context of what was also discussed earlier by Mr Hoekstra himself, a position, possibly, if the CDA wished, if they were to negotiate with them at all, in a cabinet; something other than what was the big problem, "function elsewhere." So I have no motive to cover that. But apart from that, I am speaking the truth here. I have spoken to the press in my honour and conscience. I can't do more than agree with Hoekstra. But the moment I speak to the press, as I know it, and so I am not lying here, it is not possible for me to analyse that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u69	I see you hesitating; you may return. Then Mr... For the sake of clarity: please keep your distance, otherwise I have to answer 200, 300 e-mails why we are not setting an example. I have Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Segers, Mrs Kaag, Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Simons, Mr Eerdmans, Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Dassen. You can just sit down. When you get your turn, I'll call your name. But you can stand, too, if you keep your distance. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u70	There really is a question that burns on my lips, and I will also pronounce it. At what point did Prime Minister Rutte realize he was lying when he wouldn't have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u71	I didn't lie. I just explained that. I have spoken to the press in my honour and conscience. I didn't lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u72	I can't get an answer to my question. At what point did Mr Rutte realize that what he said did not correspond to what was written on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u73	We've all been able to see that, haven't we? When the pieces came out, didn't we know?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u74	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u75	No, not finally. This is just not credible. There are hundreds of officials at the disposal of this Prime Minister. We've got two scouts with a follow-up, with a backup. If at some point last week, a week ago, it becomes clear that something has been written about a Member of Parliament who has to be put aside, then it is simply really lying when Mr Rutte says: I did not actually have until today, when I myself looked back at those reports, given that I spoke about Mr Omtzigt. How credible does Mr Rutte himself think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u76	I am going to explain exactly to Mr Azarkan. The officials sitting there are completely separated from the Ministry of General Affairs, where they worked for that purpose. The last time I said "goodbye" to them was March 17th, the day of the elections. I hooked up two of them the moment I got there for the conversation. I haven't been in touch with them. They're now in the service of the House of Representatives. I haven't had any contact with them, and that's the way it should be. So there's no way they could have said, "Mark, you're making a mistake." Never should have. They should never have done that. That would have seriously damaged their integrity. That's not possible. When I said to the NOS and to RTL 'I did not talk about Pieter Ommzigt', they could not possibly say: our notes say that at least one remark was made, namely 'Pieter Ommzigt Minister'. They couldn't do that. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u78	But if...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u79	No. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u80	Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u81	No. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u82	I have the first question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mrs. Ouwehand. Everyone has asked two to three questions in this round. We're just getting started, so I'm going to see Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u84	We have previously had an exchange of views with the Prime Minister that there is actually no good excuse anymore. 'Cause either you don't know the difference between a lie and the truth... those are flaws if you want to lead the country... or you have such a bad memory that you don't remember incredibly important things for the country. Then you're done, too, so Mr. Rutte can't go anywhere. My questions are as follows. Does he speak on behalf of this House and is that in line with the VVD Group? The Party for Animals is already looking ahead. Mr Rutte can't go on, but what about the VVD? Is the VVD behind the story that Mr Rutte is expressing here on behalf of the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u85	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u86	Then question two. At what point did the former scouts have contact with Mr Rutte after we saw on Mrs Ollongren's paper "Positie Ommzigt, function elsewhere"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u87	I have had personal contact with them, especially with Mrs Ollongren, who, of course, was affected by the covid crisis last Thursday. I have also had contact with Mrs Jorritsma about the misery that had occurred. We have not spoken in terms of content. I asked them both, of course, "Is it true what you put on paper?', What the new scouts have put on paper, that it hasn't been about it. Yeah, they say that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u88	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u89	Well, Mr President, I would like to appeal to you that we get answers to the questions, because this was a very nice story, but it was not an answer to my question. My question was: when, after we could see on the paper "Positie Overzigt, function elsewhere," did Mr Rutte have contact with the scouts? My next question is: has the scouts agreed before this debate what their line of defence is going to be? For Mr Rutte is now saying that the scouts must explain how it ended up in the pieces. That gives the impression that it is agreed with one or both of them that they are being sacrificed, so that Mr Rutte can pass. I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u90	No. The second one is fundamentally untrue. I just answered the first one. I asked them both: is my memory that we weren't talking about it? Then they said, "Yeah, that's right."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u91	And when was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u92	That was that Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u93	All right, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr President, may I ask one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u95	No, Mrs. Ouwehand, if I'm gonna do it to you, I'm gonna have to do it to everyone, 17 times. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u96	First of all, a few very short questions. Does Mr Rutte recognise that there has indeed been talk of Pieter Omtzigt, while he has said that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u97	I trust these officials 100%. They're high-level and totally reliable. If they write that down, so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u98	Does Mr Rutte also recognise that not only has there been talk of ministerialism, but that there has also been talk of presidency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u99	I can't get that part translated. I don't think I'm gonna be able to keep up with that ministership. Neither is the presidency of the House. What exactly it says, I can't exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u100	Those are notes from one of the officials, which means a whole...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u101	I've seen it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u102	... writing out conversation, actually. It's about what I can decipher, the presidency. We also discussed the relationship between the votes of Mr Hoekstra and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u103	You really need to keep your distance, Mr. Baudet and Mr. Jansen! This is really annoying! Sorry. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u104	Does Mr Rutte then recognise that when you talk about a possible ministerial position, about presidency, about the number of votes, that it is actually about much more and that it can actually be summed up by 'function elsewhere'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u105	No, in any way. When you read it back, it says, "What's that rash gonna look like?"; stability CDA, depending on which of the two gets the most preferred votes. That was not clear at the time. That's not about Pieter Ommzigt's position. That was about the stability in the CDA. I remember that part. I don't remember that part about the Ministery of Omtzigt. Neither is the part about President of the Chamber. I can't untangle what's in there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u106	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u107	It says in the summary: you have to do something with Omtzigt. That's the summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u108	Double point, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u109	That's much more than: "Would I object to a ministership? No, we have no objection to that." No, it was about a lot more. It was a much broader conversation. What I have to say is a motive. That is the motive that there is a persevering MP, who can sometimes be a difficult MP, who asks for facts, and where the incumbent power, a cabinet, suffers from. This raises the question: what does that say about our reflection on power and opposition, between the Cabinet and the Chamber, in which the Chamber and Members of Parliament have a duty to be difficult, to be persistent? When I see the reflection and then the summary and the discussions that have been held, I am honestly very concerned. Could I ask Mr Rutte to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u110	For the VVD we have no views on what Pieter Omtzigt is going to do, should the CDA start to rule. That's what the CDA's about. That's not up to us. We have no idea about that. You're right, you're not. I've said that a few times here. What you'll see back there is that we were talking about stability in the CDA in the context of the preferred votes for both, for the list puller and the number 2. That's what we were talking about. I remember. That was about the stability in the CDA. What I don't remember was that it was there about a ministership for Pieter Ommzigt. That part about the presidency is already quite confusing, at least, is not very good to reproduce. That's not in my memory in any way. But I can only trace that piece on the ministry back to the fact that I had spoken to Hoekstra a few days before, following a statement in the campaign. That could be an explanation that it's still in your head and that you're saying, yeah, you know, it could. That's probably what happened. But when I told the NOS last week that I hadn't mentioned Pieter Ommzigt, it was the sincere memory of me of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mrs Kaag, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mr. Rutte, you know me. I'm standing here with a heavy heart. Because you also spoke to the NOS on my behalf at that time last week, you mentioned it yourself and confirmed that neither of us had contributed or commented on Pieter Ommzigt. This is where we part ways. Because in politics and in life, hopefully, a person has good health, but the greatest good is the individual integrity, before the words. I have three questions about this. Have you never, as others have asked, played the film in your head: have I ever mentioned Pieter Ommzigt as a Member of Parliament, have I been working on functions? Because you like to take care of things. I know I didn't. You can see in the report that I have not mentioned any person, because I have worked from the point of view of content. But I, too, went off to think: would it have been possible that I mentioned anyone? That's one. Two: with this damage, which has occurred, I also notice that there is certainly a pattern in recent years, a pattern of forgetfulness, amnesia, I forgot. I've been able to observe that myself. How can you, in the biggest crisis we have in the Netherlands, restore that confidence which I think has been harmed again? I would ask you to reflect on this as a possible longest-standing Prime Minister, but at least the leader of the largest party. You're being watched, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u113	First of all, about the first question. I talked to Hoekstra after the election and before that conversation about Omtzigt, as I just outlined. I won't repeat that, because I just explained how that conversation went and why we had a conversation following statements by Wopke Hoekstra in the campaign. If I tell you here that I have spoken to the press in good conscience, then so be it. Then I'm standing here telling the truth. The only explanation is that what I had discussed with Hoekstra, about that ministership, if it were necessary, and that the VVD has no opinion on it, could have been dealt with in that discussion as well. It could be. But I don't remember that. That's the truth. That also answers your second question: I am not standing here lying. I'm telling the truth here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u114	You do not have to answer it now, but I am also, of course, waiting for the scout's report in this debate. Shaded trust is not something you can observe or take away with one remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u115	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u116	The harmed trust is not yours alone. It is up to all of us to answer the question: there has been serious damage, is it still possible to repair it? That is the crux of the debate. That's not a yes or no, or "I'm not lying." It's a lot heavier than that. So I ask you to take the seriousness of this whole process on your shoulders, because otherwise, I think, there is no way out. That's a very tricky one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u117	I agree with Mrs Kaag. As far as I am concerned, I am speaking on behalf of the NOS on my own behalf, at least that part of the report, which I said about Mrs Kaag, appears to be correct, as the report also shows to be incorrect. My share doesn't seem to be right, but I've done it to the best of my conscience. That's the piece. The second is that it's been about "Pieter Ommzigt, function elsewhere" for a week. I do not think that you can deduce from my part of the report that that is the reason for this. But that is a question we must also ask the scouts. The third is, as Mr Hoekstra has just found out, the mess we've been dealing with for two weeks now. I hate that one. Because the country needs to be governed. We need to get on with each other. There must be a government that is handlungsfähig, which can deal with the crisis further. A outgoing cabinet does its best, but it is ultimately better for the Netherlands if there is a full government. This means that we have to look at these shrapnel together and try to guide the process as closely as possible. I feel very, very responsible for that, I can say to Mrs Kaag. And I know that goes for her, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u118	I am impressed here, because trust is the cement that is needed in the formation of a new cabinet. Strengthening trust is an important task in the coming period, said almost all parties. I now hear the Prime Minister saying again and again: I have spoken to the press in good conscience. But I understand that he just didn't speak the truth to the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u119	At any rate at that time, and until I read the notes of the officials who were present at the talks, I was convinced that there was nothing in it other than the question of how many preferred voices would get to Omtzigt or Hoekstra. I remember that part, but when it comes to the position of Omtzigt, as it says in it, as a minister, and a few more things, I have no memory that we discussed that in that conversation. To be honest, that was also the memory of the two scouts, who of course brought them out. But I'm talking for myself now. As far as I'm concerned, that's true. When I read that, I thought: that's what we talked about, what's in there isn't weird, because that's exactly how the VVD is in it. If I'd remembered that, there wouldn't have been anything against bringing that out. There's no motive at all not to. That's different from "Override, function elsewhere." But I need to speak the truth here. The truth is, at that time, I spoke to the press with all my conscience. I can't go here and talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u120	I notice that the Prime Minister is avoiding saying it, even though it is the essence. Everyone sees that, and that's what's causing the damage. Either way, he didn't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u121	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u122	Because on a very sensitive point, a point that everyone was dealing with because it seemed as if a difficult MP had to be promoted, he said "there was no mention of it at all," but in the documents we see that it has been discussed. This is simply extremely damaging to confidence in the formation of the cabinet and the confidence in the government. So I really have the question of what further the Prime Minister's views might be, given these shrapnels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u123	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that, in the end, what I said there is not true, but it was not intended to speak an untruth. But it wasn't true. He's right about that, because that's what you see in those notes right now. I think we should have this debate today. I also hope that this debate can help restore confidence by holding this debate. Then we need to see how we are going to take the next steps in this cabinet formation. We have to learn from this, clean up the shrapnel and take a step backwards, but then we have to try to get the process back on track as soon as possible. I do have some ideas about that, but I don't think this is the time to talk about it, because then it's like I'm trying to talk myself out of this difficult problem. I think I have first to speak to the Chamber about what I said to the media on that Thursday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u124	I have Mrs Simons, Mr Eerdmans, Mrs Van der Plas, Mr Dassen, Mr Baudet and Mrs Den Haan. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u125	I have heard Mr Rutte say a number of times that he says here, in all conscience, that he cannot remember a number of things. I am concerned about Mr Rutte's honour, conscience and memory. I agree with all those people who have been left unsatisfied before because they have not received an answer to the question: how do you think you should proceed? How should the Netherlands, how should 17 million people, have faith in a prime minister with such honor, conscience and memory?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u126	I'm just trying to figure out where the link is with honor and conscience, because that would be a point if I were standing here lying. And I won't. I'm telling the truth here. The truth is that at that moment I told the press what I said to the press because that is sincere as I remembered the talks, namely that it was not about Pieter Ommzigt's position. Mr Van der Staaij is right: if you read the report now, that is not true. Then the truth turns out to be very different, namely that it was about it. I'm sorry about that, too. But I can't make that right here. I can only say that I am incredibly sorry. I do not believe that this has taken a week longer, because I believe that this remark about the ministerial position is something other than 'Omvertigt, function elsewhere'. I really think that's what I think; that was my interpretation of that was about a position outside The Hague. Otherwise, Hoekstra would have already mentioned in the campaign 'Omvertis, function elsewhere', and he would not have had that when he said: I can imagine myself as a minister. So that's really different from "function elsewhere." I don't think there's any misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u127	Then please answer my question how Mr. Rutte himself thinks that the Dutchman can still have faith in this honor, this conscience and this memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u128	I answer here by saying that I made a mistake there. My memory didn't add up. That's what those notes say. I think it is so in the Netherlands and throughout the world that I think it is honor and conscience, to repeat those words by Mrs Simons, that if you make a mistake, you name them and try to correct them. Then it is up to others in the Netherlands to find something of that. I'm just finding that I had no intention other than to speak the truth. If you look at the facts now, you'll see it's over. I deeply regret that. So I said that wrong. But the intention wasn't there to say anything wrong or lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr Wilders made a suggestion this morning about a way in which Mr Rutte could make this right. I am very curious to see what Mr Rutte thinks about that himself. In remembrance, he asked if you would honor yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u131	I'll answer here. I hope we have a country in which people can still make mistakes. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u132	I am looking at Mr Rutte and I can actually see from his posture that he is very difficult to come out with the confidence that is crumbling. You can see that happening. I think it can also be seen from the posture of the former scouts. I myself had come up with many ideas that Mr Rutte could follow, but I could not have invented them: 'I have no memory of them'. I understand that you do remember officials who have cut you down in the conversation, but you do not remember the most unfavourable thing that has been going on all week, namely Mr Omtzig's position. It is of course a tradition that you can remember favorable things, but the bad one is not so good. My question about Mr Omtzigt is actually the following. "You have to deal with Omtzigt." That's what it says. You say: yes, we have talked with the CDA, with Hoekstra, of course about a ministership for Omtzigt; that was very positive." But the story behind that sentence is: we have to do something with it, because it is a problem. Was omtzigt a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u133	I have just said that the VVD has no idea about Pieter Ommzigt and what is next, and that a few days before I had said that to Hoekstra as well. But Mr Eerdmans, too, is now linking the statement 'Omvertigt, function elsewhere' to the fact that I did not recall correctly that I did talk about Omvertigt in the role of minister. In my absolute opinion, these are two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u134	But that phrase is correct? "You have to deal with Omtzigt"; that's what the report says. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u135	I don't remember that whole part of the conversation, so I can't confirm that here, can I? I can only say that I didn't call Hoekstra that Friday for nothing to say: listen, Wopke, I heard you say that in the campaign. He said, "I'm not gonna talk to you about a cabinet formation at all." I get that. But I said, if it were to come to a cabinet and Pieter would become minister, that would not be a problem for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u136	It is not about Mr Rutte's memory; it is about being written down by a witness, namely the secretary of the consultation, who also made our reports. It just wrote down that you said, "You have to deal with Omtzigt." So it was a problem. It wasn't a promotion; it was: something must happen to him. That's the charge of that sentence, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u137	That's imaginable in itself, isn't it? You do know that Pieter Ommzigt as number 2 of the CDA is a very successful and successful MP? And there was a question from Mr Hoekstra in the campaign whether he could become a minister? That is, in itself, conceivable, but I have no memory of the fact that we talked about this in that discussion. Not only do I not have that memory, the scouts don't have it. That's the whole problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u138	I see Mr Hoekstra. Would you like to say something about this? Because your name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u139	Sorry, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u140	It seems to me that it is important to separate two things very sharply, also in the light of what Mr Eerdmans just said. What I have just underlined is what Mr Rutte said about what he said to me earlier. What did he say to me? He contacted me. He asked in that conversation what it was like with Pieter Ommzigt and he responded to what I had said in the campaign in response to a question from a journalist or Pieter Ommzigt could become minister. I said, "Absolutely, but that's up to Pieter Ommzigt and me." That's what I told the reporter. Then Mr Rutte indicated that this was in favour of the VVD agreement, that there was no objection whatsoever to it or to words similar to that. I then held off the whole conversation, because I did not want to be messed up with Mr Rutte. But it is important, also for this debate, to break up that conversation in that context and with that conclusion and phrases as contained in the report and which, of course, are about something else. Because it says "function elsewhere" and it says "we have to do something." Those are two completely different things. One has to do with the report and with the discussions with the scouts. The other has to do with a much more concise discussion that Mr Rutte and I had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u141	Yeah, totally recognizable, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mrs van der Plas and then Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u143	I would like to ask Mr Rutte if he does not want to put an end to this shameful display very quickly. The whole country is really embarrassed. We don't see that now, but we do feel it. It's said here all the time, "I don't have an active memory of it." I think I've heard that a hundred times. It's totally unbelievable. So I really want to ask you to put us out of this suffering and just admit that you did mention it. Pieter Omtzigt is a very, very well-known politician. He's not just now and not just last week. He was before that. You're not going to tell me that you don't remember mentioning the word "Omzigt" in that conversation. We didn't talk about puk; we talked about Pieter Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u144	Sure. And I'm telling the truth here. I am telling the truth here when I say that, in my opinion, it has not been about a function, certainly not elsewhere, or at all about Pieter Ommzigt, other than what I do recognize: who among the two gets more preferred votes at the CDA? That's right; we talked about that and I remember that because that was about stability in the CDA and how it would work out. So that's true, but in that other piece, Mrs Van der Plas, I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u145	You can say that a hundred times. I don't know what's going on in your head, but it can't be that you don't remember. That's really impossible. And if that is indeed the case, let us assume that it is 0.0001% and I think you should say right away that you are no longer a prime minister, because someone with such a memory, time and time again, cannot lead our country into the biggest crisis after the Second World War. That's just totally impossible. So left or right, I'd say, let's just stop. Then at least we have had this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mrs Van der Plas, I am speaking the truth here. I made a mistake here. My memory has failed here. What I'm saying here is true. I'm not lying here. It is further up to the Netherlands, to the Chamber, to everyone to find something of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u147	Probably Mr Rutte was here, like me, once eager to change, to take responsibility, and certainly to radiate confidence. Following on from Mr Klaver and following on from Mr Klaver's list, I wonder what the young Mark Rutte, when he was standing here, thought acceptable to a Prime Minister to lose memory very often in all these years on very large subjects. What else is acceptable there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u148	I have just said that of all the examples mentioned by Mr Klaver, it is to be explained that I have spoken the truth about this. Of each of those examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u149	Now I ask him: what does the outgoing Prime Minister actually think is important about having a good memory? How important is that to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u150	That is very important and that has gone completely wrong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u151	Finally, Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u152	Finally. If you then look at all the memory losses of the past few years, how many more can you add before you say: it is no longer acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u153	I have just said that of all the examples on the list just mentioned by Mr Klaver, I have spoken the truth about this. Unfortunately, memory has left me here, too, and not just me. I insist that the remark 'Override, function elsewhere' is really something different from 'Override, Minister'. I'd think it was really wrong if those two were connected. I would ask you to accept that position; perhaps I am not the only one who thinks so. Nevertheless, I said to the NIS and RTL 'it didn't go over', although it did. That announcement was genuine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u154	Then I have Mr Baudet and then Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u155	I have two questions. Did the Minister go to the scout's office this morning to read those e-mails, or did he take notice of them in any other way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u156	No, I didn't go to the scouting station this morning. I heard this morning at 7.30 a.m., via, not what was in the pieces, but specifically that it was so about Omtzigt. I heard that at 7:30 this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u157	I don't quite understand this. Can you be a little more specific about the way this happened? Did you receive your own call notes at 7.30 a.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u158	No, I haven't been sent anything. I heard at 7:30 this morning. I can't reveal the source; that's confidential...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u159	I give a genuine answer to Mr Baudet. I heard this morning at 7:30 a.m. through those notes that said "Omtzitzit, Minister." I heard that this morning at 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u160	Back a little bit. I believe that this whole debate is based on the idea that we all, as Members of Parliament, this morning between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m.... In this debate, Rutte is also a Member of Parliament. He's not here as Prime Minister; he's here as MP. Between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m., we were allowed to see what was reported from those talks. It's been the same for all of us. Now we hear that at 7:30 this morning he "via"... What happens then? A bell? Or a text from someone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u161	I can't tell you that. That's confidential. But I heard at 7:30 this morning that Pieter Omtzigt had been mentioned in the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u162	Confidential? But who's it from? Whose is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u163	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u164	I would like to make a point of order. I believe that this is not the order of the meetings. It is clear that Rutte did not receive that information as a Member of Parliament. Apparently, he has a different position from all of us, while he is standing here as a Member of Parliament and is also being addressed as a Member of Parliament on behaviour in the reconnaissance round. I find this unacceptable. I'm very curious how...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u165	What is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u166	Well, I don't want us to accept this, that we don't accept that he says "through" and that he gets away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u167	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u168	For the sake of clarity, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u169	I also have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u170	Yes. Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u171	In any case, this is in no way linked to General Affairs. It's all out there. That's what I want to say here. But I heard through through, this morning at 7:30, and that's the truth, that in my interview report, or in the notes that were underneath...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u172	But you can't do this, can you? That we accept this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr. Baudet, you have a point of order. What is the point of order you wish to propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u174	Yes, I leave that to Mr Klaver to formulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mr. Klaver. Don't get close!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u176	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Mr President, this promises a great deal for the coming period. I would like to propose the following. We ask Mr Rutte once again what "via" means, and he has the opportunity to answer. If not, we will suspend this debate and then tear the entire Explorer's office apart, because I want to know where this information comes from now. We were able to look at the information there between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. this morning. If you've had this information at 7:30...or Mr. Rutte will tell us, or we'll ask for information again. Who contacted Mr Rutte this morning? What documents were shared?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yeah, but not too much...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u178	Has anyone been e-mailed? - Did they apprehend you? Did you get a call?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u179	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u180	So my point of order is simple, if you'll give me a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u181	Yes, I want to do that now, but you need to put it briefly so that colleagues can say whether they support it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u182	If Mr Rutte does not answer the question of what 'via via' means, I would like to suspend. And then I would ask you, because the scouts are working with us, to go back to the scouts, to ask who has been in contact with the Prime Minister, and to bring up all the information necessary for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u183	Mr President, then we must suspend, because I have a source to give away, and I find that complicated. It is not a matter of general affairs I would like to say again here, but I find it complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u184	Good. A point of order. Whether or not there's support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u185	Yeah, point of order, support. Look, we all have the same rules here. It can't be, because that's just corruption, that one party, or the prime minister, gets the information through and we don't. I would therefore ask you to suspend the proceedings in order to obtain that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u186	Good. I would like to see whether this point of order is broadly supported. All you have to do is say yes or no. You all have five minutes of speaking time, and you can also make your other points. I'm going to see Mrs. Den Haan now. You stood before something else, but now the question is: do you support the point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u187	I was standing here for something else indeed, but I support the point of order. I'm gonna take my further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr. Chairman. I support Mr Klaver's proposal. I would add that I think it would be wise for the scouts to show an overview of who had that knowledge. If that person cannot come here to inform the Chamber, I would like to have a document on who had the information that led to someone else, namely Mr Rutte, having that information at 7.30 a.m. I'd like an overview of who has access to that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u189	So you support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u190	Support for Mr Klaver's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u191	I'm just looking at who's close to a microphone: Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr President, I support the request. But I would like to add that, given that there were no documents yesterday that were suddenly there this morning, we would like to have that period a little wider; not only from 7.30 a.m. this morning, but from the last 24 hours. I would like to know if there has been any contact, for example, between Mr Rutte and the scouts about the documents we didn't get yesterday and they were there this morning, when the scouts said they had already given everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u193	Mr President, support for the request. It's getting weirder. Mark Rutte didn't have any memories of it himself. We had two scouts in the room who had no memories of it either. And it wasn't the official. Then who was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u194	Mr. Chairman. Support for the original request and all the additions made by my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u195	Support for the request, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u196	I support the request and also the request for a suspension in order to provide clarity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u197	Support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u198	Support, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u199	Support for the request and also support for the request for any additional information requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u200	I see Mr Dassen walking faster to the microphone than Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u201	Support for the request, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u202	Support from JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u203	Did I talk to everyone? The point of order is to suspend now and to request information on Mr Rutte's comment. Then I suggest we suspend for half an hour. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u204	I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u205	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u206	I give the floor to Mr Rutte. I see Mr Baudet, I see Mr Klaver and I see Mrs Marijnissen, but first Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u207	Mr. Chairman. I used the suspension to think about it myself. Before I come up with my reaction, a few introductory words. First of all, I would remind you that yesterday I myself proposed to make my report public unchanged and the other one did not. I think it shows that I didn't want to cover anything. I also sent an e-mail to you yesterday, Mr President, if it were so that we could see the reports in advance and change them if necessary, I would not do so. I received a non-solicited call from someone this morning at 7.30 a.m. who had been informed by means of information that I would probably have mentioned Pieter Ommzigt in the report of my conversation or at least in the notes of my conversation with the two informers. I've just been thinking about that. I've decided not to reveal that source. I have also decided that I will, of course, answer further questions on this as best I can, but will not go into any further details about that source. So that's the conclusion of my reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u208	Then I think we should take a step as a Chamber, because the former scouts have indicated that they had nothing to do with the exploration process since the 25th, last week, when they laid down their task. That means that it must have come from the current scouts, who somehow have a shortcut to the Prime Minister. That is absolutely unacceptable in democratic and constitutional terms. I propose that we suspend this debate now and go straight to the scouts' office. We want to know exactly what went out there and who. If Rutte himself doesn't want to give up the line back to the scouts, then the scouts must give up the line that ran to Rutte. I also suggest that we have them both in box K now. I'd like to know what the Chamber thinks about that. Finally, I would remind you that yesterday I also said that the scouts are working for the Chamber, for us. It has, of course, been a sign that they are always ministers or former ministers and a chairman of the VVD's governing bodies. Once again, it is another two rulers who are in the process of reconnaissance. That's what makes it look like. The Registrar, the minutest of those meetings, works on AZ. Mark Rutte pays his salary every month. So, in all kinds of ways, things are very different from national law. This is really unacceptable. We cannot accept this as a Chamber. So I suggest we suspend. We're going to the scouts' office now. We invite Wouter Koolmies and Tamara van Ark to sit here. They need to tell exactly who they told all this to. If they can't tell you that, then we just want to clear out the whole office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mr. Klaver. Yes, Mr. Baudet, I heard you. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u210	So I want to know if the Chamber agrees, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u211	I'm going to see Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u212	No, I'm making a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u213	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u214	Yes, so the MPs can now say, "Once or differ."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u215	Yeah, but I'm in charge. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u216	Mr. Chairman. Before going to the point of order, I would like to consider something to Mr Rutte. Where we stand now is a crisis of confidence. That is deep and that is problematic, because in the end we will have to come to a coalition here, in this Chamber, all the parties. It'll be a while, if I see it this way. In order to restore that confidence, it is really not good for you to stand here and say to all of us: I have decided not to say anything about it. That is why I would really like to give you, also from the responsibility you have as leader of the largest party in the Netherlands, to do so, to give that openness and to tell you where it comes from. This is of the utmost importance for restoring confidence. So before I go into what the Chamber itself could do to get this information up, I'm really appealing to you from the bottom of my heart, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u217	I appreciate that very much. I think Mr Klaver is right to do the same. I have weighed that very carefully, but I think it is very important. This was at 7:30 this morning. There wasn't a possibility anymore, even last night, that there wouldn't have been anything to change about it if you wanted to. So it has brought me no advantage, other than that I realized from half past eight this morning that possibly, presumably, omtzigt was mentioned anyway. That was the message. In the end, like the others who didn't see the pieces, I had to wait until about 11:00 this morning when we actually got the pieces. I have not seen any documents, but I have just received this communication on presumably mentioning them. I'm not prepared to reveal that source. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u218	I'm really sorry about that. It's about trust. In this Chamber, there is doubt as to whether you are telling the truth. You now say "via having received information" and you think it is more important to protect that source than to work towards restoring trust here in the Chamber. You now have the responsibility to ensure that there is a coalition again as soon as possible and this makes this difficult. If you are not prepared to do so, I would indeed ask the President to contact the current scouts and ask who was in possession of this information and who was in contact with Mark Rutte from the scouts or the scouts' office and which other persons this information was shared with. I do not think it is acceptable that we should not be given this information. I'll explain why that is. In such an exploration, each party must be treated in exactly the same way. This is not about party colors, it is about treating each party in the same way and trying to get together after a complicated election campaign. We must be able to be confident that this is the case for each party and that the scouts are doing their best to bring out the sound of each party, whether they are scouts or informers. As long as the heaviness lingers that the explorer's office, soon the informant's office, gets information to the leader of the VVD, it's pressing on this whole reconnaissance and information process. And we can't have that. That is not acceptable for the future of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u220	Mr. Rutte is playing a big game. That is his right, but it is also the right of the Chamber to draw a line. As far as I'm concerned, we're pulling it here. We've been trying for hours to get the truth out. It is up to Mr Rutte to answer our questions. I wonder why he doesn't want to reveal that source.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u221	I'm not going to go into that any further. Again, I've heard through word that Pieter Omtzigt's name was probably mentioned in notes or a conversation report. That's my honest answer to Thierry Baudet, who asked that question. I'm not going to report that source here. I was just referred to terms like "conscience" et cetera, but I don't think it's right to report that source.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u222	The Prime Minister does not think it is correct and is not going to do it, but that is not an answer to my question. Apparently, he won't give it to me. At least I thought I should give him that chance, but he won't even tell me why he won't give up the source. All you're saying is I knew it at 7:30 via. And you don't want to explain why you don't want to reveal that source. I think it's fine to invite the new scouts, but to be honest, we have already seen them on camera. We have already seen Mrs Van Ark, who said: yes, I felt that there was talk about Pieter Ommzigt. Yes, of course she would have felt it, because her own party leader just put it up in the conversation. We know that by now. This is simply from the back of the VVD, the party that was once in favour of freedom and democracy, but which I believe is now in favour of freedom and cover-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u223	Mr Wilders, Mr Azarkan and Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u224	Mr. Chairman. Could I ask Mr Rutte: was it Mrs Van Ark?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u225	I'm not gonna say anything about that. It was a source via via, but I'm not telling you who that source was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u226	You know, I've actually had a little bit of it. We can all bring people back here. If I have to, I'd like to do Mr Baudet a favor to bring them here, but I'm afraid we're not getting anywhere. I fear that the people who come here, especially if it has been via, will not answer anything. The only one who can tell us the truth is Mr. Rutte. Mr Rutte refuses to accept that, as he has said recently, the falsehood has been lying. He lied to the Netherlands that he did not talk about Mr Omtzigt. He didn't want a debate in the Lower House. And now, after he himself said "I've heard it an hour and a half before," he says again, even after considering "I'm not going to tell the truth about this." So it's twice in three hours that you're not telling the truth again. Madam President, I've had enough. I would like to say again, with a calm tone, but with a great deal of force on behalf of many Dutch people to Mr Rutte: please, stop it. Stop getting us mixed up in lies. Stop fooling around with the Netherlands. Make way for someone else. There are undoubtedly a lot of good, other VVD'ers who can make sure in any combination, with or without them that the Netherlands can move forward again. But don't keep us busy with this. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! You're your credit today April 1st, and unfortunately it hasn't lost a joke at all. You lied. You're not telling the truth again. I've had enough of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u227	May I respond, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u228	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u229	I'm going to respond briefly, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on Baudet's question, "have you heard it before?" I'll answer here. That's not a lie. That's an honest answer: at 7:30 this morning. Then, of course, the follow-up question can be asked: how do you know? It was a presumably point "Omtzigt" that would have been called "Omtzigt" via via via. It's also my right to protect that source. On the second point made by Mr Wilders. That goes to the rest of the debate. I almost get to run this country now, well, over 10 and a half years. Yeah, that doesn't all go wrong. There have been absolutely mistakes. I'm so proud of what we're getting together here. There is a lot to do for the coming years, including in the new cabinet. And there's been a mistake. There was a mistake I admit, namely that my memory of what happened there failed. It is then up to the Netherlands, the Chamber and everyone to judge whether you can deal with that and whether that is acceptable or not. But I'm telling the truth there. And the truth is as follows. I was asked that by the NOS and RTL. This morning at 07.30 a.m., I was told that "probably that name has been mentioned." From 11:00 on, I was sure when I saw the pieces, when they came to us through the Office Cabinets formation, that that name had been mentioned. And that is indeed a mistake. In retrospect, it turns out that I didn't speak the truth there. Unintentionally, as I said to Mr Van der Staaij. Then I'll say: take what's been playing with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u230	The Prime Minister actually finds the whole Chamber opposite. The question is: how can we have confidence in the formation if it leaks via information?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u231	I get that question. This is via and I cannot go further on that source either. I can assure Mr Azarkan that it is unfortunate that this has happened, but I cannot reveal that source. But I'm telling the truth here that it happened. Probably having mentioned Omtzigt in those pieces or in those conversations, that's just the honest truth and that means that it's also my job to make sure that such a via-via source, that route just isn't there. So that is not good, Mr Azarkan is right. It's my job to make sure that dries up immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr Rutte could have chosen a different path. He could have cut that off. He could have said that, like all the other group chairmen, I am waiting until 9 a.m. and then I take it to myself. He didn't choose to do that because he took advantage of it in one form or another. He has an information origin on the other group chairmen. It's quite a coincidence. The whole week we're talking about the question "who called Ommzigt?" Yesterday we saw him say with a trembling voice: why have I been talking for a week? A week before that, it was discussed that this Prime Minister said: in the meantime, there is no one here, neither do I, he said, who could remember that. "No one tipped me off, but by chance this morning at 7:30: via via." Does the Prime Minister realize he's no longer in a position to hold that back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u233	The discussion last week was about: Overzigt, function elsewhere. I told NOS and RTL: I did not bring in Omtzigt myself. It now appears that this has happened, in the sense of a possible ministerial position following earlier statements made by others in the campaign. I think that's two different things. However, what I said to journalists 'I did not mention Omtzigt', I did mention him. That's wrong. My memory is lacking there. This morning at 7:30 this message, an hour and a half earlier than others could read their pieces. By the way, probably. It wasn't: this is it. It was... via. And: probably mentioned in the pieces anyway. I doubt what this has brought me in this debate. Anyway, you can talk about that longer. But I agree with Mr Azarkan: it is my sacred duty to ensure that such a route cannot function again. He's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u234	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u235	But doesn't that mean that in this swamp of lies, to which one is added in my opinion, we can actually do nothing but just go back to being a detective? Mr Rutte leaves us nothing but to see if we can find out from the other side who had those interview reports. It would also be strange under your Presidency, I say, that there are scouts who are in contact with people, and that information that I have expressed in confidence with two scouts and a reporter simply gets through to third parties? Mr President, I do not feel safe with that. So I ask Mr Rutte once again: do you realize that you leave the Chamber no choice but to go back to playing detective? And that we have to get the players here and ask them to find out eventually? Again, I find that an extraordinary insult from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u236	I would like to support Mr Baudet's proposal. That's the first thing. Secondly, imagine Baudet didn't ask that question. We'd never have known about this. Then you wouldn't have thought: this wasn't only rather clumsy, but also a contempt of the rest. We all had to wait for our interview report. We didn't see it until this morning. While you're part of the discussion about Omtzigt, you'll get that signal. Have you not thought for one moment that is the question that Mr Azarkan asked, but which has not been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u237	I think I should answer Baudet's question honestly. I did. Two: I agree with Azarkan that I have to make sure that I close one of those via route that apparently did something this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u238	You can avoid so many problems at this stage by saying it yourself. This kind of thing, you know, it always comes true. You say you're not gonna tell me, but this is gonna come true. You know that yourself, like all the other things you said, like 'we're not gonna have a debate'. It's coming anyway. You can hold it off, but I would sincerely ask you to just give me that name. 'Cause I think we're gonna turn the scout's office upside down and then we're gonna hear it anyway. So one more time, tell me. Seriously, just say the name of who you heard this from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u239	I've given that answer a few times. I don't do that, after consideration. I thought it wise that the President should give us an opportunity to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u240	To be honest, maybe because it's White Thursday, I have to think about Via Dolorosa. But we know how it ended. I would indeed ask Mark Rutte, as a Member of Parliament, once again to use a period, perhaps the second, to check whether there is still a way in which he can still share the name in a sound, confidential way. This is a deep crisis of confidence that has arisen from a failed process. I think that many of the questions that others and I too have to explore are about the second part: how can we fundamentally change this process, which has failed, so that there can be confidence in future exploration and formation as well as the confidence and prestige of politics a first step of recovery can be offered. I know that you may have thought like Hans van Mierlo: let us try with the truth. But the one-after-last example of the Via non-Dolorosa is precisely not useful in the whole process of truth finding. Perhaps you can use the period until the second term. Or perhaps the President has a directional proposal on how we can come out in a way that is appropriate and to the satisfaction of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u241	Always willing to reflect on it, of course. You're asking me about my position. My position is this one, but I'm always willing to reflect further on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u242	Let's see Mrs Kaag. Mr Baudet has made a proposal to invite the two scouts. I am going to ask whether or not everyone is supporting this. Do you support this or do you say that in the second term I want an answer from Mr Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u243	In this case, I would like to give more time to Mark Rutte and also to you, perhaps to find another solution, perhaps an additional moment of suspension. I can imagine that, when it comes to people who do not want to get into publicity, there can be a way in which confidentially sharing a name or function can be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u244	And what exactly do you expect from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u245	As chairman, you're dealing with the reconnaissance process, this Chamber. Perhaps you have some additional ideas from your experience. It's also a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u246	I'm in charge of the trial. The Chamber will cover the entire formation from reconnaissance to forming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u247	Well, then it's up to the entire Chamber and you as chairman. Maybe you have some suggestions, too. That is my question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u248	I'd like to leave it with the Chamber. If the Chamber as a whole gives me an order, I will perform it with love.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u249	This incident reeks of abuse of power. It raises the question whether there have been other post-election moments in the process of reconnaissance in which Mr Rutte has been given information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u250	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u251	Is he sure about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u253	Are you sure you shouldn't say...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u254	I already told you that I spoke to the scouts after the incident last Thursday, both in the personal relationship to say that I thought it was very intense what happened to them, and to get it confirmed again, that I have just explained whether my picture is correct that there was no mention of Pieter Ommzigt, at least not in my conversation. And that's what they wrote to the Chamber later. So I've already told you. And this is the honest answer to Thierry Baudet's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u255	No, Mr. Baudet. I see you, but we have rules here, and you have to respect them. You have spoken and you have a point of order. I'm in the process of giving everyone the floor, and then I'll come back to your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u256	Mr President, I have one final question. Does that mean that Mr Rutte says that in the process of reconnaissance he only had contact with these scouts once, who are now in the field, and with the new scouts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u257	Just so you know, I haven't had any contact with these scouts, other than the conversation you and I had. Then I made a phone call with them on Thursday and Friday, and on the weekend with Kajsa Ollongren about how she was medically. At that first contact on Thursday or Friday, or both, I asked... in my memory it wasn't about that. They said, "No, not even in our memory." They wrote that down, too. So it was that contact. And this is a signal from this morning, at 7:30 a.m., unsolicited and via.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u258	I see Mr. Hoekstra wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u259	Mrs. Jorritsma says I'm forgetting Tuesday night. What was Tuesday night?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u260	Can I just ask you for a second? Do you have a comment, Mrs Jorritsma? You can make it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u261	It's actually out of order, but on Tuesday evening Mr. Rutte called in a panic about everyone, saying he couldn't talk to us the next morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u262	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u263	I don't want to leave that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u264	That's right, because we had two parliamentary debates back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u265	At that time we had only the two debates in the Chamber, so we then opposed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u266	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u267	That was one more call, but that was all about that subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u268	Tuesday evening I got the signal that Mrs Kaag and I had to appear on Wednesday. I had two major debates planned here. I had contact with both, or one of them, and others at the station, and then said the following. Guys, please don't go on Wednesday; I'm not gonna physically save that, because I'm gonna be in the room all day. That's right; there was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u269	Then I will go to Mr Hoekstra and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u270	I think it was an hour or two ago that I said to you: in the last two weeks, every hour, or at least every day, the chaos has become bigger rather than smaller. We have seen that again in the last one and a half or two hours. Of course, it's very uncomfortable. It is very uncomfortable, because it casts a shadow on how we proceed with each other. I would like to separate three parts and ask Mr Rutte for an answer. So far it has been mainly about this morning's contact, which he himself said: I have a sacred duty to ensure that it does not happen again, and it should not have been. The first question was from Mrs Ploumen: what happened before? The second question is indeed: what is there to do, and I agree with Mrs Kaag on this point when it comes to this morning? And the third question is: if that sacred duty exists, how will it be repaired and how will confidence be restored towards the Chamber? 'Cause I'm really, really worried about what's been going on over the past few days, and what that means for how we're going to move on. Because we can't control that. I have no idea. I have no idea which routes exist or do not exist. So you don't know what to ask about either. I would like an answer on each of those three parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u271	The first question, of course, was the answer I gave to Mrs Ploumen, with the addition of Mrs Jorritsma. On the second question, and so on the third question, I say: it is my job, of course, to ensure that the route, where it reached me unsolicited this morning, does not occur again. That's my job. I say that very loudly to the Chamber. But I don't think it's integrity to dissolve this source here, revealing it. It is my sacred duty to make sure that does not happen again. It happened here once. I gave that answer honestly: an hour and a half earlier than others, I heard what might have been said about the Member of Parliament Pieter Omtzigt. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u272	Of course, this is exactly why it's so uncomfortable. Because we don't know what we don't know. So we have no idea whether things are going well, a little good, not at all good, or excellent, in the background. So I would really like to suggest to Mr Rutte that we still look at what he can do with regard to this morning, but also to look more broadly at how we proceed now. Because trust in this whole process has, of course, suffered great damage on almost every part of that exploration. The question is in a moment's time: how to proceed? This is not a good way for us to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u273	No, I agree. On the first point, it is also a question of mutual trust. And then I ask Mr Hoekstra to trust me. If I say here that I find this unfortunate and that it is my job to ensure that it cannot happen a second time, he can count on us to do it that way. There is no interest in that either, because the next time Baudet comes forward again and he could ask: did it happen again? Then I'll tell you the truth again if it did. I have a job to do to prevent that. On the second point, I think we should discuss it later in the debate. Mr Hoekstra has made his own proposals. I think they are wise to see how you can manage this process again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u274	Just for precision, though. We are about to discuss that second point. I'm talking about the total mess and how to continue the reconnaissance or even stop working with scouts at all. We are going to have an extensive exchange of views on this. This specific point arises from a question by Mr Baudet. That would be science we would not otherwise have had as a Chamber. We don't know what happened now either. We do not know that via-route that Mrs Kaag and others referred to. We cannot therefore check whether it exists or not. I think that is at the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u275	I get that. But I will give you the honest answer about this morning, I will give you the honest answer that it has not happened more often and I will give you the honest answer about direct contact with the informers, at what times that was, with Mrs Jorritsma's addition. That's my job. I say to you that it is also my job to ensure that such a via-route cannot be created again. In the end, that is also the mutual trust. I don't know how I can prove that this happened. I can't, because I don't want to reveal that source.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u276	It's going to be another way of asking about the same subject. I would nevertheless like to consider Mr Rutte to see what he can share. Why? Because that's so important to the sequel. I do understand the sensitivity, we all understand it, but this discussion casts a shadow on a sequel of that I have you there. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u277	Yes, but let's not pretend there's never any informal contact in cabinet formations since World War II. Of course, that happens all the time. The task that we as political leaders of parties have is to ensure that it is integrity and that you have no lead over others. Baudet's question seems to lead that. I don't think I had a head start because I could see their pieces an hour and a half earlier than others, knew: possible, presumably et cetera. Nevertheless, I think it is my job to ensure that it does not happen again. That's the honest answer, Mr. Hoekstra. Unless you have a suggestion on what else you think I could do. But that's my honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u278	I think this is too easy. I really think it's too easy to throw these things into a pile. We can assume that having that information an hour and a half earlier did not give a substantial advantage. People may think differently about that, but you can still argue that that actually didn't matter much. The problem is as follows. We are all here exclusively in our capacity as MPs. All fractions, from a to z, are entitled to the same information, not a millimetre less and not a millimetre more. That's where it gets crooked. So it's not about the hour and a half. It is about the bypasses that exist or perhaps still exist in the future and how the Chamber can assume that they will no longer exist in the future. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u279	I get that. I totally get that question. My answer to that is that, if this happens at some point, I have to tell you what's going on here and where it happened more often. I just did that about direct contact with the informers. And I need to make sure that route is no longer there. That's what I'm saying here. That's my job. Only in this way can I agree with Mr Hoekstra that you can restore confidence. That's my honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u280	What is also playing here, of course, is mistrust because the scouts as they now function, or the former scouts, are too much at the service of the incumbent power. You can hear that ringing again. If there is another special way out of the formation archive, which rests with the explorers, to the leader of the group of the VVD, then you ask: how about that? He says he can't clarify that. Let me now turn to Mr Baudet's request for order. I think it is real that we are asking the explorers: how can it be that information from the archive you hold apparently gets through to the group leader of the VVD? I merely suggest that we do not hold up the debate for that, because then we are again faced with a waste of time. I think we can continue with other questions to the former scouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u281	Yes. I shall go to Mr Baudet's procedural proposal. There are two different proposals. Mr Baudet's proposal is to invite current scouts to the debate. Mr Klaver had suggested that I call them and ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u282	I think it's the same request...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u283	No, wait a minute. I give the floor! So if it's the same thing, let me know. Then I actually want to take a look with everyone... Mrs Kaag has said that it can be done in the second term. Easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u284	I think the proposal is identical. One. We want you to call them, hear their statement right away and tell them to us after the suspension. We want them to be here afterwards and then answer our questions in the first period on the part of Box K. So it's the same question. It is one proposal to suspend now and call immediately "boys, tell us for a moment who all these pieces have become known." Then we'll get that information right away, so within half an hour, I'd say. And then we're gonna ask them right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u285	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u286	That's the logical route. I think the Chamber should be able to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u287	Then let's see if it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u288	I do not want to make it more difficult with all kinds of amendments, but I think it is quite a complicated proposal. I believe that we normally know whether to invite you to the debate or to ask for information. I would say on this point: ask the current scouts for information. Can they inform the Chamber in writing? Then, as far as I am concerned, the debate can continue and then we can look at what we can do with that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u289	So no support for the suspension and then wait. But I assume, or I hope, that the scouts will also follow the debate. But if that has a majority, I'll confirm it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u290	I am afraid that we must take serious account of the fact that this story about the 7.30 a.m. call was intended to distract the attention that Mr Rutte knew, of course, that he had spoken about Mr Omtzigt and that he knew that when he spoke to the press and that he then had contact with the scouts who said: well, I don't know what you said on television, but you said that, you know, in our conversations. So I don't think we should step into the trap that we're suddenly going to focus on a phone call that might have been made up to strengthen Rutte's credibility. I don't believe that. Mr Wilders has already tabled a motion of censure. I didn't want to support that because I thought he wanted to vote right away. I thought I'd like to hear Mr Rutte first. It would benefit the debate if the House were to draw the conclusion which I suspect is going to be that Mr Rutte is going to resign. Then, with the Chamber remaining, we can continue the process of truth finding and reflect with each other on how to proceed. So my point of order is: let us vote on Mr Wilders' motion and then continue the debate with the new scouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u291	But this is a new proposal, Mrs Ouwehand, to vote. First of all, let's take a look at Mr Baudet's proposal for order. You may not speak, you have already spoken. Then I'm going to see Mr Segers. 'Cause I gotta... So there are two rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u292	It is not getting any clearer, so it is indeed good to deal with all the order proposals now. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij's amendment. So we ask for information, that can be done by letter, and we continue the debate. As far as I am concerned, this also applies to Mr Ouwehand's procedural proposal. As far as I am concerned, we shall first continue the debate and vote at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u293	Okay. Then I look at others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u294	I do not think that the debate is useful in the event of yet another suspension. So I will not go along with a suspension in accordance with Mr Baudet's request. I would like to ask you this question, which I asked you about an hour and a half ago, to have an overview of who had access to that information. You can do that by letter. So I support the information request. We must continue with the debate, because I have just heard Mr Rutte say: I called Mrs Ollongren last Thursday and she confirmed that we did not talk about Pieter Ommzigt. I should like to have another explanation on that point. I find that extremely unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u295	But the debate must continue as far as you are concerned. I understand. Mrs. Ploumen. I'm just looking at who's running at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u296	I would like to endorse what Mr Segers said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u297	So continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u298	Support for Mr Baudet's proposal, with one small remark. I would suggest that you first ask the scouts about the answer to Mr Baudet's question, and that, if that answer is unsatisfactory, we bring them to the Chamber afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u299	I think it's important for the bottom stone to emerge in this story, but I have great doubts as to whether that will happen. That is why I would like to support Mrs Ouwehand's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u300	But not Mr Baudet's proposal? No? Okay. Then Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u301	I support Mr Segers' proposal. And I would really like to make another appeal to Mr Wilders... Mr Rutte...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u302	Hello!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u303	...to have found a way to share the name confidentially in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u304	Mrs. Den Haan and Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u305	Of course, I'm new here, so I just want to make sure I understand a few things. We have indeed talked today about a lot of questions that colleagues have asked to Mr Rutte. All the same questions and Mr Rutte gives the same answer each time. It's also about the scouts who turned over to Koolmees and Van Ark. They also indicate that Omtzigt was not a subject of the conversation, but that that passage is based on elsewhere. Then the explorers say that this passage is based on the inventory from several angles, including media reports, and that is destroyed by the former explorers three days later. I also support Mr Wilders' proposal, but I would also suggest that a precise timeline be established for this whole process. That seems to me very much necessary to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u306	So you support Mr Baudet's request or order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u307	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u308	Okay. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u309	We also support the proposal by Mr Baudet and also by Wilders. I would like to add that in Mr Rutte's world you may not have had a head start, but you have certainly had a head start in the world of the rest of the Netherlands and this Chamber. I have one more question. Did you call your source yourself to ask if he or she finds it difficult for you to call him or her as a source? 'Cause then I think we'll be out real quick. You say, "I've decided not to," but maybe that source is watching and thinking, "I'm cool with it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u310	On Mrs van der Plas' first point: she is right about that. Of course you have a head start. I'm just asking politics to weigh how material that is, if you can't do anything with it at the time. But it's true. That is why Mr Hoekstra was right to ensure that it cannot happen again. On the second question: I am not going to go into that further. I can only say here that after weighing I decided not to reveal the source and I am not going to answer any further questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u311	But the source is the most important person right now. If that source now thinks "Mr. Rutte may say he doesn't want to reveal me, but I do want to" and if that source is perhaps in this Chamber, in this building or somewhere outside and thinks "I do," I would advise: come here as soon as possible and say to Mr. Rutte "you may reveal me as a source." That's gonna save you a lot of trouble. Saves a lot of time. It saves scouts who have to come here. I don't understand why... That's a very simple question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u312	But this seems to me to be a question at the source and not to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u313	I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u314	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u315	... whether you'd like to call your source and see if he or she wants to be disclosed. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u316	My answer to Mrs van der Plas is that I have used the suspension to weigh it carefully, and I have come to the conclusion that I do not want to reveal the source or answer any further questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u317	I think it's wise that we stop playing Baantjer here as House of Representatives. I don't think that's why we're together. I think we've already asked a lot of questions and got very few answers. In itself, we can support Mr Baudet's request with the addition of Mr Wilders. Fine if you are going to ask the new explorers for information, but I have just indicated that it is clear to the SP group: this is from the VVD. We think it is important that the debate should continue, because I also have a few questions to ask the ex-explorers and others here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u318	So you support the request for that information, but you also say that the debate should continue. That is not what Mr Baudet is proposing. Then I'll look at Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u319	Support for Mr Segers' proposal. I would like to add one more point. I'm a little worried about what I see here. We are in a discussion where things that come up in one go are no longer recognized or that there is no memory of them, and about things that do have a memory, nothing is actually released. Well, then I'm kind of wondering what kind of governance culture I've gotten into here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u320	Then I have to ask an explanatory question. I'll peel it off. One. My mistake is that I gave the wrong answer last week, although I meant to give the honest answer. This is evident from the record of my conversation with the scouts. The answer I gave was the sincere, honest answer. That's one. Two, also a direct answer to our colleague Baudet, who asked: when did you hear that maybe that name was mentioned or when did you hear about those pieces; did you hear it before us? The answer: I heard at 7.30 p.m., via via, that the report probably refers to the name of Pieter Omtzigt and that it was indeed discussed in the discussion, contrary to my memory. Those are my two answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u321	Of course, we have just heard this, but my question is more: do you understand that, from my position as a new Member of Parliament, I am wondering what kind of administrative culture I have come into?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u322	A governance culture in which we hopefully allow each other to make a mistake as well. I made a mistake last week not having that memory at the time. That's a mistake. I have just pointed out that I hope you and the Netherlands will accept that mistakes are made. Mr Baudet's second question was about something else: when did you even hear what might be in those pieces? I will answer that directly. On one specific point, presumably, Mr Omtzigt has been mentioned in those talks, contrary to my memory. I believe that the culture of governance that we need here is that we recognise that someone can make a mistake and that that mistake must then be admitted and corrected. That's what I'm trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u323	Finally, Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u324	Finally, Madam President. I also hope that we will support a culture of governance which Mr Rutte so sketches, but I would very much like it if Mr Rutte were to try to accommodate that in this Chamber. Then there will really have to be more clarity about what has been happening recently and also about the source that is not being released.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u325	Then I want to hear from you too... Mr. Dassen! I'm just gonna count now. There are two proposals. An order proposed by Mr Baudet to request, suspend and invite the two scouts. The other proposal, by Mr Segers, is to inform me of the questions you have given me, but to allow the debate to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u326	I support Mr Segers' proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u327	Okay. The same question applies to you, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u328	I support the Baudet/Wilders proposal. I told you, Baudet, but Wilders, fine, if you can, by the bell. But before Mr Rutte walks down the stairs again, I would like to ask him: does he understand that it is not just about making a mistake? Does he understand that it's about the principle that we as the Lower House, that no one heard this, except you? You see that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u329	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u330	... this is a basically incorrect course of action and that it is therefore damaging our parliamentary system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u331	Sure. So that forces me to make sure it doesn't happen again. Mr Eerdmans is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u332	Then I'll go to Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u333	I think you just wanted a concrete answer. I support the view of Segers and Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u334	Let's see. Who haven't I had? I haven't had Mr. Klaver yet. I'm just going to count whether there's a majority for one proposal or the other. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u335	The point of "via via" is important for restoring confidence in the process of this exploration operation. The debate does not need to be suspended for that, as far as I am concerned. So we can continue with the debate. That is without prejudice to the fact that I do want the information from the scouts. I would ask you to retrieve that information there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u336	Then... no, Mr. Baudet! You've already been to this point. I want to see who I haven't had yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u337	Me!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u338	You're not allowed to make any decisions. I'm gonna count for a second. I'm counting, but the VVD hasn't spoken out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u339	It seems to me right that I do not say anything about this for a moment and that we do not include the VVD seats in this debate on order. I think that's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u340	Then I would like to propose that the information be requested and that the debate continue. That's what I wanted to suggest. No, no, Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u341	Can we hang on to that for a while? For 4:15 or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u342	No, I'm sorry, Mr. Baudet. I'm going to inform and I'll let you know what's possible and within what time. I now give the floor to Mr Rutte to continue his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u343	Mr. Chairman. Because of all the interruptions, I was able to say what I wanted to say. Perhaps I should just add that I very much hope that this debate will contribute to the fact that, step by step, I have already referred to the proposals from the CDA, but others too are trying to put the formation process back on track. Because it is indeed a mess right now. The Netherlands can't have that for too long. So we must try to get things back on track as soon as possible. Once again, I am very sorry that I said that there is no need for a debate. I explained in what context that was. I very much regret that last week, when I spoke to the NOS and RTL, I replied to my best honour and conscience, but it turned out to be wrong afterwards. I deeply regret that. I don't think that's the same thing as "Override, function elsewhere." I really believe that what I said is about something else, namely what I said about that. I would like to conclude with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u344	May I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u345	A brief remark, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u346	Yes, because I said before: I have two questions. My first question to Mr Rutte was what time he received all that information. The second question is whether he himself thinks that this information came to him, because he is the chairman of the VVD in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u347	Then I refer to what I said earlier...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u348	Or that it came to him as prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u349	Mr. Baudet, just as orderly. If you ask a question, the other should also be able to answer it. Don't talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u350	My answer is: group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u351	So you received that because you're the chairman of the political group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u352	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u353	So there seems to be a line from the scouts to the group chairman of the VVD, who is more direct than the line to the group chairmen of the other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u354	I said earlier that this message reached me through. I am referring to the report on the probably mentioned by Mr Omtzigt, other than in my memory, given the notes and the report of the conversation I had with the scouts last Monday. When was it, last Monday? Well, at least about two weeks ago, on that particular Monday morning, when we were all received by the scouts. I was given that information as chairman of the VVD's political group. Then the question was: can you report the source that transmitted that suspected signal via? I have responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u355	One last question. I feel a little like Columbo at the end of Mr Rutte's speech, but can Mr Rutte indicate how he reacted when he found out at 7:30 this morning that he had talked about Pieter Omtzigt? How was his reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u356	Shocked, because I didn't know what was there either. I didn't know if it was really in there or what it said. I didn't see that until 11:00 when the pieces were distributed, because I didn't want to use that time lock of nine to ten. So I finally saw that when the pieces were distributed. In doing so, I realized that I had given wrong information to RTL and the NOS, that my memory was wrong and that there was talk about Omtzigt. Not in the sense of "function elsewhere," but there has been talk about Omtzigt. I blame myself, of course, for making that mistake. But, yeah, I made him unconscious, because I honestly don't have that memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u357	Mr Segers and then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u358	I would like to go back to the heart of this debate once more, or at least to what is at the heart of the debate with Mr Rutte. It's one thing he didn't tell the truth. That is one thing, but the second is that, as far as I am concerned, it is the core issue that has been discussed about a ministership. It says, "You have to do something with Omtzigt." It says there's been talk about the presidency. So it has been discussed in all kinds of ways. The number of votes for Mr Omtzigt was discussed in relation to the number of votes for Mr Hoekstra. So there's been a lot of talk about it, in the sense of "you have to do something with him." My big question is why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u359	Then I would like to take the different elements separately. One is that, of course, I also spoke to them in that conversation about other political parties, which we would very much like to see them join the cabinet. I think that is perfectly understandable and I remember it that way. I said: you will have to wait and see how the CDA ends with the preferred votes. You can see that in the report. That is one of the themes. You can imagine that it is something like this in the report before that moment, but I also remember the conversation that is unwise to continue talking about it if the CDA wants to come and talk about it at all. That in that particular point. There was talk about Omtzigt along lines that I do recognize, because I had discussed it with Hoekstra earlier. So it does not say anything that I find strange about that ministership, because it was part of the conversation I had with Hoekstra earlier, as we both have just outlined here. So I'm not surprised at the content of that. But that's what happened, because that's not my memory. I checked that memory with the two scouts, and they didn't have that memory either. That's also written on paper. I am therefore incredibly disappointed by this, because I have indeed given incorrect information to NOS and RTL, as you say. I do not recognize that phrase about the presidency either, because it also mentions the VVD by name. I'm saying about that Chamber Presidency, too, which I do recognize. "Listen, boys, the VVD should not try to get all the jobs in the Netherlands as the biggest party. We already have the Chairmanship of the First Chamber. We're already the biggest party. Is that wise?" In that potpourriet of notes it is also about Omtzigt, but again not in my memory and certainly not brought in by me, because I wouldn't recognize that either. I recognize that point of that ministry. I do not remember talking about this, but what is there is in itself no different from what I had discussed with one of our colleagues earlier. But that point of the Chamber Presidency is a potpourri I cannot make chocolate out of at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u360	It is very strange that you are talking about a presidency and the presidency and about all kinds of matters...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u361	So it's not about the presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u362	There's a whole record of that. That really is almost a verbatim report of sentences and objections. So that's what we've been talking about. Then the common thread is not the ministry, but "function elsewhere"? Then the common thread is: this is a difficult MP. Then the red thread: that Pieter Omtzigt looks like a kind of hummingbird...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u363	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u364	...that you need to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u365	That's just not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u366	When I read the pieces and see what's going on there, that's at least the image I get. That brings me to the question: how do we deal with power and counterpower? That's the core for me. We have heard that the memory has not been adequate. We all have our feelings about that. But the essence is: how do we deal in the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet with difficult MPs who ask the right questions and occasionally bite calves and don't let go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u367	Mr Segers now concludes that I was working there to turn to some place. It just isn't! The VVD doesn't do that. That was never our intention. Never, never, never! I spoke to Hoekstra the previous Friday and said: "You mention his name for a ministership; I also understand that you do so in the context of the campaign. If we ever came to form, we could discuss this." I recognize that in the report. That potpourri about the presidency doesn't come from me. Let's get to the inf... Let's ask her if she remembers where that came from. But there's no way I thought "we're gonna make him President of the Chamber" or anything like that. That ministerial is something other than "function elsewhere." So I really want to try to get Mr Segers out of his head that the VVD was there promoting a critical MP. It just isn't. I've been working with Pieter Ommzigt since 2003, since he became a spokesperson. We were both here yesterday. It was installed for the fifth time and I was installed for the sixth time. I was Secretary of State for Social Affairs. We worked intensively together on pensions back then. Later on, we worked very intensively as Prime Minister in all Europe debates. We've faced each other many times. Luckily, most of the time, they've found each other. We have had a serious debate here with Hoekstra and Van Huffelen on the child care allowance affair. He has had that debate fairly; he has had it from a point of view to a point of view. He's an excellent MP. There's no one in the VVD who's gonna say, "We're gonna promote him or move him to another place." That's not the issue, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u368	Then there's my last question. Does Mr Rutte understand that that suggestion is woken up by that passage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u369	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u370	Does Mr Rutte understand that if you read this after the premium affair, after all the questions, and also after the anger and indignation of Mr Omtzigt, who felt that he did not get the bottom stone, this is indeed the impression you get? You see some sort of desperate quest and a "we need to get rid of that man." That's really the impression I get.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u371	I get it. I understand, but then there's something like trust. Mr. Segers, you and I have been working together for four years now, intensively, in a coalition. I don't think I ever cheated on you. I'm not at all someone who's cheating on colleagues here. I made a mistake here. My memory of whether that name was mentioned was wrong. What motive do I have for not saying, if I did mention him there in the context of something even the CDA's list leader mentioned in the campaign, that I did not mention "function elsewhere," but I did mention Omtzigt in the context of a ministership, also according to Hoekstra in the campaign? What motive do I have not to report that? The point was that I don't remember that. And the two scouts don't remember that either. That is the misery we are in, which now creates the atmosphere that we were sneaking around there to get him out. It just isn't. And it's also ultimately a matter of trust, Mr Segers, whether you look each other in the eye and trust each other and say, "Do I trust this Rutte that he had no other motives here, or are you cheating on Rutte?" The answer to that is an answer only you can give.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u372	We read in those pieces that it says, "There must be something about Omtzigt." Quite apart from the question of whether this should be discussed in an exploration, that does not sound like something positive. We were able to read: "Override, function elsewhere." We were able to read: "Omtzigt Chairman of the Second Chamber." That is not a 'job', by the way, but a job of honour, the face of democracy. Mr Rutte has no memory that Mr Omtzigt has been mentioned in his discussion. I ask him the same question as Mr Segers asked: how can we believe that this is the case? How is it that he and two scouts have no memory of any mention being made of one of the most remarkable politicians in this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u373	If I am trying to explain that, it can only be because it went by in one side, similar to a conversation I had with the former CDA leader of the CDA. That's the only way I can explain that to myself: that that was such a domestic subject that was in my head because the CDA had mentioned it. Maybe I mentioned it for that reason, but I don't remember mentioning it there. And why would I lie about that? What is wrong with that remark if it is nothing but what was suggested by the CDA? Then why couldn't I have told you that last week and why couldn't I have said: boys, I didn't talk about "function elsewhere" and I did talk about Omtzigt, namely in that and that context? What would be against that? So there's no motive. And here too, Mrs Ploumen, we have worked together for five years and it is ultimately also a matter of looking each other in the eye and saying: do we believe that man? That's up to you. I've explained that here for two hours. There's no motive for me to keep anything from you. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Waarom zou ik?]] And did I bribe two scouts and say to them, "Should you keep this quiet?" That's not the point. And what I'm saying is nothing exciting. That had already been discussed in the campaign. So I don't think I have any motive to keep that piece of text a secret. I just didn't. And I hate that, too. Like everyone else, I think it's a jerk that I don't remember, but unfortunately I'm not alone in that either. And it's wrong. Then in the end, it's the trust you have to have: do we trust him in that? I ask that again, not to get an answer to that now, but to consider: what is the motive and what have I seen this man do more in our mutual relationships? I think I've been with everyone in this Chamber... How did I manage for ten and a half years, and I hope that in the years to come I'll be able to do it again with complicated coalition babynets, creating majorities here in the Chamber and also in the First Chamber, if I'm not reliable as an interlocutor? I think my reputation is that I am. This sucks that I didn't know that. That is exactly what I am saying. And at the same time there is absolutely no motive to not have reported it last week if I had remembered that. There is nothing exciting there: "Omzigt minister" had already been discussed in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u374	I would remind Mr Rutte that it says: 'There must be something about omtzigt'. Again, that has a different connotation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u375	Yes, but that is not an agreed text, because I do not know at all that we have discussed it. I don't have to agree to that either. It's just notes from people sitting there. Because I don't even remember that part of the conversation, I don't know how we deal with it... Probably very briefly and perhaps also in a kind of "after-echo" of what I had discussed with Hoekstra a few days before. That's the only explanation I can have for that. What's it called when you forget something? Amnesia. That's the only way I can explain this. But once again: the motive is also missing not to say "yes, I've discussed it, and this way." That's what I would have done, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u376	Mr Rutte has now asked the question 25 times: what could be my motive for wanting "Pieter Omtzigt, function elsewhere"? Maybe I should give him a hand. Let Pieter Omtzigt have been the one who, of course together with our Renske Leijten, got the supplemental scandal above the table. Let it be so that the bottom stone is still not from above. Let it be the case that there is still a parliamentary inquiry coming. If Mr Rutte wants to go through in a next cabinet, then Mr Rutte does not feel like a Pieter Ommzigt, who, together with Renske, has bitten himself into this, will perhaps operate as the group chairman of the CDA. So I do not think Mr Rutte has to ask here twenty times what his motive would be. In my opinion, anyone who follows politics is perfectly capable of explaining the motive for this. I also have a question. At some point in the report we can also read: 'all kinds of about PO'. Very sad, but that means of course: all kinds of about Pieter Ommzigt. So there are all kinds of things discussed about PO. That's what it says right here. For this reason, Mr President, Mr Rutte's question is just one final question. He has now said that he would once have discussed with Mr Hoekstra something about Pieter Omtzigt, about a possible ministerial post. He talked to the former scouts about it. We know that by now, because it was in the notes. Did you at any other time, with another person, in another gremium or in any other contact with someone talk about another function, or at all the role of Pieter Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u377	No! And the VVD also has no intention or intention of achieving "Pieter Ommzigt, function elsewhere." I've explained that once and again. Mrs Marijnissen is now making an entire case, namely that I apparently think because of the terrible child allowance affair: "Oh, what do we do with him? And where can he end up?" It's just not true. It's not true. Then why should I talk to Hoekstra about it openly? If that were to be the case, it could, of course, be the case as far as we are concerned. We do not have an opinion on this at all. That's what the CDA is about in that scenario. He said I'm not gonna talk to you about a cabinet at all, but good to know. That was following his remarks in the campaign. I have also just outlined the collaboration I have had with Pieter Ommzigt in recent years. So here's what's going on here. We've been talking about it for two and a half hours. There is no line at the VVD to get Pieter Ommzigt somewhere else. We have no idea at all where he comes into his own best. There's only one party about that, and that's the CDA, if they were going to rule by now. If they're not gonna rule, they're gonna decide for themselves what he's gonna do in the group. That's not up to me. There's no line behind that. There's no policy on that. What's in there about that ministry is also so explainable. Me and the others just don't remember us talking about it. But if we had remembered that, I could have just brought it out last week, because a ministership is really something other than "function elsewhere." Otherwise, Hoekstra has already argued in the campaign for a position elsewhere for Omtzigt, and of course he did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u378	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u379	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. It says here in the discussion report, which was written after the discussion with Mr Rutte: "Anything about Pieter Ommzigt." One of the scouts ran with a note underneath the arm that said, "Pieter Overzigt, function elsewhere." Mark Rutte has now asked ten times the question: what motive could I have for this Pieter Ommzigt? Well, I told him what the motive might be, which is that Omtzigt is a critical MP he prefers not to have and who he prefers to wield elsewhere. That's what happened here. Mark Rutte didn't tell the truth about that. That's a fact. He doesn't have any memories of it either, like all the other people who happened to be in space and who don't have any memories of it either. But the pieces really show something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u380	My point about motive was about the sense of the ministry. If I had known that we had talked about this, why wouldn't I have just reported it to NOS and RTL last week? Then I could have just said: no, I did not talk about a position elsewhere; I did talk about Omtzigt and I said the following. Then why would I categorically say it wasn't over? That's what I'm asking the motive for. I understand that Mrs Marijnissen says: 'Omtzigt' and 'Rutte' have once had their clashes. That's right, yes, also about Europe. We always figured that out. And the debate here on the child care allowance affair has been extremely fair. I have had every opportunity to defend myself and he has taken every opportunity to question the cabinet firmly. That was a very good and extensive debate about a terrible affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u381	The final questions, and then I'll keep going. We have 15 more speakers and I have to make a phone call in between. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u382	Certainly, Mr. President, and you're doing an excellent job. I am not yet satisfied with the Prime Minister's reply on one point. I've noticed that he's getting a little creepy and going to speak a little louder, so at least we're on the right track. Well, the Prime Minister said that I made a phone call to Mrs. Ollongren last Thursday. That means that at that moment he might have thought: I'm going to check if I've said anything. That's right. He nods; he says yes. That means that the follow-up is that Mrs Ollongren said in that phone call that she apparently cannot remember saying anything about it either, as the Prime Minister says. I can't imagine... I'm gonna say it one more time. I have also been allowed to walk among officials for a number of years and to work for Mr Stef Blok. It is impossible for Mrs Ollongren to say anything about that from her head. "Mr. Rutte, you may doubt it and want to ask me, but I'm not saying that out of my head." Has Mr Rutte not thought at some point with Mrs Ollongren to check that out? Why wait until 7:30 a.m. to get a phone call from a guy we don't know? Why didn't you check it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u383	I get that question. Maybe I also have a question to the President or to the former scouts about how at that time the relationship is between a retired scout and the official staff. Do you still have access to those pieces? I don't know exactly the answer to that, but I thought you wouldn't have that access anymore. I think we have all given an answer from memory. I had to do it from memory anyway. I asked them, too. I just don't remember talking about it, anyway, not about "function elsewhere," but not at all. That is why I gave the answer at night that we did not talk about it. I didn't do that because they said so, because of course I did it on the basis of my own memory, but of course you also check with the other: do you have a different memory? No, it's not. Your question is whether they have access to the officials and documents. Again, maybe we should check that out. I don't think so, but we can check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u384	But what...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u385	Mr. Azarkan, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u386	But what reason did you start to doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u387	Yeah, because of course you want to be sure. You talk 45 minutes about all kinds of topics. In my memory, it wasn't about Pieter Ommzigt, other than the question of how it would end with the preferred voices in the CDA. But of course that wasn't about his position. That was my memory. I checked with the two of them. Is that right? Do you guys have that memory? Doesn't that make sense when something like that plays? It wasn't about "function elsewhere" anyway, but I did ask if it was even about it. The answer was no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u388	So your memory failed you. You wanted to check it, so you relied on Mrs. Ollongren's memory. That's not credible, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u389	Mr. Azarkan, you really set a bad example to new MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u390	At the risk of asking a very stupid question, but I'm new here, as you know. Surely there can be no discussion with scouts about persons at all? We are talking about whether or not you have a reminder of comments about Pieter Omtzig, but the exploration was, in my opinion, about how you look at a coalition and how you make your own points of view. In my active memory, it is true that I did not get to know that I was also allowed to talk about persons, certainly not about elected MPs. So let's go back to the core, to what we're talking about here. Whether or not you have a memory of it and how it turned out with how many sources there are: Pieter Ommzigt should never have been mentioned in that conversation. Can we talk about that? Can you take responsibility for that? Can you say I should never have done this? Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren should have said at the time you spoke the word "Pieter': no, hoho, we are not going to do this. That is what I think this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u391	That's not how I know the trial, that you shouldn't be talking about people at all. In my memory, at least it wasn't about this person. That's a question about the process, and I can't answer it. But that's not how I know the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u392	Well, I think you're okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u393	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u394	I'm new. Of course you can talk about people, but I do not think about who should be given what position and whether there should be any other function at all. I find it strange at all that a VVD-lister is going to talk about all kinds of things about Omtzigt. I would like to talk about this, because this gives us a pass to perhaps do this again with another reconnaissance. That's what I think you've made the biggest mistake with. You've even mentioned Pieter Omtzigt with a position elsewhere, whether you remember it or not, because we'll never get out of it. But that's the point. And you have to answer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u395	That's a question of the process. To my best knowledge, that is not as tightly protocoled as Mrs Van der Plas is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u396	Then I'll go to Mrs. Ouwehand. Then I have Mr Wilders and finally Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u397	I want to conclude in the deadline...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u398	Sorry, Mr. Klaver, I forgot about you. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u399	I would like to conclude in Mr Rutte's term that he has also spoken on behalf of the VVD Group. We have to come to the conclusion that the VVD, in Mr Rutte's person, felt that it was necessary to speak at the exploratory stage about the deactivation of a critical MP and that Mr Rutte then raised all kinds of smokescreens. He's asking a question again, that's not the point at all here, but that's what he's doing smartly: what motive would I have to lie about that? Well, we know the pattern. Let's see if you can get away with that lying thing. Just tell the press, no, I didn't. You see if you can keep a piece underneath each other's hats. Only when it's untenable, when you know that you can't get away with it and that information comes out, you'll quickly come up with something else. That is the conclusion to be drawn here. The conclusion of the Party for Animals was after three seconds input from Mr Rutte here: we can no longer trust this man; we can no longer say that we trust him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u400	I refer to the rest of the debate, which shows that I disagree with this. Maybe that's best for short notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u401	Then I'm gonna ask you one more time for the rest of the trial. I cannot imagine the House rejecting the motion of censure. All this was fully in line with the VVD Group, supported by the VVD Group. The entire VVD group therefore supports the words of Mr Rutte here today and the story he has tried to sell us today. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u402	The VVD Group knows and supports what I am saying here, and therefore does not agree with Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u403	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u404	I ask this because, after the conclusion of today's debate, we must also see which Chamber we are sitting here with. Mr Rutte will have to leave; so much is clear. But the VVD Group has backed this unbelievable line of defence, with which the VVD group actually says: yes, we are fine with playing games with the stature of the Chamber. So the Party for Animals concludes that the VVD Group can't co-exist if there are still formation talks with this Chamber. That's why I'm asking these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u405	Mrs Ouwehand, in your speech there are so many insinuations and assumptions about what I have done there. I would actually like to propose, also because of the time, to refer to everything I have said about this earlier, which shows that I disagree with it from a to z. There was no motive at the VVD to lead Pieter Ommzigt to a function elsewhere. I didn't mean to. The ministership had already been brought into the campaign by someone else and could thus have ended up in the conversation. At least I have no memory of that, but it's on paper, so that memory is wrong. Those are all the points we have made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u406	As much as I would like to go into more detail about the terms 'honour' and 'knowledge', I would like to join Mrs van der Plas in her question. Your answer to that question is that you are not aware that this has been protocold in such a way. There's nothing protocoled around the reconnaissance process. There are no laws governing how that process should proceed. There is also no protocol on confidentiality. If that confidentiality has been violated, by mistake in this case, then of course it is very strange for you to say that you must stick to it, that you do not want to answer sources that you access via, and that you do not comply with the requests to indicate when information has been exchanged between you and the scouts. In the absence of these protocolary circumstances, can you just answer the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u407	The question about the source, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u408	The question that Mrs Van der Plas has asked you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u409	Again, my view or my knowledge of the process is that if necessary, again, that it had been about Pieter Omtzigt, I do not recall that it is not prohibited in an exploration to talk about persons as well, if that is appropriate for the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u410	Now Mrs Van der Plas is new here and that may be a reason why she doesn't know what you're saying. I'm new too, and I don't know that either. Then I wonder: why do we not know this and do you think that is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u411	Isn't that a matter where we're both MPs? That is not something in which I have a different responsibility than you, I say through the President. We both have the same responsibility in it, don't we? Apparently there is a misunderstanding between me and Mrs Van der Plas, about how I interpret it, about how you and Mrs Van der Plas interpret it. Well, we'll have to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u412	So it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u413	I can't answer that, can I? I'm not President of the Chamber. I'm also a Member of the Chamber. Besides, the President of the Chamber probably cannot give that answer either. That seems to me to be a matter for evaluation, to see if there are clear enough rules of the game for a reconnaissance. Of course, that reconnaissance was created once because we took the whole process away from the head of state. We tried to put that together as best we could. With each other. I've had no other role or position in that than other MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u414	No one's saying that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u415	Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u416	No one here claims that Mr. Rutte had a role in that. That's not the issue at all. Mrs Van der Plas has asked a question about whether or not to discuss persons during the exploration period. Your answer to that is that it has not been protocoled in this way. My answer to this question is: 'Will you, like me, know that nothing has been protocoled around the exploration process?'
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u417	Apart from those protocols, it's a lot more interesting: what would you think was decent? I think it is decent to be reluctant to do so, of course, but you cannot entirely rule out the fact that in an exploratory process it is also sometimes about people. You can't rule that out in advance, I think, but that's a matter we need to discuss. I can't answer that in black and white. I'm one of the 150s there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u418	Then I will go to Mr Klaver and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u419	I'm being mentioned here in person anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u420	Mrs van der Plas, you do not have the floor. I will go to Mr Klaver and Mr Wilders and then ask you a question. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u421	Much remains to be done, but I have one more question for Mr Rutte. Earlier in this debate, you pointed out that you did remember talking about Mr Omtzigt's preferred votes. That's what you remember. That's what it was about. Did you always remember that? Since when do you remember that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u422	Clever question. No. Again, I don't remember talking about Pieter Ommzigt in the sense of positions. But I did remember, when I read the report, that we were talking about the situation in the CDA and that it was wise to wait until the preferred votes were known.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u423	So my question is: when did you realize that you had talked about Pieter Omtzigt when it was about the CDA's preferred votes and stability? I am not asking about the functions now, because you have been clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u424	I remember the issue of the preferred votes in the CDA in that sense. Yeah, that's right. But that's not about positions, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u425	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u426	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I deliberately ask short questions because I may need longer for a single question, and that is because of the following. What do I charge Mr Rutte the hardest? That's what he said in front of the camera: I didn't talk about Pieter Ommzigt. When he says "it has been about the CDA and it has been about the preferred votes," he has indeed spoken about Pieter Ommzigt, and then he remembers it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u427	That's what I mean in terms of positions, "function elsewhere" or something else. That's what I cared about. And it turns out it was about the ministry. But this wasn't about Pieter Ommzigt in the sense of a position, was it? Here it was about Pieter Omtzigt and the question: how does the preferred voting issue end? That was mainly related to the question of what a good time to talk to the CDA. I thought it appropriate to help the process by saying: let us wait until we know how the discussion on the preferred votes ends in the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u428	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u429	However, I think this is an important point. We've had a week of trouble about who talked about Pieter Ommzigt. You said in front of the camera "I didn't do that; I didn't talk about Pieter Ommzigt at any time," although you did. And you weren't honest about that at the time. I think that is a missed opportunity, because that shows something, namely the interpretation of the question: what should I be honest about and what not? It could have prevented a lot of stuff we're in right now. So you knew that you had talked about Pieter Ommzigt and about the CDA. When you were asked "Did you talk about our colleague Pieter Omtzigt?', Did you say "no" in front of the camera?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u430	But in the interpretation that it was about functions, jobs and "what will he do later, after the elections?', But not in the sense of the question: what is the right time to continue the conversation with the CDA? That is not what Pieter Omtzigt comes by in the context of a function, but in the context of the stability of the party and "maybe it will have consequences if he achieves more preferred votes than the list leader?'. It seemed appropriate to me to agree to have further conversations with the CDA if you knew how that would end. That's something else, isn't it? If Mr Klaver says that I should have taken that into account when I said 'it didn't go over Pieter Omtzigt' 'in my head 'in combination with functions' 'I say here: I should have mentioned that more precisely. But there is no point in that, because the discussion was not about preferred votes; the discussion was about "function elsewhere."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u431	Finally, and then I will go to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u432	The interesting thing is this. Mr Rutte starts his defence in the Chamber today saying: I had no memory of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u433	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u434	Then it turns out that he does have a memory of that, but that he only found part of those memories relevant. That did not come up in the debate until colleagues here asked if you knew. So in the debate, you change your line of defence. At first you have no memory of it at all, but then you have a reminder that it was Pieter Omtzigt, but not when it was a post elsewhere or as a minister or whatever. You start with: I have no memory of talking about Pieter Ommzigt. And that's wrong. You're admitting that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u435	Then I should have said "about Pieter Omtzigt in relation to functions," but besides, of course, it was also about the question: what are good moments to continue the conversation with the CDA? Surely that is inevitable in such a conversation with me as foreman of the VVD with the desire to rule with the CDA? Then you also want to know how the issue of perhaps the preferred votes ends in the end? I had a very unpleasant experience of that myself in 2006. So you want to know. That may also determine the atmosphere in such a party. I can't judge all that exactly, but in the confidentiality of the conversation, of course, that happens. It is quite clear that we are talking here about Pieter Omtzigt in relation to the remark 'function elsewhere', in relation to what I have said about the ministry. That is quite different from the broader question of stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u436	Prime Minister Rutte, now in his capacity as chairman of the VVD, has been here for a few hours. We've heard enough about his lies, his machinations with the truth, his lack of memory. I think it might be good, after that number of hours, to take a short look at this intermediate stage in the debate. Yes, Mr. Rutte, you may not want to hear it, but you're completely isolated. You are completely isolated, if you look at what Mrs Kaag says for example: here separate our ways; the greatest good is individual integrity. Mr Hoekstra: I want an honest answer; it casts a shadow over the continuation of that I have you there. But also parties outside your coalition: GroenLinks, SP, Party of Labour... I'd almost like to say, "Who doesn't?" You're all alone. You've been filed in the House of Representatives today. You've had 12 political knives in your back because people don't trust you anymore. And, before we all say, "Come up with this evidence again and with that," do you realize that now, after hours of standing here, you're almost all alone, that you've lost all your friends?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u437	I stand here to defend myself; that I did not lie, but made a mistake. The first mistake about that debate. The second mistake, it turns out, my memory was wrong. I'm standing here defending myself; that's what I'm doing here. And I do that passionately, because I think it's necessary. This is the forum of democracy, here we do it with each other. And what that then means for the position of other parties... Well, I finally have to accept that, see what happens and which way that goes. And I look people in the eye. I didn't do anything wrong here on purpose. It appears that a mistake has been made; you can see that in the report. But not with the intention of lying about it last week, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u438	That's not my point. You know, there was once a Gulf War, in which an Iraqi Defense Minister in front of CNN's camera said it was, I believe, from: it is going very well; we are going to win that war, we are passionately fighting that war. And behind him the bombs fell and his whole country fell into ruin. That reminds you a little bit. You think you're passionate here, but everyone around you is abandoning you. You're on your own. I have heard no one here, actually no one, express full support for you and your story and your message and your statement. So you're all alone, and I'm just wondering if you realize that, too. That was my question, not why you're standing here; I understand that. But whether you realize that and whether you don't realize that Mark Rutte's time as Prime Minister, who has faith in the Chamber and who has faith in the country, may well be over today. Do you realize what happened here in the last six hours? You've defended yourself and you've been criticized. And actually, again, I'm speaking on my own behalf about what I've heard. There aren't many colleagues who say, well done, Mark, we trust you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u439	Prime Minister, or party chairman of the VVD, of a large party, is all about character. It is always about being willing, if mistakes are made, to look the others, the auditors, and in this case my fellow auditors, and say: that is what went wrong, that is what I take responsibility for, that should have been different. And then there is always the fundamental question: is there trust? There always is. And all I can do here is tell from the bottom of my heart, from my toes, what happened, what went well, what didn't go well, that I didn't cheat or lie anywhere here, that I told the truth here. Yeah, mistakes have been made. And the Netherlands is also, in my opinion, a country where we forgive each other mistakes. In my opinion, over the last 10.5 years, I have always shown my willingness to solve difficult problems for this country, to create complex coalitions and majorities together, and I would very much like to continue doing so in the years to come. But that's what I'm doing here. And it is up to Mr Wilders to decide how he himself votes on his own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u440	Madam President, finally. I'm almost starting to feel sorry for Mr. Rutte. It's almost getting pathetic. He's sitting again... He does not answer my question, and he completely ignores what every journalist, every Dutchman, has seen in the debate today in the last few hours. He's seen a swirling Rutte. A swirling Rutte, who is gasping for air, and is no longer believed by anyone. Then let me help you out. We shall see in a moment, I cannot predict in advance how my motion will be voted on, but I have seen the debate. And I've been here as leader of the biggest, for the time being, opposition party, and I've seen that you're totally alone. That your friends from the coalition didn't help you, they criticized you. That almost everyone in the opposition has left you alone, you have criticised and often said that they do not believe you and that they think you lied. We are sitting here with 150 Members in the Chamber, and if there are 10, apart from your own group, who have supported you, then it is a lot. You must come out of your fairy tale world, Mr Rutte, and also Mr Rutte, and that your own words are always one time not thinking of the importance of Mark Rutte, but of the importance of the Netherlands. And the Netherlands needs a prime minister who can bow, in this time of crisis with corona and with the economic crisis, to support in the House of Representatives. Broad support in the Lower House, that is our national interest. Just let go of that creepy bitch shit. Go for the Netherlands. Get up. You do the Netherlands a favor with that. We need a prime minister who is widely supported in the Lower House of States General. As of today, you won't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u441	I am proud that in recent years I have been allowed to lead this country through an economic recession, a refugee crisis and now a very serious health crisis, a pandemic. I look forward to working with new coalition parties in a new coalition in the coming years to restore this country. One thing is essential. That's because you never cheat on anyone. That is also the question that members of this House of Representatives have to ask themselves: has he ever cheated on me? Do I think he's capable of that? I'm not screwing with you. I don't fool other people around here. I'm telling the truth here. There are mistakes, absolutely, but I am telling the truth here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u442	Thank you, Mr. Rutte. Then I'll suspend for five minutes to make a call in between. Then we will continue the debate. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u443	Before I give Mrs Kaag the floor, I report that I have contacted the scouts and that a letter will be sent within half an hour. As soon as that letter is in, it will be mailed and sent around. Before I give the floor to Mrs Kaag, I would like to say that it is the first time that many group chairmen have spoken. It's common in this house for a maiden speech to be made. However, given the particularity of this day and of this debate, they have all indicated that they do not use the tradition of not being interrupted during their maiden speech. I now give the floor to Mrs Kaag on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u444	Madam President. Two weeks ago, the Netherlands went to the ballot box. In the middle of a pandemic, in the biggest crisis since World War II. The voters gave us their vote, in the confidence that it will be handled with the utmost care, from the first day after the elections. The substantive challenges are great and the formation of a cabinet is often complicated. What was or seemed to be in our power was a correct process. It didn't work. That's what we talked about this morning. While the Netherlands hoped that we would focus directly on the major challenges of economic recovery, a real approach to the climate crisis, the opportunity crisis in education, the inequality in society and the steady crumbling of the rule of law, people see that some representatives went to explorers to talk about positions of other politicians. This has extremely painful consequences. Not only for a lot of Dutch people, but also for colleague Omtzigt, very often appointed. For the record, I would like to repeat what I said earlier, namely: it is inappropriate. Inappropriate that this happened. Inappropriate that a conversation with a scout is about possible functions and what might happen to people from other parties. I also agree with Mrs Van der Plas. As a colleague, I also say that this suggestion has always been completely wrong. It has painful consequences for the relationship of trust, here in the Chamber, and for the prestige of politics. Mistakes have been made that shouldn't have been made. The scouts have taken their responsibilities and resigned. Mr. Chairman. These days of exploration will not be wasted in the end if we can also begin to restore broken and compromised confidence in this debate. By giving full disclosure. We have the truth now; at least that's what we think. But I ask the scouts, why did it take so long? The position of Mr Omtzigt, for example, has been discussed twice with the group chairman of the VVD. How then is it that the Chamber has been informed so incompletely and carelessly and too slowly in recent days? The slowness of the process has only increased mistrust. The new information we received this morning has also changed the nature of the debate. We just saw that again. Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the procedure of exploration and the improvements that are not only possible but also necessary. After the bonus affair, politics promised more transparency, thoroughness, solidity. This debate could be an example of this. We had to step outside the beaten paths to make it possible. It is important to define the scouting role clearly, including the possibility of accountability in the Lower House. It is also important for the House of Representatives to be able to use support from its own ranks in the phase of reconnaissance, so as to have such a so-called firewall between power and counterpower, as Mr Segers has already mentioned. This also brings me to the need to change our political culture. I hope that my colleagues in the Chamber have seen this in my written contribution or in the report from the former explorers is still looking for a stable, political and broad-based cabinet, with as progressive a perspective as possible to respond to the real challenges of today and the future. In order to regain confidence, a new cabinet will really have to embrace dualism, and much more than it has snuck in. In order to take action, a new cabinet will have to agree on key issues and not on side issues: economic recovery, tackling the climate crisis and the educational opportunity crisis. I would just like to mention a few main themes. I'm almost done, Madam President. Then I made my maiden speech. It is another paragraph, with the President and colleagues' permission. This can only be supported if people can rely on such processes. Until recently, Tamara van Ark and Wouter Koolmees were able to carry out such a process on behalf of the Chamber. In the light of the new facts, I propose that the Chamber appoint or investigate a new scout. As far as I am concerned, that must not only be someone of authority, but also someone at a great distance from politics. I shall table a motion to that effect. This is the time to set a new course for politics, in particular for what we can and must do for the country, out of this enormous crisis of confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u445	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Hoekstra and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u446	Congratulations on your maiden speech, by the way, even if we can't call it that. I heard Mrs Kaag say that the scouts have taken on their responsibilities, but I do have a question about that. It was the explorer of D66-house, also the minister of D66-house, responsible for our democracy, who was photographed with the conscious note with which she was on the way under the arm, with "Pieter Omtzigt, function elsewhere." How does Mrs Kaag look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u447	I hate it. I have already said that what has apparently been discussed with the foreman of the VVD should never have been discussed as far as I am concerned. In any case, I only had my first conversation about the content. You'll see that in the notes, if you might come to that. It is a terrible incident, which speaks for something much wider, namely that the process of reconnaissance must be fundamentally established: the mandate of the scouts, which it can and cannot be about and the proper reporting and, of course, accountability to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u448	I would understand this answer, if it weren't the scout of the D66 house who was on the road with it. We have indeed heard Mrs Kaag speak in the campaign about new leadership, but also about the formation that it should go along the lines of content. I wholeheartedly support that. But her scout gave a whole different view. Her scout showed that in the second conversation that would be held with Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag there would be talk about a position elsewhere for Pieter Omtzigt. Then how do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u449	I can't explain that. The discussion never took place, but if I had been asked that question, I would have reacted negatively to it, a because it is not possible; it is not appropriate. We are not talking about a representative of the people; since yesterday he is also my colleague. But the broader picture also shows that I would have started that conversation again on the basis of the content. But I think we should hear from the scouts how it is possible not only Mrs Ollongren, but also Mrs Jorritsma, who have been put forward, prepared, by the scouts' office. We haven't heard their answers to those questions. I'll wait for that, and I'll be able to respond to you again in the second term. But I don't think it's appropriate anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u450	Of course, it's always difficult for us. Mrs Kaag says: if it had come to my table, I would have said 'I do not think this is appropriate'. We cannot, of course, check that, unfortunately. But we do know that it was a scout of the D66 house, who was "captured" and let me put it this way with that note on it. I would also like to put another question to Mrs Kaag. I just heard you talking to Rutte about a pattern. That's what you called it. A pattern of untruths, I believe you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u451	A pattern of forgetfulness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u452	A pattern of forgetfulness, you said. You spoke of a pattern. I couldn't help noticing that. In your letter to the explorers, you also talk about a different political culture. You're calling this now, too. But apparently we are, at least the incumbent power, in a culture in which it is possible that so soon in an exploration it is, of course, ridiculously speaking specifically about a position elsewhere before, in this case, Pieter Ommzigt. What does that mean for you and your attitude in coalition negotiations, in formation, towards the VVD? Do you find it obvious, given the pattern you appoint and the new leadership you aspire to, or do you think it is an option, to pull up in the formation with that pattern of forgetfulness of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u453	That's two questions. Let me just say one thing. You paint an easy picture of one of the scouts. I think we should return to the questions they have been asked and their answers to them, as to how it may be that such a note has been drawn up. We have now seen notes, or background notes, written by hand, in which this occurs. This is a process in which they are responsible. They do this on behalf of the Chamber. I like to hear from the scouts how, what, where and when. But this is not a D66 signature; you have to separate that very clearly. It has been put forward, but I think we hear from Mrs Ollongren how she left that day from the workplace that had served them. Political culture is a very important one. That's what we all stand for. I have also made this clear in my beginnings and in my questions to Mr Rutte, and I still do not hear the answers. So through you I repeatedly ask Mr Rutte my questions about reflection, not only about the lessons, but also about what this means for the foundation or the crumbling trust and how we deal with these important issues. If you ask me, are you going to form, yes or no?', I say: when this debate is over, whenever it is, I would like to go with the support of the Chamber to look for another scout, authority and away from politics. That has nothing to do with "of D66-house"; it must be independent. Then the whole process of exploring starts again, and then I'll see what the position of D66 is. It is completely independent, also towards the promise we made to our constituents about that political culture. This includes transparency, confidence and a different way of politics. So if that's it, then it's a whole new start for me, in every way. I said this is where we part ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u454	Well, let's get to that last point. You said that this is where we part ways. You have also indicated that you have asked Mark Rutte several times and you say that I have not had any answers to that question. The next question seems to me to be justified. This is also important for clarity to know. Does that mean that D66 says: with this VVD, let me put it this way, under the guidance of Mark Rutte, who is responsible for a pattern of untruths, which in any case has not answered your question, is it not an option for D66 to shape that so ambitious new leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u455	We must all seek leadership, and certainly the renewal in it. I think I'll wait and see what the second term is going to offer and what the answers will be. Many people have asked fundamental questions. I zoomed in on it myself. It is very important to know how we are going to enter the Easter period and I will also use it as a period of reflection and reflection. That will benefit all of us, I think, to possibly start the way forward in a new way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u456	Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Kaag on what you may classify as a maiden speech. Of course, I very much agree with her that the chaos is about complete. But I find one thing complicated. If you listen to her, it could have been the input of Mr Azarkan, Mrs Marijnissen or someone else who has done so. But D66 has been one of the two architects of this exploration. It has also been D66 who has chosen to appoint a second scout. It has also been D66 who has chosen to appoint people who are at the top of politics and are part of it. Why did she choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u457	That answer is simple. We could of course have made a nice battle in the elections next to the VVD. In the campaign I was often told that D66 is governed by halving. I believe that Mr Wilders brought this up in the NOS debate. I'm sure you remember that, too. Luckily, that didn't turn out to be the case. We have gained the trust of many people on the basis of our values and ambitions for climate, education and so on. Then it fits with the responsibility you have as a second party in the country to see at this stage how in crisis time you can take responsibility for the country's recovery together. This Chamber has agreed to the names of both scouts. They do so on behalf of us. I feel responsible, like others, but to some extent even more responsible for this failed attempt in the exploration process. Let me be clear about that. That is why I think it is a good step to say: let us do this differently. We have learned a lot about how the exploration phase can be greatly improved. That's not opposition, that's taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u458	Still, with all due appreciation, it's only half an answer to my question. D66 has opted for a novel, namely a second explorer. I take it that idea did not come from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u459	It's not a novum. It's happened before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u460	Mr Hoekstra has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u461	There was one scout and it had to be two. That may be possible, but in itself it might as well not have been chosen. It has also been chosen to then choose people with a clear political role and possibly with future ambitions in this role. That's two. Three. To paraphrase former explorer Camp: a lot of subjects that have come along, have no place at all in an exploration. They may belong deep in the formation, but not in the exploration. You can't run away from the fact that D66 was one of the two architects of that whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u462	You know, you didn't say anything to the scouts. I do! I've gone into substance. That's one. There is indeed apparently an unwritten law that the exploration phase for some... You were at the talks we all had with the President of the Chamber in the first round. In doing so, we looked at how and whether it concerns the parties that can move together. Other parties, including myself, have said: let us examine the cooperation options from the point of view of content. Since there is nothing described about the exploration phase, we can reflect how it went in 2012 and 2017, but there is no manual for the exploration. That is why I think it is so important that we all now look at what can be done, what cannot be done, the mandate and how it is described. There is an evaluation of previous reconnaissance phases. So there are lessons to be learned. This is the choice we made, and it's not a novel. I don't remember the year, but a second scout was added in an earlier phase. It's a matter and it was a choice of acceptance from the largest party. But I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u463	Mrs Kaag is quite free to comment on what I said in those talks, but I think we are talking about the combination of two scouts. Those are people who are close to politics and then do a very substantive exploration. I mentioned Camp, but several former scouts said: that doesn't give a pass. Then it is a relatively late conversion, because within an hour after these scouts had resigned, we have repeated the same formula. In the meantime, a lot of parties have said "that's unfortunate," but at that time two new scouts were appointed. So how does Mrs Kaag look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u464	As I have already said, I come with a proposal that we do not repeat. That is also a lesson from this period for us, but would you say that we did not agree as a whole as a Chamber with the former scouts and the scouts who are still here, Mrs Van Ark and Wouter Koolmees? Based on insight, expertise, the trust that everyone has in them, that was also a fact back then. Now, with today's insight into the failed phase that we are all studying now, I also say from responsibility: so no longer. And then we'll go on. That's part of it. I will not cover it with the cloak of love. I'll come with a way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u465	In my opinion, the road that many have already taken, and that is where the real problem lies. It is two parties that have taken the initiative.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But the choice of content, for two scouts close to politics, you made at the very beginning, and you then repeated it, after the fall of the first two scouts. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u466	I disagree with that. My position was clear that I myself went into my exploration process and conversation from the point of view of content. You can see that from my letter and you can see that from the report. Some parties have done the same. Others didn't. Everyone is free in that. The scouts and their support have written down what they have said or what they have chosen not to say at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u467	Compliments of the maiden speech. It is indeed unusual for us to interrupt, but you have indicated that we can. The next time that won't happen. But this is, I think, an important issue where it is crucial that we can also ask Mrs Kaag. They're fine words that are spoken, but they're a little distracted. They are distracting from the crucial, and that is not at all about the process of formation. That's not so crucial at all. What this is about is that a future Prime Minister, who is now outgoing, has actually written down that he wants to get rid of a critical MP. In a way, this is about the relationship between the controlling power and the executive power. What I find special is that Mrs Kaag also spoke fine words about leadership before the elections. She said: "If it had been up to me, Mr Rutte would have finished after two periods. In fact, I think that's something." But now I hear Mrs Kaag say: "I'm going to reflect on that one more weekend and then I'm just gonna sit with Mr Rutte again to decide how to make him prime minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u468	I have said that I am going to reflect and that I am going to follow Mr Rutte's second-term replies. You did not hear me say that I would then make Mr Rutte Prime Minister again. You're getting ahead of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u469	Sure, sure. But we usually have the second term, of course, when there's a prime minister here in box K. Mr Rutte has already spoken in detail. He just answered two and a half hours ago. He'll be there in second term, I think, one minute 20. Then, if you have followed the President, you may be able to ask half a question. You have all the answers and I am simply asking you: are you going to do business with Mr Rutte and are you going to make him Prime Minister of this country again for four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u470	You already have my answer, Mr. Azarkan. I have said that I am still waiting for Mr Rutte's reflection on the deepening of the answers. I have, I think, asked clear fundamental questions in my questions to him. We're still waiting for that. Because it's about such crucial matters, I think it's important that we keep the peace and focus in it. And I think it's important to hear that answer. I'll wait for that moment. Furthermore, so much has happened in a very short time, unprecedented, I also understand new for all of us, whether you are a long-time MP or just joined 24 hours ago. I had also thought of something else on the first day of Chambers, but it is important that we stay calm, because ultimately it is about trust, recovery and whether it is still possible to get that recovery at all, in the interests of the country and to make the votes come true and to be honest about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u471	Mr President, through you I say to Mrs Kaag: you are at an important crossroads. You have the opportunity to break up Rutte after ten years with the culture that Mr Omtzigt described as "a banana monarchy where Rutte is in charge." Those were his words. He has indicated that he feels pained because Mr Rutte repeatedly opposed him, with the painting away of information, not giving an answer in the right way, but avoiding the answers. I and Mrs Leijten have experienced how painful that can be. You are failing them if you say very easily: I am going to think about it again. You have the opportunity to break with it today and form a left-wing, progressive cabinet with the support of the CDA. I'd call you to do that. Think about it again, but also think about what your words are worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u472	I have heard Mr Azarkan's appeal and opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u473	First of all: congratulations on the debut in the House of Representatives, the maiden speech. My questions are in the same area as those of Mr Azarkan. We all may not have listened to everyone in this Chamber, but the Animal Party has listened with great hope to Mrs Kaag's campaign. Again, in this contribution to the Chamber, she speaks fine words about dualism. "This is where we part ways." But that leadership was a bit difficult to get off the ground. I wonder how Mr Rutte, partly on behalf of Mrs Kaag, said 'we did not talk about it', that he said in one breath 'yes, no one is going to explain that, of course' and that it then remained so quiet from D66 side, the side of Mrs Kaag. I would think that if you think that of that strong position of the Chamber, counterpower, a new leadership, you would immediately say: "Sandal, "position Overzigt, function elsewhere." Of course, this must be explained. Our paths are already separating. There will be a debate." Why is it so quiet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u474	I don't have the smartest answer to that. I didn't want to add anything to the noise. We were in favour of a debate anyway. If I could have cut the television fragment... It was about the fact that I had not had any conversation about Mr Omtzig, or any politician. The second question is not anticipated. I should have put that right publicly with the wisdom of today, but I was waiting for the scout's report. I was waiting for an orderly trial. I didn't think it was really appropriate at that time to throw some more oil on a burning fire. But you're right about that. As I said yesterday, this will not happen to me a second time either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u475	Well, I hope so, but I would like to point out that this seems to be happening for the second time now. We have all seen that in the conversation with Mr Rutte it was said: Pieter Ommzigt, we have to do something with that. And then Mr Rutte says here today: I don't remember saying that I said that. Everyone here in the Chamber says: well, that you still dare to lie about that! And then the forewoman of D66, with new leadership, says with "here separate our ways, we stand for dualism, transparency, a strong Chamber": I still want to hear what he has to say in the second term. Then you'll make the same mistake. I want to protect you from that, because I hope that D66 really stands for the transparency, democracy and opposition that the Chamber, the highest body in our parliamentary democracy, must be. We don't play games with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u476	I am always grateful for all the good advice, but do not worry about me, Mrs Ouwehand. I deal with my own words, my own timing and my own consideration. I think that the issues that are going on here are so big and so fundamental that it also fits in that we, once again, give the space to Mark Rutte to perhaps not only come back to some words, to give a better, different explanation and also to demonstrate whether and how the harmed trust can be restored. That's important anyway. I'm probably too old to let the second and the moment rush me. I'm going over my own time, and that's my way of working. I hope you can respect or accept that, but that's how I do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u477	I shall conclude by saying that I am speaking on behalf of many people, and I think that the expectations of D66 are high and indeed the issue is far too serious to overdo it and therefore far too serious to continue to fall into the twisting, manipulating and violating the rule of law of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u478	I take it Mrs Ouwehand did not look after me with the term'suffering'. I leave that in general, because then I do not have to respond to it. I think you can tell by my vote how seriously I take this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u479	I have Mrs Ploumen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van der Plas. Is that right? Yes. Then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u480	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations, too, to Mrs Kaag for her maiden speech. While I am working on what we have just heard in Mr Rutte's contribution, I am very disappointed about Mrs Kaag's views on what needs to be done now. By Mr Rutte and the scouts this phase has degenerate into total chaos, while the assignment given by the Chamber was very clear. Mrs Kaag proposes to appoint an independent new scout, someone, in my words, who is far away from the centre of power. I would also like to put another proposal to her. During the discussion with the chairmen of the political groups, it was also about the importance that I mentioned, among other things, of a formation including exploration along substantive lines: what are the concerns of people in the country, in what way do parties want to solve them and where do the challenges lie for the future? This exploration is still degenerate into dolls and half-lies and whole untruths. Could Mrs Kaag support a proposal from me to do the formation including the exploration along substantive lines, because that is what people are asking us to do: solve the concerns and problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u481	It's not just that I support it. I embrace it. It also reflects the content we gave in our first conversation with the explorers. You can also remember the meeting led by the chairman, the first time we met. I think that's incredibly important. That is one way of doing politics and working on solutions in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u482	I would also like to congratulate Mrs Kaag on her maiden speech. I would also like to make a specific comment on how to proceed. It actually indicates: stop also the newly appointed scouts and take a new step towards an independent scout. If you choose that route, you could think about whether that could just be an informant. Because we did a scout because we weren't assembled as a new Chamber yet. The Rules of Procedure actually assume that we will elect an informant at the plenary session in which we will discuss the election results and see how to proceed. Then my question is whether Mrs Kaag will then come up with a very concrete proposal, including a name, and something that can be widely worn in the Chamber, so that there will not be a gap, but there will be an immediate follow-up to the information procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u483	If that is a suggestion supported in the Chamber, I think that is the desirable immediate step. Well, right away? Maybe after Easter, after the reflection period that's needed. I may have a few names in mind, but I think other people might have names, too. In the end, it is someone of authority and stature and with a great distance from politics and someone who is widely worn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u484	Normally that is indeed the outcome of the exploration procedure, that we have a broad-based proposal. This shows that this is now difficult, but let us further see how a constructive follow-up can be given to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u485	Thank you. Then Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u486	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually only have one question for Mrs Kaag. You see a pattern of forgetfulness with Mr Rutte. My question is: do you still believe Mr Rutte on his word?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u487	Well, that's a very difficult question. I put a question of conscience to Mr Rutte. So if you'll allow me, I'd like to hear from him again what answers he's going to give to the whole fundamental question I've asked. I think the question of conscience is here in the Chamber; that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u488	I am sure you have reasonable doubts about 'believe in his word'. Can you still rely on it when things are said again in a second term? I think that is quite a fundamental question, especially in your position, including in your position as leader of a winning party, with a great responsibility towards our citizens. So, yes, I would like to ask: do you still think about that question and give us a clear answer to that question? That "pattern of forgetfulness" has not only shown you, but we all note that. So I personally find it difficult to say whether I still believe him, but I would like that answer from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u489	Yes, as I said, I expect Mr Rutte to be able to give a more fundamental direction in the second term. According to Mr Azarkan, Mr Rutte's second term is one or one and a half minutes, but I think it will be a little longer. I think a little more direction can be given, including the way in which confidence is compromised. That's more than a quick formation, or a discussion. If you ask me if I think someone has spoken the truth, yes or no, then I say: that is another question. I cannot look into the souls of other people; I can only judge what I see and what I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u490	That has been enough so far. I realize I didn't congratulate you at first, but I always do: better late than never. So you're right. Congratulations on your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u491	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u492	Thank you, Mrs Kaag. And congratulations on your first contribution. I now give the floor to Mr Hoekstra on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u493	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is an exceptional privilege to stand here. You have already recalled that this is my maiden speech, and you yourself have indicated that given the nature and importance of the debate, Members can quietly interrupt as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands voted on 17 March. It is my belief that most people then expect us to take good care of it in The Hague. Mr. Chairman. We've been two weeks, and we're fucked! Really, we're totally, totally fucked up, but we're totally fucked up. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the notes. It is of course very sloppy that they were visible. But much worse is that they have been put on paper at all, and that it was apparently seen as part of the task; I said that just in the event of an interruption. That was obviously part of the job concept. And I have just indicated what Camp and others have said about what scouts should do: they should explore. They look at: who could possibly be with whom? They shouldn't be looking at this. Mr. Chairman. Those notes are also about our own Pieter Ommzigt. And rightly so, many have already recalled that he has made a phenomenal contribution, a phenomenal contribution to our democracy. It is really bizarre that he was brought up in that way and that these kinds of sentences appear in the notes. And of course there's a lot more on that list where you're wondering: what did the scouts actually think they were doing? Mr. Chairman. The scouts have also been able to see what has come out today, in their letter, that none of the topics in those notes did not mention Pieter Omtzigt, not the left-wing cooperation, not my role in that conversation. I am going to ask them to confirm this in plenary. That's the easy question. Mr. Chairman. My second question is much more fundamental. Why, why is this on paper? Why is it on paper and on what basis did this text come into being? What is the meaning of the task? On each of these questions, I expect in this debate today, which is dictated by fog in particular, that these two explorers will give an answer. In addition, I think they should apologize: apologize to Pieter Ommzigt, apologize to the Chamber and apologize to the CDA. Mr. Chairman. My third question. How come no one remembers what was discussed there? There have been five people in the room, I estimate: two civil servants and three politicians. We have lived together for a week in the fiction that there would not have been any discussion on the subjects that the debate has been about for about eight or nine hours today. How is that possible? I understand you can overlook trivialities. I get that you can forget things. But how is it that people who have their own memories that are quipped for the work we do here, that all three of them have been forgotten? Mr. Chairman. Then about the exploration in a general sense. A majority of this house previously felt that the independent role of the King was no longer desirable, because of course the parliament could do much better itself. I'm sure the confidentiality would work out. If you look at the havoc that we are discussing today, then of course the question of conscience is: has it actually gotten better? For now we have two scouts instead of one scout and for me it is completely unclear what purpose this serves. Besides, you can't say they're remote. I have said this several times over the last few days. Until last week it was a sitting senator and sitting cabinet members with potentially all kinds of ambitions. The problem is that it all bears witness to political hubris. My question is: why not one scout with more distance from politics or even a new approach? It's the only way to create a clean slate and put an end to the chaos we've been in for two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u494	My question to Mr Hoekstra is why he did not support me the day after the elections, when I said exactly this and all the group chairmen agreed with the appointment of these two scouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u495	No, it wasn't like that. Besides... I can still hear Mr Baudet tampering a little bit. I'd like to listen to him, but I will, with your permission, Mr. Chairman, when he says things in the microphone. I found, and I still think, that the initiative to explore is not part of the CDA. That is also the reason why I spent an hour trying to make this clear to both scouts. I also think it is up to the largest party, the VVD, to take the initiative in itself. Apparently, the largest party has been convinced by the second largest party that it would be wise to choose two scouts. I say to Mr Baudet that it is up to them. I want to be able to find out what else I can about that, I am not going to sanction it and I am not going to accord it, but I do have opinions on that. I also expressed those views last week. That is, of course, exactly my objection. It happened once and then, within an hour after these scouts had resigned, maybe it was two hours, but it didn't last half a day we had two new scouts present, again forming part of active politics. Maybe I'll give them that much more with all kinds of political ambitions. In any case, they were not independent, at least they were very close to matter. It is obvious that Mr Baudet will agree with me that there is a gap between some former scout camp, but also other former scouts have said what a scout is for and what it is for on earth, and what might perhaps be discussed in the tail of a formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u496	So Mr Hoekstra was against the appointment of the two new scouts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u497	No, I don't think I have a role. I think it's up to the biggest party. Furthermore, I find it unwise to choose people... at all I find that exploration unwise. I am not going to tell Mr Baudet anything new about that. The CDA has always said: where is this going to end, is this wise? By the way, we were not the only party in that, but we have to accept the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u498	It has never been said that this majority was not reached, for example because Mr Hoekstra did not say anything about it when this happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u499	No, I was talking about a different majority. It was a majority of this Chamber that, years ago, I wasn't sitting in this house at the time, and I said, "We have a brilliant idea. The role played by the figure of the King, when the queen "plays in the formation, we can do much better ourselves." Maybe I'm skipping a party, but my guess is that the CDA, the Christian Union, the SGP and the VVD said about it then: unwise, stick to the old. The others were very excited about going into the new era and doing so. This is one of the fruits that we are reaping from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u500	No, but I remember as the day of yesterday that I said the day after the election at the Smoking Salon: Guys, it's unwise to have a VVD and CDA-intimus...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u501	D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u502	... to appoint D66-intimus for scouting. I said then: we need to appoint someone who is a little more remote from politics; then you get a much better kind of formation. I remember very well that, literally, none of the group chairmen supported me in that. Mrs. Arib was there, too. I can see from your head that you remember it, too. I mean, moving insight I applaud, but it's getting pretty late at the party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u503	No, it's two different things. It's a question of who's talking about it. I believe that this is the prerogative of the largest party. Apparently, he's been seduced to the figure of the second scout. I'd like to leave that to them. It can also be read back in my speech that my whole line-up has been that I think it is unwise and that I do not feel like joining a liberal engine block. But if that is the way the biggest party wants to go, then that is the way to go. That's how it happened. Mr Baudet has also been able to read in the press over the last few days that I have said that, if I may conclude and if you would like to continue that figure of the scout, you should choose one person of great stature, far from politics. I'll send the ANP in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u504	Mr Hoekstra, I should like to put to you the question that Mrs Van der Plas, a colleague of BBB, has just asked to Mrs Kaag, in the rebound. That question was about her faith in Mr Rutte's words. Do you still have faith in Mr. Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u505	I think we've all seen that part about this morning is very uncomfortable. It is not for nothing that I have said to the same interrupting microphone as Mr Eerdmans's: there are questions about the route this Wednesday morning, on that Wednesday morning, but above all about how to proceed now. I have invited Mr Rutte to reflect on this in the second term. I believe that Mrs Kaag did the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u506	But how do you qualify the performance so far when it comes to your own colleague, Mr Omtzigt? I'm really curious about that. They play with memories, such as "I knew it" or "I heard it or didn't hear it through earlier." Isn't it just that we're getting screwed up with Pieter Ommzigt today? Is that how you feel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u507	I have just said in other words that I find it really scandalous what happened, but I think Mr Eerdmans has heard the emotion in my voice. I just said that. It's not gonna take me any trouble to get over it again. None! None! At the same time, I think we should have this debate together. We need to finish it from a to z and then draw conclusions. I would therefore like to share with Mr Eerdmans how I have heard each part of the debate, including the scouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u508	Mrs Ploumen and then Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u509	I also congratulate Mr Hoekstra on his maiden speech. Mr Hoekstra strongly commented on the work done by the scouts. He demands an apology from them. I can imagine that very well. My question is whether he is also asking for an apology from Mr Rutte, who, as we have all heard, is the one who spoke about Omtzigt in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u510	What I have just said is that I find it very uncomfortable what Mr Rutte said about that call. What I invited him to do is to go into more detail in a moment about what he said and what he did not say and about the flow of information that came to him. I can't judge why I want to hear the scouts what came and didn't come in that discussion about Mr Omtzigt. It began with the fact that all three of them said: we do not remember talking about it. We have got less than a piece of clarification about that just now, so we're about to try that again with the scouts. I would like to know what was discussed there, and I would like to know in particular: why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u511	My question wasn't about that phone call this morning, that phone call. My question was about the fact that according to the reports, which we have all been able to read, Mr Rutte and the scouts have brought in that there was or had to be something with Mr Omtzigt. They are not my words...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u512	No, neither is mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u513	...or that he should be President of the House of Representatives. Mr Rutte has also made this point according to that report. How does Mr Hoekstra view this? Does that lead to his question to Mr Rutte to apologize too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u514	Then I am back to exactly what I said to Mrs Ploumen, whom I thank for the congratulations. That is: that depends on the answer of the scouts. If they were to say 'there was only Mr Rutte making the point about becoming a minister', I think that is something other than the piece that is, of course, extremely bad and that is about 'function elsewhere'. That is, of course, the fundamental difference. What Mr Rutte said is true. He asked me what was going on with Mr Omtzig that Friday after the elections. He then said that he remembered that I had said a few times in the campaign that Mr Omtzigt could certainly become a minister, or words similar to that. I have always added: that is up to Mr Omtzigt, in dialogue with me. I have, of course, received all kinds of questions, but I have always said that is up to Mr Omtzigt. I stopped that conversation with Mr Rutte at all, because I know exactly how that kind of conversation goes. Next thing you know, you're gonna get half a formation messed up. So that's what I've been holding back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u515	With Mr Hoekstra, then, I await the answer of the scouts. I would remind Mr Hoekstra that the scouts have written that none of the group chairmen is Mr Omtzig...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u516	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u517	... has brought up the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u518	No, exactly. I very much agree with Mrs Ploumen. The reason for me to apologize, of course, lies in the fact that there is something on paper. That is, of course, about that crucial passage: 'function elsewhere'. That's the crucial part, because that sounds like getting promoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u519	Mr. Hoekstra, congratulations on your maiden speech. You have actually already answered Mrs Ploumen, but still for a moment, because something intrigues me. You say: I do not want to join a liberal engine in advance. But I've heard Mr. Rutte several times about that call between you and him, talking about a possible position for Pieter Ommzigt as minister in a new cabinet to be formed. How did that conversation come about? With what intent? Has there been talk of other people there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u520	No. That was even in the context of another conversation. Then I was asked first of all what I think is an understandable question about the Pieter Omtzigt. I get that question more often from members of the cabinet. Then came Mr Rutte's remark that he had heard me say in the campaign 'I think in an interview with RTL... that Mr Omtzigt could certainly become Minister in my opinion. That was also the headline above the article. Moreover, I have repeatedly repeated that it is not primarily up to me, but to Mr Omtzigt to determine where his future lies. Then I kept saying in that process, just in public, that there would be all kinds of options to discuss with me. Once again, that is a dialogue between Mr Omtzigt and myself. That is where I have referred to the group presidency and the presidency of the Council and I have also been involved in a possible formation process. I have mentioned all this, but I have always said that it is not up to the outside world, it is not up to a television programme. Mr Rutte said to me: as far as we are concerned, it is absolutely fine, or words of the same kind, if Mr Omtzigt were to become a minister in the future. At that time I was thinking: that's all right, but I'll take that for notice, because if I'm excited about that, I'll leave exactly that position that I've been practicing with the scouts, which is that I don't think I'm the mover. I find it strange that we are looking at two scouts, at a liberal engine block. I've read the reports. The CDA is about the least enthusiastic party about where we stand. Some of them got married out of there in half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u521	Clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u522	Mr. Chairman. I wasn't quite finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u523	Compliments so far for the contribution. I would like to say that I know Mr Hoekstra as an excellent minister, but he is also doing a great job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u524	Mr Azarkan has already said something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u525	I also like to think of him as a minister. I don't have a motive for that. The essence of my question is: when Mr Hoekstra spoke to Mr Rutte, about the position of Mr Omtzigt's office elsewhere...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u526	Now I'm gonna say right away that I didn't discuss that. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u527	No, no, you didn't discuss it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u528	Don't mix it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u529	I take that back. When Mr Rutte was informed of a possible ministerial position by Mr Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u530	Just a little comment on the scout's letter. It's being distributed now. That's what I wanted to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u531	Does it say who called at 7:30?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u532	The focus on the debate will decrease now, Mr President, while I am trying so hard to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u533	Mrs Marijnissen says there's nothing in it, and I believe it is. I'll read the letter later. My question to Mr Hoekstra is whether he can indicate what Mr Rutte's motive was to inform about a possible ministership of Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u534	Again, that was in the context of a broader conversation. That was a relatively short passage. It's not like it's been discussed. The first question is: how is Mr Omtzigt? I think that's a valid question. I've had that question from three quarters of the cabinet, I think. Then I will answer that and a follow-up comment will be made which will go back to what I said earlier in the campaign. Again, I believe this was RTL Z. That is what Mr Rutte says, and I assume immediately that he meant it, 'knows that the VVD can live well with it, that there is no objection to it', or words similar to that. I took that further for notification, because I know exactly how that kind of conversation goes. If you're not careful, you'll talk about a few substantive issues and before you know it, you'll be hooked up to an engine block you don't belong in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u535	Now Mr Hoekstra can help us as a Chamber. He had that very brief conversation, in which Mr Rutte indicated that he would have no objection at all if Mr Omtzigt was promoted to minister. Let's see it as a promotion. Some people say that parliamentary membership, the people's representatives, is the highest good. Let us say that Mr Rutte had no objection to that. Then Mr Hoekstra reads these notes and hears them today. Can he take us now? They are actually two tastes: either Mr Rutte has really tried to make Mr Omtzigt's position, and actually the Chamber's, less critical, or he simply thinks that Mr Omtzigt would be an excellent minister. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u536	I can't look into other people's souls. I have no reason to doubt what Mr Rutte said to me at the time. I've mainly interpreted it as a preconception, a preconception conversation. There are also all kinds of other people, from all kinds of parties, also people who have long left politics, who suddenly felt challenged to get in touch with me, to catch up. I have often interpreted that as the beginning of me possibly courting. Mr Azarkan will understand that I am somewhat on my guard there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u537	Mrs. Ouwehand? No, Mr. Azarkan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u538	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we saw a somewhat broken Omtzigt, who has actually been wondering for a week: why is it that the whole country is talking about me, how is it that I am the subject of conversation, how is it that my position should be elsewhere? Has there been a time when Mr Hoekstra thought 'I'm going to tell Mr Rutte one-on-one whether he might have been, because he had some interest in saying that at least, either from some sort of inventory or from some sort of risk inventory'? Has there been such a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u539	No. First of all about Mr Omtzigt, because it is one of the extremely painful things I want to highlight here. I told you, Omtzigt is a 24-karat MP. He himself has also indicated that he has taken a lot of trouble and that he would like some rest. In recent weeks and again in this debate, it is only about him. That makes it even more difficult for him, even personally, to distance himself from matter. And no, until this afternoon I was just looking at the news sites, I didn't know what was in that note. I've had no contact with the scouts other than that they called me after leaking that information. I've had no contact with them other than at the time and in our conversation. So I didn't know what was in the records of the conversations with anyone. Yes, indeed, I have seen Mr Rutte's. And I have also seen that Mr Azarkan has thought that he should offer me another compliment, or perhaps a demotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u540	Welcome to Mr. Hoekstra in the Chamber, the highest body. Congratulations on your maiden speech. My question is this. I do not really hear Mr Hoekstra reflect on the performance of Mr Rutte that we have seen here, in the best tradition of, indeed, his group with Pieter Omtzigt as fearless MP doing his job very well. Others also do it, but certainly Pieter Omtzigt has regularly revealed that what Mr Rutte said, on second thought, was not the whole truth, or the whole truth, or simply a lie. I actually wonder what Mr Hoekstra's assessment of Rutte's story is, so much like "I didn't really know it anymore," and why he goes along with that story, of: well, maybe we all forgot about it; why did those people forget about it? I don't think that's an overly sharp approach to getting the truth out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u541	I want to start with all the love from the beginning and articulate again what I think has gone wrong. I think I have just said that democracy and all of us, including Mrs Ouwehand and myself, are completely ridiculous. I have said that this wagon has gone completely, but totally off track, that what has happened here is extremely serious, that I think it is up to the scouts to clarify it and that I think it is up to the scouts to correct it and to apologize. I have also indicated that, like all of us, I, of course, feel the same discomfort about the fact that there appears to be information in those documents. Moreover, it seems that one of us is getting information along a channel other than the channel that is open to all of us. We all find that uncomfortable; that's why I'm so worried about the future. I don't think there was a word of Spanish in what I've debuted here in the last half hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u542	I have heard very well what Mr Hoekstra has said and I have a question about what I am missing. Actually, I don't think we're very embarrassed. I welcome the fact that at last the way things are going here has been exposed and, yes, that goes in an ugly way with power politics and power formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u543	Yes, but, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u544	Of course, if you want to call it that, we've been a monkey for a long time, which is when pieces come in with only black stripes. And that's the point. We need to find out what the truth is here. And I am simply addressing Mr Hoekstra to that. That's what we're looking for. The fact that the scouts made a mistake by running with papers on which we could see "position Ommzigt, function elsewhere" may be a sloppy thing, but that's really not the big problem. So does Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u545	I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u546	But we have to keep our eyes on the ball...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u547	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u548	...and get the truth out of the table. How does Mr. Hoekstra judge the story "I really couldn't remember saying that" of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u549	Just pulling three things apart. I do think that the whole parliamentary democracy is ridiculous. And I understand that Mrs Ouwehand may be the only one here who is a member of a party where that is taken as a compliment rather than an insult, but still. You bet most of the people who are watching this really think, "What did you guys do? We voted two weeks ago, what the hell are you guys doing? So I'm gonna hold onto that; I think that's true. The second is that the whole process has obviously gone completely wrong. And the third point: how can it be that three adult people, who are supposed to be able to fulfil the complicated jobs they fulfil, have forgotten all three exactly this crucial passage? I have asked Mr Rutte this question, and I am now putting it to the scouts through the chairman. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u550	But that means that Mr Hoekstra goes along with the idea that you could say at all: yes, we were talking about Pieter Ommzigt, but we can't remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u551	No, that's not true at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u552	This is a matter... I do not know what Mr Hoekstra wanted to say here, but I would warn him to do so; let me put it this way. And the reason why the Animal Party says "be a monkey, that's not so bad" is because this country has to deal with a very serious crisis of confidence in politics, and the reason for this is that the Chamber, as the highest body in our parliamentary democracy, is not respected by the incumbent power. Taking a walk with the Chamber, lying to it, turning around it, sending documents that have been blacked out, not providing the information required by the Constitution... And in this state, we have now been given a glimpse into how that works, and an opportunity to restore those proportions. And that's why we were very embarrassed before this, but now we have to show what we're worth. That's my point. And I see that Mr Hoekstra is still not doing enough. So I stick to my question: does he reject Mr Rutte's story, or does he go with that frame "you may have forgotten it, and then we have to apologize and then there's nothing going on"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u553	No, and I really object to this. For I have devoted whole passages to finding that I do not only find myself, but also Mr Kamp and other former scouts that the exploration should not be about this kind of thing. Of course, that's why the whole note is so bizarre. That's exactly what I said last week. Because that whole note from a to z is about things that the explorers aren't about; that's not what they're about. And as for Pieter Ommzigt, that's all Pieter Ommzigt is about, in dialogue with me. But also those other things that are on there. An exploration is to explore who might want to start a formation process with who.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u554	Yes. That's also in the... Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u555	I think it is quite right that Mr Hoekstra should apologize to the informers, certainly to his party and to Pieter Omtzigt. Does he agree with me that it would be appropriate, even in the context of restoring confidence, if Mr Rutte also apologized to the CDA in the second term and certainly to Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u556	I have just answered that, in one of the previous interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u557	Then it must have been up to me, but I have that answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u558	I have said that I would like to wait for an answer from the scouts first, because I think it would be a different matter if it were really only said 'as far as I am concerned, Mr Omtzigt can become Minister'. Would that be the only thing, then I find that something other than that bizarre passage that is about a "position elsewhere." Of course, there's not a gradual difference there. And anyway, I say to Mr Klaver, and he will agree with me: there is still a great deal unexplained about what has been and has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u559	I understand that; there is still a lot unexplained. But I asked the question because that also applies to the scouts; there is still a lot to be clarified, and an excuse is already being asked - which I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u560	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u561	But I can also imagine that, when we talk about restoring trust, from there, to the VVD and to Mark Rutte... Because it took a week for this name to come up, and in that week, the damage has only gotten bigger. And that's not to judge anyone. That can just help restore confidence. That's exactly what you're asking the scouts, as I'm listening to you. But you say: not all questions have been answered yet. The same goes for the scouts. Either you wait until the scouts have given all the answers and then ask for excuses, or I think it is for the three main players in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u562	With all due respect for Mr Klaver's clarification, I would also like to say straight away in his direction: I am of course not in a very economical position. I am not on the economical side there: 'Don't let that happen with Rutte'. No. I would just like to answer some of those specific questions. It was the scouts who wrote the passage "function elsewhere" directly or under whose responsibility that happened. This has been done under their responsibility. Of course, that's exactly where the hinge point is. It's got the venom in it. So I want to wait and see, but it could be that Mr Klaver and I, I think I know in which direction his thoughts are going to be agreed on in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u563	It also strikes me that when Mr Hoekstra says that he is in favour of Mr Omtzigt, his criticism of Mr Rutte in his interruption just as Mr Rutte stood where you are now standing was stronger than in his term. It is a bit of a technical story that you are keeping, while, if you stand up for Mr Omtzigt, you have to be honest about the fact that Mr Rutte simply lied about not talking about Mr Omtzigt and that he did want him out of the Chamber. Whether it's as a minister or what else, it's not about one of your members being more difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u564	No, I very much agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u565	I'm telling you, Mr. Omtzigt might be more difficult in the Chamber than in the Cabinet. So why isn't that passion here before Mr. Omtzigt? And why not tell Mr. Rutte that you said that? Okay, then maybe it was "Minister." I think it was the other thing, too. Anyway, even if I go with you that it's "Minister," why don't you say, "Excuse me, you can't mean that, I won't go on with you if you're going to tell about my members, including Mr Omtzig, what they should do? If you've done that, apart from your lie, excuses." Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u566	I'm gonna go over it again. There is no question of it, but there is really no question of any restraint on my part. I just did that on that interrupting microphone, but that's what I'm doing here. Because I have virtually every day contact with Omtzigt. I also know what this does to him. There is therefore no question of any restraint. I believe that Mr Klaver is also asking a very fair question. I have just repeated to that interrupting microphone, but also here: how can it be, how can it be that the memory of three adult politicians Mr Rutte is one of them apparently leaves them so seriously in the lurch? The only distinction I do make is what is a fundamental and not a gradual distinction to me is whether you have pronounced "Minister" or whether you have pronounced "function elsewhere." Of course, that's not a small difference. That is why I should like to clarify this. That is why I want to know what was discussed with the scouts about Pieter Ommzigt in that specific conversation with Mr Rutte, perhaps in background conversations, perhaps in one of the other conversations. It might not be on paper then. That's what I want to know. That's all I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u567	A very fair question, but also: Minister is "a function elsewhere." If you are a member of the House of Representatives and are good for five seats and it does great work, it is not necessarily a promotion to stop in the Cabinet, but it is also seen as hiding in the cabinet of a difficult Member of Parliament, which may sometimes endanger a narrow majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u568	Sure. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u569	Apart from that, Madam President, I would like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u570	Mr President, if I may respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u571	Mr Hoekstra may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u572	I fully agree with Mr Wilders on this point, which is why I said last week that I thought it was bizarre. That is why I have just been standing here at the interrupting microphone and I have asked Mr Rutte. That is why I want to know from the scouts what has been and has not been discussed and by whom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u573	I have two other questions. It is right that Mr Hoekstra is angry with those who speak ill of Mr Omtzigt. But then I'll have to take a look at your own party. There are two moments when the CDA has not left behind in terms of damaging Mr Omtzigt. The first concerns a whispering campaign, even called a "whispering hate campaign," of anonymous CDAs in De Telegraaf. In a column, I believe from Mr. De Winther, in De Telegraaf anonymous CDAs say that Mr. Omtzigt would have crying showers, that he would throw flying projectiles through the room and that he would have inappropriate conversations with officials and directors. According to that journalist, all this comes anonymously from your own party, from your own group. The second example is that the CDA, yourself and Mr De Jonge would also have contributed to Mr Omtzigt's "tempering" at the Council of Ministers of 12 July 2019. Maybe that's not the literal word that was used, but at least that's in the paper. Mr Rutte would have threatened to make the minutes public after the onechec of the surcharge affair. Perhaps you can respond to those two moments. One. The accusation that you spoke about the functioning of Mr Omtzigt himself in the Council of Ministers, together with Mr De Jonge, on 12 July 2019. I would like to know from you: is that true or is that not true? Secondly, what do you think of the hate campaign within the CDA, anonymously to De Telegraaf, about Mr Omtzigt? That's where it gets really damaged. You're not gonna be in the paper about a colleague saying he's crying and he's throwing things through the room. It's about your own party and part of yourself. Could you reflect on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u574	For the record, I don't recognize that second one. I have had a lot of contact with Mr Omtzigt in that whole supplement drama anyway. I have often admitted that he has seen what was going on much earlier and sharper than all of us, with the exception of Renske Leijten. I have had a lot of contact with him about this throughout this period, including how it should proceed. The first point made by Mr Wilders is, of course, very unfortunate and intricate. Of course, that's what's bothering me too. I understand that Mr Wilders is pointing this out. I didn't solve that from today to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u575	I understand that, but I hope you'll sort it out. I think that, if you lecture others about malice, you should also clean it up if it comes from your own group. Otherwise, it's crocodile tears. But that's obviously what you're gonna do. Still, the question is very sharp: did you talk to Mr De Jonge in the Council of Ministers on 12 July 2019 about the tempering of Mr Omtzigt, who was already asking very critical questions at that time in the context of the supplementing affair? Did you do that? You say you don't recognize it, but I want it to be sharper. Did you or didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u576	I can only speak here based on my memory. I don't recognize the word "temperate" in any way. Mr Wilders is asking about a situation that happened a year and a half ago about something that would have been discussed in the Council of Ministers. I can't answer that other than that I don't recognize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u577	This is important. I understand you may not have that ready right now. I said maybe "tempering" isn't the right word. But it's been in my favorite newspaper NRC in a column of a very favorite journalist of mine, whose name I won't mention. He wrote that down, and I'd like to know if it was. I believe that the Minutes have gone to the Committee on Supplements, but, of course, I cannot know. I'm not supposed to know exactly what came out of that either. That's why I'm asking you, perhaps you could check that out before your second term. And not the literal word "temperate," but whether or not you said anything about it when Rutte or others said, "Well, the one who is asking Omtzigt of those difficult questions, can't we do something about it?" Did you resist that at the time? Did you say stop, this is bullshit, don't do it? Or did you somehow go along with that? It is therefore 12 July 2019 and the second column by Mr De Winther in De Telegraaf. If you lecture others, you should do it to yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u578	With all appreciation, but of course it is a curious question. Then I should be here as CDA Minister on minutes of the Council of Ministers. Then Mr Wilders has to ask me as Minister of Finance or the outgoing Prime Minister. I can't comment on that. He'll understand that himself. I very much agree with him that what was in the newspaper last week about the CDA is very uncomfortable and intricate. It's okay to know that I do that every day. I am in constant contact with Mr Omtzigt, by telephone or via the app. We saw each other extensively last week. I can say that on Mr Wilders' first point. Mr President, I was not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u579	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u580	I think I have a little bit of time left. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u581	It's your maiden speech, so I'm putting my hand over my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u582	You're gonna sit down for it. I'll come to a conclusion. I'd said a lot of things about the scouts. I want to highlight another point, the second big thing that's on the table here. Perhaps the most wretched thing is that just Pieter Omtzigt has worked in all kinds of ways for what you can grasp under the heading "restoring trust." And that confidence has been greatly damaged by this process and by the comments about him, by the people in the country, by the Chamber and certainly by the CDA group. The scouts and their successors are here on behalf of the Chamber. The last major question of this debate is the following: how are the scouts or their successors and the parties through whom they have been appointed going to restore this violated trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u583	Thank you. I see Mr Dassen on behalf of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u584	I've looked in the direction of the scouts a lot. I've heard you say that before. But also in line with Mrs Ouwehand, I say: I do not think the scouts are the only ones who are involved here, but it is mainly the role of Mr Rutte in this process that is being discussed here. We've talked about an open administrative culture before. I was wondering: how are you looking at the last week, in which Mr Rutte had actually lost his memory?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u585	I can keep repeating it: that has, of course, been very strange to me. I have said this in this House as well as in this House. Mr Wilders thought he could discern some distinction in that; that was not my experience. I think my irritation and anger here was at least as big as the interrupting microphone. I asked, and I ask again, how could adult people, with in my perception an excellent memory, just that crucial piece of information couldn't penetrate from their memory anymore. That is, of course, the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u586	I have just heard that Mr Rutte was mainly defending himself. That's what he said: I'm standing here defending myself. And I don't think defending is the only way to restore trust. So I also wonder how you looked at that, and how you would actually feel that Rutte should have done that, to ensure that we can continue here with confidence and that a bridge is also being built to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u587	Then I can do my whole term again, if I had to articulate what has to be done. I've told you over the last few days that as far as I'm concerned, if you're looking at the whole process, you should go to one scout, further away from politics, and you should do that in a completely different way. I think the process with that scout.................................................................................................................................................. That's one. Two. I find the novel of that second scout, and also members of a sitting cabinet, which is different from that of Mrs Schippers, who said last time: yes, but I am leaving politically vulnerable. I think that's vulnerable. Three. It's become deep in that exploration, from minute one. Just look at that list, that little table, and you'll see what everyone has already turned in for silver. I think that's all unwise. That's the first part. The second part is about what I find very uncomfortable, then I'm going to repeat what I said earlier, and which I really think should be changed. Mr Rutte apparently received information this morning that Mr Dassen, Mr Wilders, Mr Azarkan, Mrs Marijnissen, all those others and I do not have. Of course we can't, because we'll be back here in a week with another version of the same misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u588	Thank you, Mr. Hoekstra. And congratulations on your maiden speech. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u589	Thank you, Mr President. Over the past few days, last week, we have had a very ugly insight into the old power politics of the VVD. This is no surprise to the SP group. We were perhaps a little less surprised than some of the other groups in this Chamber. We already knew what was going on, but now the whole of the Netherlands has been able to see it. I think that's good. It has often been said that it was an accident that the photo of the scout's note came out. But we don't think so. The whole of the Netherlands has seen it now, and now is the time to deal with it. We already knew about Mark Rutte. There is even a true doctrine named after him, the Mark Ruttedoctrine. We saw it earlier with the civilian deaths around Hawija, we saw it with Halbe Zijlstra's lies and we saw it with the dividend tax. Whether or not there are any memories of it, whether or not there are memos about it: we know that. But also D66, the role of D66, the scout of D66, who was caught with that note under the arm, gives thought. Because it was just D66 who campaigned with the slogan "new leadership"? I think it was the slogan of D66: release everyone, but don't let anyone fall? If you then see the photo of the piece that the scout and also the Minister of the Interior, Mrs. Ollongren, had under the arm, then they didn't just let Pieter Ommzigt fall down hard, no, it was much worse than that: he had to be actively wiggled. That's what was going on! That is very serious, because that is what the Minister of the Interior is doing, who is responsible not only for the smooth running of the elections, but also for our democracy at all. It is unacceptable to talk like this about the position of an individual Member of Parliament! So we have a lot of questions for those scouts. My first question. Can the explorers tell this Chamber once again very clearly who, when, at what point and in what Gremia they have had contact with about Pieter Ommzigt at all? Can they indicate whether they have contacted and/or had contact with Pieter Ommzigt themselves? Can they explain what the phrase means, which we could read in the notes, namely "anything about Pieter Ommzigt"? What exactly was discussed at that time and what is meant by it? How should we interpret that sentence? Mr. Chairman. Finally, perhaps the most important question. Why haven't these scouts been honest about the conversation that took place? And how do these scouts explain that their successors, the new scouts, including Mrs Van Ark, have said: that was not discussed? It would be "feeling" that something would have to do with Pieter Ommzigt. Well, we've got a nice insight into why that was felt exactly like that. How do they explain how it happened? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a few words about the arrogance of power. We got a look at that last Thursday night when Mark Rutte said: "No, no one is going to explain what happened here. No, that's not gonna happen.'. But of course we get a very ugly look at it again today. So many questions have been asked. It's become clear, whether you call it lies or not, that a falsehood has been told by Mark Rutte. If we then ask, for example, how it is possible that he was informed at 7.30 in the morning, then he hides behind a well and behind via-via. What we see here is the arrogance of power and we must deal with it. At the end of my speech, I should therefore like to address myself to the entire House of Representatives. We cannot accept what has happened here. The fact that in this way there is talk of a critical representative of the people in an exploration rather than about the content... I mean, we're seeing this old power policy here. There was no mention of solving the surcharge scandal. There was no mention of compensating the parents. There was no mention of the restoration of the rule of law. No! There was talk of dealing with the very person who acted along with our Renske Leijten. That was at the top of the list. That's unbelievable. That's not putting people's interests first, it's putting your own political interest first. That's the old power policy we have to break up with. That is my appeal to this entire House of Representatives. We must stand before the House of Representatives, the highest body, but also for a critical representative of the people, which has been discussed in this way. That's unacceptable. As far as the SP is concerned, there must be more answers today than we have heard so that we can have confidence in the rest of the formation process at all. This isn't an accident, Mr. Chairman. This is about our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u590	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u591	Mr. Chairman. Years of increasing inequality and division call for answers from a new cabinet. Before that people went to the ballot box on 17 March, all of us. But that's not what the leader of the biggest party, the VVD, and the scouts were working on. The formation was degenerate into total chaos due to the actions of Mark Rutte and the scouts. The confidence of the PvdA Group in that process is deeply embarrassed. The fact that during the reconnaissance several times there was talk of the position of an elected representative of the people is unacceptable and seriously harms our democratic rule of law. To make things worse, Mr Rutte has not spoken the truth about this. At first he refused to explain and he literally said in front of the camera: no one is going to explain this. He behaves like a sun king, who is not accountable to anyone. L'état, ç'est moi. It is unheard of and unheard of that the leader of our country's largest party acts in this way. Also the scouts have not been honest about what has been going on about Pieter Ommzigt. They have offended Parliament and the electorate. That is why I have the following questions to ask them. Why did they deny, in writing, that there has been talk of Pieter Omtzigt, our colleague, in the discussion with Mr Rutte, when that report shows that it is? Why did Mrs Jorritsma propose, when I read the reports, to offer the presidency to Pieter Omtzigt? Why does she think she's talking about who's going to be the President of our Chamber? That's what we're about! And why do the scouts think it was up to them to speak of Pieter Ommzigt? Mr. Chairman. Those who hoped for a different kind of policy after these elections have so far been deceived, and that is sad. Our country and we deserve better. As leader of the largest party, Mr Rutte took the lead in the formation. That's the deal, too, but it's degenerate into falsehood and chaos. Rutte spoke about the position of an elected representative with the sole aim of neutralizing a critical parliamentarians. He did not want to explain this at first and lied about these statements. And the scouts of VVD and D66 were willing to write down falsehoods in his best interest. This has brought confidence in politics down to a low point. This confidence must be restored before the formation can continue. Mr. Chairman. Then let's talk about the formation. The Labour Party wanted, and still wants, a substantive formation, with a exploration phase that provides shared analyses, for answers to the major challenges facing the Netherlands. Answers to people's concerns, where new explorers begin with a clean slate, talking about how the different parties see these solutions, how they see their role in removing people's concerns. A new scout must be appointed, who does not reside in the center of power like the scouts who have now been at work. The Vice-President of the House always gave a clear order to the scouts. It wasn't that. But scouts must keep to the orders we have given them. After that reconnaissance, we need to report and we need to be able to debate in this Chamber how things should proceed. Finally, Mr President. If you do what you did, you get what you got. It's gotta be different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u592	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u593	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate all my fellow Members who have been newly elected and, above all, all my colleagues who are giving their maiden speech today. And to all colleagues who have been installed here for the sixth time. Mr. Chairman. This is more than just a debate about a little problem, something that happened. More than a debate about a scout who had a slightly clumsy paper visible in the picture. I am also glad that it is not too much about this and that is what I want to say: everyone can make a mistake; that is not unusual. What was ultimately so explosive was what was on that form. I am glad that we have now been able to see in this transparency what has been said about it. What is so bad and why this is about much more is the political culture that we have with each other here in The Hague. And why this debate is being so keen on the cut is that it is about Mr Pieter Omtzigt, who has constantly pointed out the political culture. And by the way, more Members in this Chamber are a culture in which the truth always comes to light when there really is no other way. I address myself directly to Mark Rutte: you have become the greatest, heartfelt. This brings with it an extraordinary responsibility to ensure that there will be a new cabinet. It has to be said: in recent years you have succeeded. But with the attitude I see here in this debate, I am very concerned about the administrative chaos in which the Netherlands is now being dumped. You can't get away with it right now by saying, "I had no memory of it" and then saying, "When did I screw you all up? Trust me." You can't get away with saying, "I'm not gonna give up my source. It's up to me to make sure that doesn't happen again." That's not up to you. The process of reconnaissance is not the leader of the largest party. This reconnaissance belongs to all of us here in Parliament. I want to be able to trust that what I'm saying stays there and that that information doesn't get to other people sooner. That's why I take it so hard. That's almost unrelated to this case, you might say. But I want to know. The letter we received from the scouts is really not enough. It says that Mrs Ollongren was informed on Wednesday evening, but who has contacted the Prime Minister is still not mentioned. It's important to me. Let me be very clear: in this way we cannot continue this exploration. I would like to suggest that we return to this in the second term, at least in order to bring the secretariat back to the House of Representatives for this exploratory phase. I want to know where this came from. We all need to be able to trust that the exploration is for all of us and belongs to all of us. Mr. Chairman. My question to the scouts is: how come you have said over the last few days that no group chairman has been talking about Pieter Ommzigt's position, or even about Pieter Ommzigt? As it turns out, that has indeed been the case. We now have yesterday or what is it: this morning we received this pack of paper. Yesterday we heard a burning plea. There I really saw what Mark Rutte was doing. He said, guys, if we're gonna make this public, what's this gonna do with trust among ourselves? I don't think that's too bad. I'm not very shocked at everything I've read here. It shows that transparency is not so scary at all. But it could have been prevented. We could have prevented this if the leader of the largest party in this country had said a week earlier "that was me, I talked about it" and outlined the context. But once again the truth didn't come out until it really had to be, namely when all those pieces were made public. That brings me to the point, when it comes to the trust that we need to have in each other, why I find it hard to believe it. That is not in unwillingness to believe the story of a valued colleague, but that is in the fact that the story comes only when you really can't get around it, because it is written in black and white. That smells like arrogance of power. We have to avoid that with each other. Mr. Chairman. I want answers to the questions that have been asked. How is it that this collective amnesia has been there in the last few days and that everything is only coming up now that the pieces are there? We need answers to those questions before we can move on to the next phase. I agree with those colleagues who have said that we need new scouts. With all due respect to the two people who have been appointed, we need someone with a greater distance from politics. This process has to start from the beginning. Such an exploration will have to be aimed at restoring confidence in the first phase. But to be honest, instead of having been able to make a recovery here, the traces left behind by this debate are so incredibly deep that we still have to deal with this for a long time to come. That is not possible, because while we are having this debate, reports are coming from the hospitals in Brabant, which have to scale down ordinary care and do their best to keep their heads above water. The same applies to all those entrepreneurs in this country. It applies to tackling the climate crisis and to children in the education sector who are lagging behind. They are waiting for us to finally take the initiative to improve that. We've been working on each other all day. That confidence must be restored very quickly. This can only be done with absolute truth and complete transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u594	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u595	Thank you, Madam President. Rutte lied again. He said I didn't talk about Ommzigt. But it was. He says, "I'm sorry, I forgot." That's not the first time. How do we feel about that? There's been a lot going on over the years. Rutte had no memory of the memo on the abolition of the dividend tax. He had no active reminder of having been informed about the bombing of Hawija. He had no memory of talking about group immunity at the beginning of the corona crisis. Or, well, the corona situation. That is actually a better term, because, of course, there is no crisis at all. He had no memory of the amount of the deposed bitch deal. That was held back. He had no memory of when he talked to Halbe Zijlstra about Putin's datha. And now he has no memory of the fact that he has spoken to the scouts about Ommzigt. There are two possibilities: whether Mr Rutte suffers from severe amnesia, which makes him completely dysfunctional, or whether he is a pathological liar. In both cases, he is completely unfit as Prime Minister, unbelievable. Yes, also as leader of a large political party. Because this cover-up policy has made it possible that under ten years of Rutte the House of Representatives has become more and more out of play. Less and less information we get at our disposal and more and more we are half-informed or with language games. Memo? Well, it wasn't a memo, it was a note. All that stuff. Again: through Rutte he has heard something, but he doesn't want to say who. If we look at the time when he was informed, we have now received the letter, which, of course, we asked for during this debate, it is completely unclear how these lines of information run. And that's unacceptable. We should not accept this in a democracy that wants to see itself as full. I've been talking about a party cartel here for four years. I remember Klaas Dijkhoff saying: Mr Baudet always wants to talk about a party cartel, but we don't talk about things that don't exist in real life. I remember the media screaming about cartel, cartel. But thanks to Ollongren's carelessness perhaps we should be thankful for it somewhere too.The whole of the Netherlands has now seen what we have been trying to describe with that term. There's a party cartel. There are kongsi behind the scenes of the established power parties that decide on the jobs of people who need to be rewarded or promoted away. And now Rutte refuses to reveal how he, rather than the other listers, heard that he would have mentioned the name of Omtzigt. If he had indeed forgotten, which, of course, no one believes. In short, he has a whole system, a web of lies. Behind one door is another door and then another door that doesn't seem to be a door; that's actually a mirror. It is a kind of mirror palace of lies and retracing sources and stories. It's called the Ruttedoctrine by now. I think the Chamber is at a crucial moment now: are we going to accept this, that we are going to be sent back into the reeds with a brat, or are we going to show our teeth? If that does not happen, democracy here in The Hague will be officially broken. People here don't really think democratically. They do not think in terms of 150 people who have to represent the people, who have an independent voice, an independent will, and who thus oppose the cabinet. No, it's a kind of usury function of the coalition where everything is actually in government agreements and what isn't capable of being bricked up behind the scenes, and then what happens here is pro forma. That's what I've been trying to expose for four years. The power doesn't belong to the politicians. It belongs to the population and those politicians represent it. So even if Rutte leaves after today, we have to note that that concrete rot in our system is much deeper than just one person or one cabinet. The way we have seen today, with withholding information, half-informing the Chamber and then not answering questions or half-answers to questions, is unfortunately the standard. The cartel is falling apart in front of us. The political system is at the end of its Latin. A new cabinet must therefore work on changing the way we conduct politics in the Netherlands. It has to work on returning power to the population. So it should not undress that power, as has happened systematically over the past ten years. This also happened when Ollongren himself shamefully abolished the referendum: the first act of this cabinet. Every new cabinet that is about to be formed has a duty to re-introduce the binding referendum, to give full transparency about the interests on which the policy is based. And every new cabinet that's even being formed is therefore ordered to dismantle the cartel. And I'm afraid it has to be without Mark Rutte. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u596	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u597	Mr. Chairman. It was historic elections in many ways. I would like to begin by welcoming Mrs Simons as the first female black group leader and party leader in the Dutch Parliament. I think that's a nice and important signal. And also to all other newcomers: welcome! But, Mr President, it is also an historic formation, not a positive one. However, I would like to make a comment. There have been many comments saying that it does not look like what the Chamber is doing now. But it doesn't look like power is trying to hold on to its old position. The good news is that the old power policy is under pressure because the Chamber and newly elected Members of Parliament are really going to stand up for the highest body in our parliamentary democracy. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, we do so with 150 MPs. This means that the old dynamics of power must now be broken. We are now in the middle of that process, and I am proud that we, as a Chamber, are making a genuine attempt to put a stop to the policy of power that has led to very serious problems in the Netherlands. At least part of the Chamber is making such an effort. Because, Mr President, I do not need to remind you that the Chamber has been running after power for years, if not decades. A note is sent, a story hangs up, there are critical questions and then half answers come up: oh no, it was different again. This does not do justice to what the electorate is asking us to do, namely to control power on behalf of the people here, to fulfil our duties and to put the truth above all else. Mr. Chairman. I'm a little hesitant. I actually want to... So I could now put all these questions to the scouts in this debate, but I would simply like to challenge them and invite them to correct everything they have done wrong in the reply in their time limit. Because it can't be that the Chamber again... Here, I got that letter we got. It had to be a long time before we got that letter. It says: 'None of the group chairmen has spoken to us about Mr Omtzigt'. How is that possible? I can ask questions about it. How can that be in the report? You guys made that up? I think it would be better if the scouts today were to break up with that crap, with half truths, with not telling the whole truth. Let them say in one go what it really is. And if that is not possible, then there will have to be a parliamentary interrogation, under oath. But I really want to call on everyone to ensure that we Members of Parliament no longer have to constantly work on running after power, and not constantly put our energy into figuring out exactly what happened. Let's break through this. I also refer to the fine words of Herman Wijffels, last Sunday in the programme Buitenhof. He says: In view of the crisis we face, it is really necessary that we now, with each other, agree on a different governance style, whereby people are taken away. He says: We need a relationship between parliament and cabinet that fits in with the rule of law in our Constitution. The Chamber is the highest organ. The government must bow to the Chamber, not the other way around. We have seen in the premium affair that one of the reasons why it took so long for the drama to become clear to the full was the very closed governance style and the arrogance and the position of power. If we don't break up with that in this process, then all ugliness has been for nothing. The Animal Party makes an urgent appeal to all of us not to make that mistake. Mr. Chairman. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, we can only form a new government with parties that respect the rule of law on all fronts. That also means the relations between the Chamber and the government. Those who are not prepared to do so simply cannot participate in Mr Rutte's action. Lying is unacceptable. If the VVD Group insists on this, not only should Mr Rutte quit, but then the VVD Group too is really out of play when it comes to a next formation. I specifically look at D66 and the CDA to follow that same line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u598	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u599	Madam President. First of all, congratulations to colleagues Hoekstra and Kaag on their maiden speech. That is the only cheerful thing I have to say here in this rather loaded debate. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij said in an interruption 'I am upset here' and that is how I feel. There has been a breach of trust, perhaps a crisis of confidence. In the eight years I have been a member of this Chamber, I know one thing for sure: political cooperation stands or falls with confidence: trust among ourselves, but also trust in what we do here, in here, in people who look at this from outside, so people trust us. That confidence has been damaged, among themselves and between the electorate and the elected, and that is very worrying. The saying is that trust goes on horseback and comes on foot. In this case, trust has left with one photo and one memo per service car and can only come back through this painful, loaded debate, bit by bit, answer for answer, fact for fact. That's painful, but it's necessary, if we're gonna get the trust back. My first crucial question to the scouts. We read in the notes that we have "what to do with Omtzigt" and the famous phrase "function elsewhere." Is that entirely and exclusively to lead back to what has now become clear, namely the discussion with Mr Rutte? Or are there other sources? What do they find in that light of the statement made by the new explorers, who were talking about media reports and a feeling they had? How come these scouts, the old scouts, wrote in their letter that they haven't spoken to anyone else about Pieter Ommzig? That, too, was the truth. Madam President. This one picture of this one brilliant memo tells me a bigger story. That's not a good story. It tells the story of a exploration that does not begin with an assessment of political power relations, political similarities and differences. No, in the beginning of this formation it was suddenly about the negotiating style of my colleague Hoekstra and about the question what to do with Pieter Omtzigt. I told you, it's like it's a troublesome hummingbird you can't get rid of, while Mr Omtzigt is a very valued, persistent MP with a great mandate from the electorate. Madam President. This one photo of this one memo gives the impression that a formation is aimed at getting back to managing the country as quickly as possible after the elections, to fixing problems, to settling differences of opinion behind closed doors, to settling things that do not get in the way of critical questions from critical MPs and which are not hindered by conflict or debates whose outcome is uncertain. Madam President. This one picture of this one memo is like a mirror in which we really need to look for a while, no matter how uncomfortable the sight is. That inconvenience also affects our own group and myself. Everyone in a coalition, certainly a smaller coalition group, has an interest in coalition negotiations and compromises that are made in small circles. No one, no party in a coalition, can leave everything to the free forces of the Chamber. But now that we are forced to look in the mirror and see that our administrative style is at the expense of counterpower and the open political debate, we need to ask a few pressing questions, including about formation. Is it wise to have scouts who are so close to daily Hague politics? This does not disqualify the persons of the current scouts. But we need to think again very carefully about choices, including choices about these scouts. Would it not be better for the formation process to ask a scout who is less burdened with our small mutual inconveniences, who, by coming from outside, can bring the formation back to its boring essence? Wouldn't we have been served by a renewed role of the King in this process? If anyone guarantees discretion and distance, that's the King. We've had some years of experience with it and I can't remember any discomfort like we have today. Is it not advisable to define more precisely the process of formation in our Rules of Procedure? Madam President. I already talked about it: this is a crisis of confidence. We can only proceed with mutual confidence in this formation, when first the uncomfortable questions about that one memo and the notes we have had today have been answered. But we can only do our parliamentary and administrative work if we have the confidence and confidence of our constituents. Because that trust is now at stake, we will have to make new choices. We can't wait long with that. In a country that's still in the middle of a corona crisis, we can't really lose a day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u600	Thank you, Mr Segers. I have Mr. Dassen on my list, but I don't see him. Then I'll go to Mr. Eerdmans. Oh, he's from a whole other angle. What a surprise! Mr Dassen on behalf of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u601	On such a day as today, everything will be changed at the very last moment! Mr. Chairman. The first contribution in this Chamber I might have imagined completely different. It feels like a cold bath to have to take my first steps in this Chamber in this debate. This long day suggests that the administrative culture of the Netherlands is characterized by mistrust, search for ways out, the drifting away of responsibility. It suggests that the work in this Chamber involves a long search for information, where the governing power and the controlling power are directly opposite each other and the value of governing at all costs is assessed higher than the value of democracy and transparency. That this impression is aroused began with the publication of the famous note and ended with today's chaotic debate and yesterday's debate. Mr. Chairman. What was Volt hoping to read on the photos of the notes? That there was energy and innovation in, for example, the negotiating style. Whether parties want to focus on research and innovation. That they want to strengthen art and culture. That they are inspired beyond national borders. That a future cabinet dares to look at a true European parliamentary democracy. I can go on for a while, but that might be better for another debate. For now, it is important that we have the courage to rebuild the governance culture that has reached a low point. As a new party, we are constructive about this. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to say a lot today, but given what has happened over the past few days, I'm going to confine myself to asking myself a few questions. We also need to think ahead. After all the discussions I note that a clear mandate for a scout is necessary. This includes a clear job description. There has to be clarity about what we can expect. To get that clarity, we need to see a number of questions answered first. I therefore have the following questions to the scouts. How did your application process proceed to this position and what requirements were discussed with you during that interview? On the basis of what requirements in particular did you consider that you were fit to take up this position? Does it help a formation process when the scouts are so close to power? Do we, the House of Representatives, have a clear picture of what the process of exploration actually is, who is allowed to do what and who is responsible for what, and where we can find it with each other? The scouts noted Mr Rutte's comment in their report and wrote to the Chamber at the same time that none of the party leaders had talked to them about MP Omtzigt. Why did the scouts decide to do this? What motivated the ex-explorers to apparently include that MP's position in their reconnaissance? Do the ex-explorers agree with me that it is not up to them or a single member of this house to speak about that position? Does Mrs Jorritsma agree with me that the Chamber elects its President and that third party interference is undesirable? Why did Mr Rutte lie that no one would have talked about Omtzigt? How are formation processes done in other countries? Did you get a look at that? Is there anything we can learn from that? Think, for example, of a country like Sweden, which also has a multitude of parties and, like the Netherlands, the need to form coalitions. How can we prevent the possibility of releasing confidentiality from being used as an excuse to discuss more in the future in so-called backrooms? How do we monitor the dualistic structure in the exploration and formation process? Mr. Chairman. There is always a tension between trust and transparency. We believe that the possible risk that transparency can betray new confidence is now necessary to restore it in a structural manner. However, this House must be aware that transparency and trust sometimes live at odds with each other. This balance can be monitored by establishing a clear procedure for reconnaissance. Control must be at the forefront of parliamentary democracy. Without such control, confidence evaporates. Where trust evaporates, populists win. This is the enormous responsibility that rests on all of us. So now is the time to rebuild that trust with each other, so that we do justice to our parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u602	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. And congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u603	I think we'd do it at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u604	Yes, of course. We're gonna catch up. A maiden speech also includes a short suspension. Mr. Dassen, you leave your phone here. Before you know it, we'll come across something... but when a maiden speech is suspended, flowers are handed over and you'll be congratulated by colleagues. You all owe it! That's right. I now give the floor to Mr Eerdmans. With you, I don't know if it's a maiden speech. What's the deal, exactly? You can explain it there!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u605	Yes, Mr. Chairman, tell me, is this a maiden speech or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u606	I'd consider it a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u607	It feels like coming home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u608	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u609	Thank you. Thank you also for the congratulations for our appointment and entry. Welcome to the House of Representatives, where the lie rules, you'd say. Well, at least he's doing a lot of reconnaissance. We see that, and that is sad for JA21 to see that there is a build-up of falsehoods, half-truths, no memories, but memories, debt to the media, via-sources. The worst and most important thing at JA21 is three things. 1. The truth wasn't told today. Only after catching the whodunit, Mr. Rutte, did he come up with a slightly fuzzy story without memory. But the truth hasn't been told. The confidence in each other, and particularly in Mr Rutte, has, I think, fallen to zero. There's been a mess with Mr. Omtzigt, behind his back. Mr Omtzigt, of whom we have just heard how important he is that the political game should not be a game, that there should be no culture of not informing, of withholding back-up information. I will address myself personally to Mr Hoekstra, who is busy, but he can hear me. I'm addressing you, Mr. Hoekstra. If you accept this now, I think you will accept how we are losing confidence in democracy, how we see that the process is actually being wronged. But you will also throw your colleague under the bus if you accept that this is happening. Can you reflect on that? What does this do to Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u610	It's a little complicated, because it's your term. You challenge Mr Hoekstra. Mr Hoekstra has been here for a while. You could have asked him all kinds of questions by interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u611	I could have kept the question until the second deadline, but I am now focusing on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u612	I would like to give Mr Hoekstra an opportunity to say something, but above all you are going to ask the cabinet or the scouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u613	Yeah, I'm sure I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u614	Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u615	Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a rather curious style figure, but I will move along with it. In the end, of course, this debate is very much about memory and what do you know at a later date? I have to conclude that Mr Eerdmans' half-life is not so long that he does not know what I said in the first term. I think I have recorded it from a to z for Mr Omtzigt. I have put a large number of very intrusive questions to the explorers; with emphasis also on the question of why. Mr Eerdmans has been interrupting this himself. I think that was crystal clear, too, for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u616	We will reach the conclusion together today. That is why I am addressing you now, but we can also determine it after the second-term reply, after the scouts have spoken. I'm fine with that. But it does not relieve you of the duty to... I believe you speak the truth when you say that you are in contact with Mr Omtzigt and support him where you can. But if the conclusion of the debate is that the Wilders motion will be rejected and we will go along with Mr Rutte's blurry story, which is not something to be expected of us, I am sorry, Mr President-in-Office, then you are also standing with your back against the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u617	Again, this is a very special way of questioning and debating. I think Mr Eerdmans has just had the opportunity to reply to him in my first term. I would like to emphasise what I said in the first term and I will leave it to him to wait for the debate or to draw interim conclusions. That's on him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u618	I suggest that you proceed with your own contribution towards the ex-explorers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u619	Mr. Chairman. We think this is a total disgrace. I'll ask the scouts if they feel the same way. Do you agree? I see hesitation with everyone today. That question was also raised by Mr Wilders, I thought, in order to publicly support Mr Rutte's speech. I actually see this hesitation with Mr Rutte. I also saw hesitation in you, when you mention: we are leaving the crisis, we have a lot of work to do. Then I'm thinking, are you still the right man for that? That question has already been asked to you. Mrs Kaag was pebbly and said: here we separate our ways. I think that goes for more colleagues. Mr Hoekstra said: we are a monkey. The question is indeed whether we can fix that with each other. That's a question. I do not entirely agree with Mr Hoekstra that we stand as a monkey as a House of Representatives, because we do show our teeth. At least, we show them, but the biting has yet to be done and something has to be done. What I like is that it happens across the parties. As I have seen today, the debate is not necessarily limited to a coalition or an opposition, but it is very broad and Chamberwide that something needs to be done. Then let's show our teeth and not let it go out like a candle. Mr. Chairman. There are three things that have to be done to deal with this crisis of confidence, as I see it. The first is credibility. I don't see it with Mrs. Ollongren anymore as a minister. Nor do I see Mr Rutte as credible to continue. You can't beat that bridge anymore. Mr Rutte, I say it with respect that I can also speak for you, about the years behind us, but in this situation it seems to me that you are no longer the person with authority to get the Netherlands out of the crisis. I see a problem with the reconnaissance. I have said it from day one, Mr President: it has been a political reconnaissance. That's what I said at the Smoking Salon. Indeed, we do not need politicians in an exploration, but that will have to be independent rapporteurs who keep their distance from politics. We will therefore support the proposal on this subject. And finally, our own company. I went through the car wash as a new MP here in the passage, but I think our political company has to go through the car wash. I think we have something to do, and this is indeed about the arrogance of power, and I support Mrs Marijnissen in that. It's also about political amateurism. We are looking for more transparency, for truthfulness and a credible policy. Those are three key points, and JA21 wants to make a full commitment to this. And then I'll close with one question to the former scouts. Several people have seen you write that letter to us, even internally, I mean the officials who have helped you, which none of the group chairmen spoke to you about Mr Omtzigt. Hasn't anyone been around you who said, "But wait a minute, that's what happened"? Today we know that's what happened. After all, it was also written down. Hasn't there been any contact? And why wasn't that corrected? Mr President, that was the contribution of JA21. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u620	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. For you too: congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u621	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u622	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should like to congratulate all those who have made their maiden speech today, Mrs Kaag, Mr Hoekstra, Mr Dassen, but also those who will continue to do so: Mrs Den Haan, Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Simons. Mr Eerdmans is actually a bit of a doubt, because you can see that all the rules are never completely clear and that, as with the cabinet formation, there is always a lot of 'unwritten' left. I thought a while ago I heard a maiden speech from Mr. Eerdmans, didn't I? I was just checking it out. It was in 2002. That was indeed a while ago, so "welcome back," I say to his address. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet formation has begun with a false start. Around the corner was the remark "position Omtzigt, function elsewhere." This affects not only our colleague personally, but also the position of Parliament. Because no matter how you explain the sentence you have spoken, the suggestion is that a critical and persistent MP should be sidetracked. I have to confess, you're not making that up. In fact, if someone had made it up, many would have rejected it as conspiracy thinking. An urgent task is precisely to do more justice to the position of parliament as a counterpower of the government. Look at the letters returned to the scouts. Everyone says: what is needed after all affairs is a restoration of trust in the government. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the co-legislative role of Parliament's supervisory role. That is, of course, contrary to the suggestion made by that passage: to promote a critical MP. These leaked notes have caused a great deal of mistrust, and not only for the declaration of confidence in the government, but also for the formation of a cabinet, there is a need for mutual trust. Trust doesn't come back from a spicy debate, but it starts with it. And that is why that clarification was and is urgently needed. In the interrupting debates with Mr Rutte, we have already talked about the harmfulness of what he said earlier turned out to be wrong. But the questions are of course also addressed to the former explorers. For what is in the letter they have sent, namely that none of the group chairmen would have spoken about Mr Omtzigt's position, is not correct. Do they wish to clarify this? How did this end up in that letter to the Chamber? Why, as scouts, did they want to discuss the position of a Member of Parliament with Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag? My third question follows on from what was still going on in this debate. What about the information on this issue? In any case, it has become known that Mr Rutte has spoken about Mr Omtzigt's position and that Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma have also been informed of this. To what extent this could not be shared with the whole Chamber, my question is for, in particular, Mrs Ollongren. Mr. Chairman. The course of events we are discussing today is also a stress test for forming a new style. It would be good if this formation were to be thoroughly evaluated at a later stage, as would the previous one. A scout, a rather new figure on the state stage, runs on state law little developed ground. That is why I have three comments/questions. First of all, this one. The kickoff of the formation has started for some time in the Rookshop of the House of Representatives. It's not foggy what's happening there. The wish of the largest party for a scout to be appointed is leading. But that has vulnerabilities in it; we also see that. Isn't it better if, in this very fragile early stage, someone should be able to overcome party politics? It is perhaps very innovative what I am proposing now, but I am thinking of someone who has already been given impartiality, someone who has a broad confidence in the Dutch people, who can at any time call on advisers who know the blows of the whip, someone who, according to the Constitution, will have a role to play later in the formal appointment of ministers. Wouldn't that be an idea, just in that early stage of that formation, to bring back a role for this person? My second point is about the recruitment of the scouts, because at the moment they are all figures who are still in the political mud, both the old and the new scout. Wouldn't it be refreshing to ask people who are just a little bit further away from current politics? And my third and final comment concerns official support for the formation. The vulnerable aspect of the long-standing support from General Affairs, however expert, is that in any case there is a line to the Tower. It would be a good thing if this were to be re-weighted during the evaluation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u624	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mrs Den Haan has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS. Oh, Mr. Azarkan, have I forgotten you? Sorry, Mrs. Den Haan. Well, you've been standing here so many times, I thought, "You don't have to do it anymore." Mr. Azarkan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u625	That's okay, that's okay, that's okay, Mr. Chairman. And one thing remains the same, and that is that I have the pleasure of speaking after Mr Van der Staaij; that has indeed remained the same. I would also like to congratulate colleagues on their maiden speech, and also on those colleagues who are going to do so. I heard the Prime Minister say, "I hope we live in a country where you're allowed to make mistakes." I am really curious how all those tens of thousands of victims of the supplement scandal listened to those words. They weren't given that. The Dutchman asks us as MPs to provide solutions to problems and challenges. But since Rutte lied to us, we can't talk about that today. We can't talk about a way out and a new beginning from the corona miserable. Because Rutte has been cheating, we cannot talk about the tens of thousands of victims and how they can be compensated as soon as possible. And because of Rutte's falsehoods, we can't talk about 70% of our young people facing a burn-out. Because Rutte remembered otherwise, we can't talk about 400,000 children living in poverty and going to school without breakfast; about 4 million Dutch people suffering from racism and discrimination and Muslim hatred; about those 1 million homes that we still have to build. But today there's the opportunity to deal with Rutte's lies, or we're developing some sort of group immunity. We can say that Rutte's leadership no longer fits these times. And I hope that Mrs Kaag, who had a strong opinion on this in the elections, will also be true. Due to careless and careless actions, Ollongren has given a glimpse of what is going on behind the scenes, here in The Hague. And it's disgusting, it's staggering. We see a ruthless Rutte who, through his former Secretary-General Ollongren and party mate Jorritsma and through his officials, controls the information process as much as possible, and wants to turn it into his own. He doesn't rely on his goal of restoring power as soon as possible. Power games of old politics instead of ideals. And it's a glimpse of politics at its ugliest. There have never been four words in the country in such a way: "position Vertzigt: function elsewhere." It's been memorized a lot. And I can imagine, because we talk about that a lot... But actually, Mr. Omtzigt is standing here with a huge knife in his back. That's how he experienced it; that's what he said yesterday. He's beaten up. He's tired. And I've had the honor of hanging out with him and colleague Leijten in the supplementing affair. I have also experienced Rutte's adversaries and lies. A disclaimer should actually be placed in the position of representative: you slowly break down if you do your job well. It's bad for your health. You'll be countered. You won't get the information right away. You will have to ask a lot of questions about that. It could have serious consequences. You're gonna have to be persistent. You don't have many friends. I remember that it was painful both for Mr Omtzigt and for Mr Leijten when we were summoned on a weekend because we wanted to have an investigation into whether directors could be prosecuted for criminal offences. Some time later, the Tax Administration itself filed a report of criminal offences. Actually, it's a miracle that Omtzigt has lasted so long. Mr. Chairman. Actually, this isn't about Pieter Ommzigt. Pieter Ommzigt, that's us. That's the controlling power. It represents something much bigger. The question is: how is power, Rutte, dealing with counterpower? That's uncomfortable. We saw his first reflex: "We're not going to explain this. There has been no mention of the position of Omtzigt. No one has done that." He even spoke for Mrs Kaag. In that world of Rutte, you never answer. We've seen how the doctrine works. No one else could explain that better than Pieter Ommzigt. No information to the Chamber, no explanation, and if there's really no other way, you just say, "I don't have any memories of it." Even if it's only been a week. In this climate, it is not surprising that citizens are being ground and discriminated against by the government. It is a country where the Tax Administration and the police can profile ethnically and where independent, critical representatives of the people must be eliminated. If that control of power doesn't work properly, that power can go unbridled and strike horribly. If Machiavelli had walked with Rutte for a while, he could have added a number of chapters to his book The Ruler. We know what Rutte was up to: promote away. Far too difficult in the Chamber: pacify it with a job. Explains freely: give that man a position elsewhere. Finally, Mr President. As a room, we have to take the lead. We must no longer let the General Affairs officials do the formation, but rather start from the content, because we have been chosen here to come up with solutions to poverty, racism and housing shortage. That's what we're for on Earth. For that we will always control the incumbent power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u626	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u627	Twice a walk, once a maiden speech. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's my first performance in this political arena. Yesterday and today it actually feels more like a circus arena. We're standing here talking about a subject that we shouldn't have talked about at all. The reconnaissance should have been completed by now. We should have been standing here with each other to talk about the results of that. But, yes, on "had" you don't build a new cabinet. Let it be clear that there is also a need for more text and explanations on a number of issues as far as 50PLUS is concerned. Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesday I was allowed to visit the then scouts Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren. It was a pleasant conversation, in which we talked about the main points of interest to our party in a cabinet formation and how 50PLUS looks at a new cabinet to be formed. I am therefore very sorry that this process has stopped. Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren have done their job immediately, and that was the only right thing to do. Yesterday and today we did not give the Dutch citizens much reason to increase their confidence in politics. As far as I am concerned, the fuss that was needed about the pieces is completely out of place. It would have been better to give the Chamber full disclosure immediately. Even a prime minister who says he did not speak about Mr Omtzigt in front of the camera, but now appears to have done so, harms confidence. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it's unacceptable behavior from our head of state. Our country is in a huge crisis. Society hardens. People want their freedom and their lives back. There's been unrest over vaccination policy. Entrepreneurs want to get back to work, and so our country needs a very good, robust government, which is working with all these problems. Before coming to my questions, I would like to say here that I assume that any new explorers will focus purely and exclusively on examining the various coalition possibilities, thus clearly separating them from the role of an informant. Talking about MPs' positions is not part of their job. I find the enormous tumult that has arisen about Mr Omtzigt repulsive. This is a respected colleague. I've known him a long time from my previous position. I believe that Pieter is someone who is confused with decorum, position and status and is purely and exclusively concerned with the content and importance of citizens. He doesn't deserve this. I'd like to give you the following. In view of the developments that have arisen, it seems important to 50PLUS that there should be a clear and much more specific task for scouts, so that not again now or in the future explorers act outside the frameworks that are desirable and necessary. For 50PLUS, it is also desirable, in line with the above, to have a clear task with frameworks for the informant, in order to avoid future potential problems. The separation between the role of explorer and that of informant must be crystal clear. Then there are our questions to Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren. 50PLUS understands that the photographed note is the responsibility of the explorers, but 50PLUS would like to know who prepared the note and how it came about. Do Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma agree with us that exploration should only cover the main points that the parties intend to bring into the formation, and the question of who they might see working with in a future cabinet? If they agree with us, how do the former scouts indicate the part of the note on Mr Ommzigt that has come out? 50PLUS also wants the former explorers to be clear about what they think is meant by "you have to make something with Omtzig, minister." With what intention did that remark "position elsewhere" end up in the scout's note that leaked? What is meant by the "negotiation style of Hoekstra" and what effect does negotiation styles have on exploration, according to Mrs Ollongren and Jorritsma? Why did the scouts also deny that Mr Omtzigt was mentioned? It seems that not only Prime Minister Rutte has lied about whether or not Mr Omtzig is mentioned, but also the scouts. Apparently, the minuter was the only one who listened. Have the scouts tried to extract the comments on Omtzigt from the minutes? Finally, we would like to say the following. It seems 50PLUS better to appoint scouts who are not directly involved in current politics. That distance can prevent bias and control in an open and transparent exploration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u628	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I now give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u629	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and, above all, the best citizens. What's good, cherish. You're not gonna scare that away. But for some of us in this Chamber, it obviously didn't apply or it didn't. We just spent two weeks in the heart of democracy as BBB. We were very proud when we came here on 18 March 2021 on the tractor, so proud to go on as a popular representative. I can tell you that there is little left of that. Deep, deep shame we feel now. Shame, because what is good is apparently not cherished here and what is bad is embraced right. Before we go into the lies that have been told to us and to the citizens, I would first like to address the damage done to Pieter Ommzigt. Ms Jorritsma and Ms Ollongren wrote in their letter of 29 March 2021: "The disclosure of the note caused damage to the formation process and also to members of the CDA. We very much regret that. We apologize deeply to the Chamber for these mistakes." Apologies for disclosure of a note, apologies for damage to the formation process, apologies for damage to the CDA and apologies for damage to members of the CDA. Not a word of apology to the person Pieter Ommzigt. BBB therefore demands that today, on April 1, 2021, deep apologies be made to Mr Omtzigt himself. Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren also wrote in their letter of 29 March: "This should not have happened because Mr Omtzigt is an elected representative." That's a truth like a cow. But this should not have happened because Pieter Ommzigt is a human being. I don't know about you, but I was raised by my mother and father by the wise lesson "what you don't want to happen, don't do to anyone else." Mr. Chairman. We are utterly stunned by the lies that have flown over the table today. Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma said until last night that the note on Mr Omtzigt was written on their own initiative. No one believed this. However, only after repeated questions from this Chamber has the unspeakable truth slowly but surely crawled above the table. Not Mrs Ollongren, not Mrs Jorritsma, no, Mr Rutte spoke of a position elsewhere or something of that for Mr Omtzigt. Last week, we said that a number of times today, he lied very loudly that he had not mentioned the name of Pieter Omtzigt. Mr. Rutte calls that "no active memory." That gives everyone in the Netherlands a free pass to lie and cheat, because all you have to do is say "I don't have an active memory of it." For this reason, Mr Rutte did not want to answer at all last week, our question is still there. Is that why Mr Rutte wanted to try yesterday to fix the case in a back room of democracy? Mr Rutte has not convinced me yet. Is this also the reason why the scout's letter stated that none of the group chairmen had mentioned persons or personal matters, because they were indeed not the group chairmen, but strictly the list leaders? Are these letters from Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren perhaps dictated by Mr Rutte or edited? And were others involved in this? If that is the case, we want to know who they are and who they were commissioned to work for. Names and numbers, please. Mr. Chairman. Is this how we deal with the truth here: crafting it and passing on the proverbial middle finger? I'm sorry to say that I'm raising it up to society? Is manipulating the truth also part of the new normal that Mr Rutte keeps talking about? If BBB do not ask for the lower stone, the búrger asks for the lower stone. They pay you and me for a fair policy without blabbermouths. For now, stop lying. Stop playing games. Stop this snake pit. Good luck in the snake pit, was said to us last week. We must be ashamed of the fact that this is apparently the image of politics among our citizens. An image that Ommzigt and other hardworking MPs were adjusting. Until at least one of those people came home recently sucked out. Over and over again, citizens' confidence is shattered. Citizens are told juicy roots in election time, but after the elections tubers are sold for lemons. And then political parties can put tons of money, I say, millions of euros paid out of the pockets of our hard-working citizens into campaigns on new leadership, move on now and move on together. You can fill all the bus booths in the Netherlands, from Lutjegast in Groningen to Sluis in Zeeland, with the text that you don't drop anyone, but the Netherlands doesn't believe anymore. Mr President, I will conclude. For BBB it is clear that for Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren, who, whether or not manipulated by Mr Rutte or other persons, have been involved in this scandalous display, there can no longer be a function elsewhere, in any public service.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u630	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u631	Except for their elected First and Second Parliamentary Membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u632	Mrs van der Plas, it's your maiden speech, but you really have most of everyone's speaking time. So I would ask you to put an end to it. Otherwise, it's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u633	Okay. Then I would like to conclude with one quote from a citizen, because I think that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u634	I don't know how long such a quote is. If it's one sentence, you can finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u635	It's a sentence. Finally, I would like to quote a lady who said to me through Twitter: the mistrust has grown immensely among the citizens after the last week. How do they think they're gonna fix this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u636	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. The message came across nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u637	We'll put it on the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u638	You know exactly how it works. And of course congratulations on your maiden speech. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Simons on behalf of BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A great deal has been said today, and in fact there are no words that can really express what this absurdity actually means, what is happening here today, what is happening here today. Today my first debate in Parliament, a debate in which I, with many people at home, am amazed, but without being really shocked. Today shows us the derailed pride of the incumbent power. The incumbent power has assumed itself inviolably and only by a small accident did we get a glimpse into her wonderful world. It's like a Greek myth. They are an Icarus who flies too high because in his hubris he makes all reason in the wind. But, yeah, we all know how that turned out. There was on the wings and it melted, and so was the teflon layer that made it possible so far that everything slipped from Rutte. I shall be voting in favour of the motion of censure, not because Mr Rutte has once again made a mistake, albeit in conscience, and not because he has forgotten that mistake once again, but because there seems to be no other solution than his departure. After ten years of mistakes, ten years of lies, distortion and disastrous social degradation policies, we have no choice. I am not even talking about his refusal to take responsibility in the supplement scandal. Mr Rutte has become the symbol of an unreliable government. However, the problem is not solved when Mr Rutte has gone home. The system rot we're talking about today goes much deeper than the person Rutte. In my first 24 hours in this Chamber I have already met the culture here in The Hague. It is a culture where rulers keep information away from the Chamber and an environment where the representatives of the Dutch people structuralally and systematically I am going to say it differently than I have written it down. It is a culture in which they are lied to and it is a world in which the Prime Minister behaves like that cheating boyfriend who cheats on me ten times, asks: "Forgive me one more time, I will not do it now. Surely a man can make mistakes?" In my letter to the first scouts, I already mentioned the unsustainability of his position, and I wrote in the same letter that it is one of the important tasks for BEL1 in this Chamber to draw attention to the restoration of this rule of law. You were able to read it in the scouts' reports. We need to build up what's broken down. Today it is not just about trust, it is about the principles and foundations on which our democracy and the rule of law are built, the principles and the foundations that are being systematically violated in our Parliament. Of the institutional violation of the democratic principle of equality, such as the surcharge scandal, racism in our national police and all the examples that Mr Azarkan has just quoted... Yes, all these things together lead to this day: the parking of MPs at the formation meetings. There is no other way but to break this policy and these ideologies. However, that is an issue that will not be resolved today, but we can start today. And we do that by getting all the information on the table today. I hope that Mr Rutte and the two scouts will continue to cooperate. It is up to them to make the choice to be part of the problem or become part of the solution. All the information on the table means that we need to have more insight into the contacts between the scouts and Mr Rutte, and that is why I would ask the scouts to send that communication between them and Mr Rutte to the Chamber today and yesterday. I'm dizzy, but I'll come back to that later. Then the question remains as to who leaked all the information, but well... My questions to the scouts include: why did the scanning of a few notes take so long? And why weren't these pieces from this morning sent to the Chamber before 2:00 p.m. yesterday afternoon? You let us know "this is all we have," but there turned out to be more. And how come the new scouts this morning got new pieces from the old scouts, while the old scouts yesterday said, "This is it. Eight pages, that's all it is."? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. A society based on equality and justice runs counter to the way in The Hague people dealt with democracy and this exploration. I would like to ask everyone in this Chamber to meet today and to show solidarity for the interests of everyone in the Netherlands. This importance calls for a radical break with the status quo, a radical break with forgetting, twisting and crushing citizens. And that means a radical break-up with Mr Rutte. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u640	Thank you, Mrs Simons. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I want to suspend for dinner break, then the former scouts also have time to prepare the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u641	I give the floor to Mrs Ollongren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u642	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for giving us the opportunity to answer to your Chamber today as former scouts. Through you I can also congratulate the new Chamber on the installation and the new members on their maiden speeches today. Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by apologizing sincerely from this place as well, first of all of course for the words on the photographed A4, which should not have been there, about Mr Omtzigt and the position elsewhere. He is a very esteemed member of this Chamber and he is a parliamentarians pur sang. It is not appropriate for scouts to interfere in internal party matters. I understand very well that your Chamber is taking this matter very seriously. My apologies also apply to Mr Omtzig, whom I have also informed personally, and to Mr Hoekstra, whom I have also personally apologized for. Secondly, I apologize for the fact that the avenged A4 has even come out in the open. That's my fault, not someone else's. In this way, if I have the opportunity to do so, I would also like to explain how that could have happened. And, of course, excuses that this confluence of circumstances has resulted in the entire exploration process towards coalition formation being de facto stopped. Since this morning, I would like to add that, of course, I am going to deal with this in great detail; there are also many questions about it, and there is the point of the letter that Mrs Jorritsma and I sent last Monday, which appears to contain an error. I apologize for that, too. Mr. Chairman. I would like to outline exactly what happened on Thursday, March 25th. I arrived at the Stadhouderskamer that morning at around 8.30 a.m., where Mrs Jorritsma was already. We had breakfast there together. Actually, we were just getting started on our preliminaries. We planned two meetings that day, with Mrs Kaag and Mr Rutte. That's the wrong order: first with Mr. Rutte and then with Mrs. Kaag. We took into account that we would have more conversations that day or the next day. For the preliminary consultation we had a set of papers, of which the photographed A4't was part. Even before we started the substantive discussion, my phone rang and I got the results of a corona test that I had done preventively. It was completely unexpectedly positive. I'll be honest with you, that scared the hell out of me. That has to do with my own health history and with two chronic autoimmune diseases I have. We broke off the pre-consultation right then. I sat at a great distance with a mouth cap on. We have asked for advice by telephone how to act. It came out that we would cancel the calls and that I would leave the Binnenhof as soon as possible. I reacted far too quickly in the emotion of the moment. I literally ripped my stuff together and I left. Of course, I shouldn't have acted so hasty. I heard a few mildly about that, but I do not judge it mildly myself. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say something about the stage in which our exploration was at that time. Mrs Jorritsma and I had found that we were in a difficult moment of exploration. We were actually faced with a very difficult task. We had a first round of conversations. They produced an image of caution. You have seen the letters written by the chairmen of the political groups. Afterwards, of course, you have seen much more. It is precisely in an exploratory phase that the political heat of the campaign is supposed to cool down. That's what it's for. In a campaign, the parties are against each other, sharp. They'll collide. That should actually go into the exploration phase and later in the information phase to find what binds parties and what parties can agree on. That's kind of tricky right after the election, right after the campaign. In the first round, we had discussed with all the group chairmen the interpretation of the results, the substantive issues they considered important, the possible coalitions and the role of their parties in them. We also asked everyone, whether they excluded parties. On what part would follow-up discussions take place? In the follow-up phase, of course, we should also consider why the parties had a certain restraint, because as a scout you also try to find where the pain is between parties, where a possible lack of confidence is in the way. So that's tricky at first. People don't expose themselves in one conversation after a campaign like that. So in order to enter the next phase of the exploration, it was clear to us that we needed to have more clarity about the position of the CDA. Why? Because the CDA is the fourth party in number of seats and the favorite coalition companion of the VVD, the largest party in this Chamber. For these two reasons, we found it difficult to imagine a stable majority without the CDA. It was also clear to us at that time that the CDA was very reluctant to do so. We had also received the impression from Mr Hoekstra that he was not waiting for two scouts. That is why we wanted to ask for a better feedback from the discussion that had taken place with the President. The context of our considerations was also determined by coverage of the CDA. I think we all know the articles that were published in those days, which dominated the Hague media image. That was also about Mr Omtzigt. Of course not about a position elsewhere, certainly not, but about the CDA and its position in it. Words such as "whispering campaign" and the like have already been mentioned here. Back to the piece, the photographed piece, which was part of the notes prepared for that day. Those notes were actually on the process and on content, within the context as I have just outlined them. In those notes, which looked ahead to conversations that had yet to come, those words were "function elsewhere." That's what it said, possibly based on conversations. But that is something I can only do afterwards, because at that time, when I left, I had not read the note and we had not discussed it yet. So we never talked about why exactly it said "function elsewhere." We have not talked to anyone, with any of the group chairmen, about a position elsewhere for Mr Omtzigt. We also did not want to talk to anyone about a position elsewhere for Mr Omtzigt. It shouldn't have been there. It was there and we take responsibility for it, because we are the only ones who can do it. The pieces that were there were produced under our responsibility. The reconnaissance has been aborted, but I would like to assure you that we would not have raised this issue in any conversation. That wasn't our job, and that's not how we saw our job. We wanted to discuss their wishes with Rutte and Kaag in the first instance, including their wishes regarding the involvement of the CDA. So, for example, about what the VVD, who the CDA wanted to do with it, could do to promote that the CDA would like to get involved. Before talking to Mrs Kaag, it was obvious to ask if D66 would be willing to take a first step to the CDA or not, open questions to Mrs Kaag. That is the kind of question we would have liked to ask. Mr. Chairman. Then about last Monday's letter, March 29th. It has now become clear to us that the official notes of the talks with the 17 group chairmen show that Mr Omtzigt's name was mentioned in the discussion with Mr Rutte. We, as former scouts, did not have those notes and until today we could not have seen them either. Neither Mrs Jorritsma nor I have written that down in their own notes. You also have our notes, so you can verify that. That means that it has not been a relevant and to be highlighted remark for us. We operated in the context of helping create a stable coalition. That was relevant, the position of the CDA was relevant. And a comment about Mr Omtzigt in that context was not relevant information for us that we worked with. I say again: it is a remark which neither of us have noted nor remembered. We informed you at your request, Mr President, after we had already resigned as scouts. You asked us for a report. From the moment we stepped down as scouts we had no access to the scouts' office and to the information that is there. So we no longer had access to the documents there. We also had no support from the scouts' station. So the letter you asked for, Chairman, we wrote on the basis of our own notes and our own memories. And I would also like to stress here that, although in good faith, we have informed your Chamber wrongly on that point. If you read literally what we have written down, it says that there has been no mention of Mr Omtzigt. Turns out that name did. Let me say again: this is evident from those notes which we too have only seen today. The Chamber now has all the information, so the information we had ourselves and the information that was at the scout's office. I think it is important to emphasise this, also to explain that the scouts are appointed by your Chamber. They have the support at that time. But from the moment you're no longer a scout, you don't have it anymore either. That was the case on Thursday, I believe from about the middle of the day. I'm going to answer some specific questions, but maybe I should just finish the point of that letter. Mr Eerdmans asked: wasn't that letter you sent passed by the new scouts? That's the case. The letter was also sent by the scout's office. But the scouts only acted as a "postbox." That's what they said to us. No one said to us at that time: what you are now writing in that letter does not correspond to the notes that are here. As a result, there may be another point. I just said that until this morning we didn't have those notes. We got those notes at the same time as you got them. I was indeed called late last night by the new scouts about the fact that they had seen this. They also tried to call Mrs Jorritsma, but she was no longer available. Then we said, "Let's take this conversation back at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning." So I was informed late last night, but I didn't do anything with it anymore. I waited until we could talk to Mrs. Jorritsma. Mr. Chairman. I would like to wait for interruptions, and I would like to pass on all the questions first; I will do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u643	Well, I do think it's important that you finish your story. I keep a list of all the people who want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u644	Okay. I have heard a number of Members ask: how could it have taken us so long to get that information? So that's because of the structure. The scouts are appointed by the Chamber and are supported by a desk. I think there's been some confusion about what else we could do. We did what you asked us to do. But I say again: we didn't do that through the scouts' desk. Mr Hoekstra asked me to confirm that he did not speak with me or with Mrs Jorritsma, with us, about Mr Omtzig. I'd like to confirm that. That didn't happen, and that's not in the notes either. Mrs. Marijnissen wanted to know if I had any contact with Pieter Ommzigt myself. That's the case. Not on the day itself, by the way. At that time I only had contact with Mr Hoekstra because I understood that Mr Omtzigt was ill at home. I've had experience with that myself, so I didn't want to disturb him at the time. But when I realized he might be at the plant, I tried calling him a couple of times. Eventually, we had app contact with each other. Mrs Marijnissen also asked about the remark 'all kinds of P.O.'. How to read it, she asked. I can only point that out in the context of the newspaper reports I have just mentioned. I would also like to say to Mr Segers that the media reports... You may have suspected some sort of difference between Koolmees and Van Ark's reports and our letter. We merely wanted to say in the letter... Some said, "You blame the media." Of course not. We have taken responsibility for everything. We simply said that the context in which we had these talks was, of course, also the context of the Hague political coverage. That is of course relevant, so in that sense we have talked about media messages. Mr Dassen had a number of comments on how to get scouts at all. We didn't apply for it. We have thought I will at any rate; let me speak for myself that if such a request reaches you, there is only one answer to that. Mr. Chairman. I think I have the questions specifically to me... No, sorry, there were a few more. Mrs De Haan has asked for Mr Hoekstra's negotiating style. I think that's written down because we realized that was also a challenge for us. I have known Mr Hoekstra and his negotiating style for a long time. That's a tough negotiator, let me put it this way. We have not tried in any way to take anything out of the minutes or notes. If the Chamber asks for documents, then the Chamber gets documents and all documents, as far as we're concerned. So we didn't interfere with that. We were only very much in favour of providing them in particular. Mrs Simons asked about the communication with Mr Rutte today. I have been in contact with Mr Rutte at one time today. That was at 11:39 on a cabinet matter. We have indeed, I say to Mrs Simons, also provided our personal notes, in addition to the documents we had already provided yesterday. Those were the only pieces we had left, in my case, because I had taken them under the arm when I left the Stadhouderskamer too quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u645	I have Mr Segers, Mr Wilders, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Hoekstra, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Baudet and Mrs Simons. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u646	Actual questions. What I really don't understand is that there was no reminder of any discussion about Mr Omtzigt and that, on the basis of that, it was written in the letter that there was no discussion with group chairmen and that we then get notes of conversations, various notes in different forms, also typed out, which talks about 'function elsewhere', 'with Omtzigt you have to do something: Minister'; presidency. That's all come over. Wasn't there a memory of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u647	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At least we didn't have a note at our disposal. We had 17 talks on Monday and Tuesday. The first discussion was with Mr Rutte. This seems to have been the only one of the seventeen talks in which Mr. Pieter Ommzigt's name has been mentioned. That was not in my personal notes or in Mrs Jorritsma's personal notes. We have based ourselves on our own memories of the conversations and on our own notes. No, we didn't have that memory from any of the 17 conversations. That is why we have written it down in this way. We have not been able to verify that. Normally, if we had had access to those notes, we could have checked. We couldn't do that. So it is true, what Mr Segers says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u648	Is it true that Mrs. Ollongren remembered that later when she saw those notes? They're pretty detailed. It is almost a discussion report in which all the options, including the Presidency of the Chamber, are discussed and in which the speaker is quoted after a speaker. That's when that memory came up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u649	Well, in my own notes, there was one word I could relate to in the end. That is the word "stability" because stability was relevant. For Mr Rutte and for many group chairmen, stability is, of course, a relevant fact when you talk about coalition formation. When you talk about stability and the CDA Group, it was at that time a subject of attention of many. It was at the beginning of the first week after the elections. There were a lot of reports about it in the media. In this context, I can therefore imagine that it has been discussed there. But as I said, we had 17 conversations and it did not remain as a relevant point in my memory. So I can relate it back to the word'stability', but that is really all. It has certainly not been an issue that we have been discussing for a long time, and in which several of these options have just been mentioned, I have just heard the Minister's option from this Chamber, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u650	What I really don't understand is this. Then there's a lot of commotion. The memo becomes visible and appears in the newspaper. There's a lot of fuss left. Then comes the first statement from the new scouts. They come up with a rather vague story about something the old scouts had felt or a media image. That is the first reconstruction to take place, while at that time there are notes from officials who were present and who have written along, who are also payable. That could be questioned. First we have the first reconstruction of the new scouts, which is quite unbelievable. Then there will be a letter in black and white: we have not spoken to group chairmen about Mr Omtzigt, while there have been notes stating that this has happened. Why don't you go back to those notes? Why isn't there a reconstruction where the question is asked: am I sure I am telling the truth here? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u651	I can also imagine that Mr Segers does not understand that. Some things may be new to everyone, too. When we had resigned, we had no choice but to do so at that time, and I was convinced that we sent you a very short note stating that we had already informed the President that we would withdraw. At that time, therefore, we were no longer a scout and no longer had access to the scout's office or to the information that is there. That's actually good, too. When you're gone, you're gone, and you're no longer supposed to be supported by a scouting agency. We weren't scouts anymore. Then on Friday we received a request from you, Mr President, to send us a letter on the stage of the exploration we had done. At that time our first reflection was: of course, if the Chamber asks, we will, together with the Bureau, see if we can write such a report. At that time, our message from the newly appointed scouts was that the Bureau felt that it could not do that for us anymore. We were no longer a scout. At that time we practically thought: then we write that letter ourselves, just on the basis of what we have done and on the basis of our own notes, which thus did not show this. So until this morning we had no access to those notes. Again, I understand that too, because if you are no longer a scout, then it is no longer your information and then the decision on how to deal with it is no longer up to you. But it turned out to be a great handicap after all, because if only we could test it, then we would not have written it down on Monday in that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u652	Do I understand that this morning when the material came out was the moment when you realized that you had been talking about Mr Omtzigt, contrary to what you wrote to the Chamber, namely that it would not have been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u653	To be quite specific, it was only this morning that we were able to see those notes, namely when they were made public. That was at 10:30 this morning, I think. I don't know exactly. I got a call late last night from Wouter Koolmees and Tamara van Ark. They then realized, when they were collecting those notes, that there was something in there that was contrary to what we had reported on Monday. By the way, that letter was also sent to this Chamber via the scout's office. They agreed to inform us about that at the time. That was pretty late last night. Mrs. Jorritsma was not available at the time. I received that information at the time, but because Mrs Jorritsma was not available, we said: let's call tomorrow morning with the four of us. So between late last night and 8:00 this morning, I was the only one with that information, because I didn't do anything with it. We also discussed this information with Mrs Jorritsma this morning. At that time we were aware that that was not true, so we did talk about Pieter Ommzigt in one conversation. So I didn't see the notes until later this morning. And I've never seen one before, have I? Maybe that's just as important to mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u654	I would like to ask Mrs Ollongren: how crazy do you think we are? Stop insulting the common sense of the Dutch. Because they don't believe what you're trying to tell us. How credible do you think it is that both you and Mrs Jorritsma and Mr Rutte have accidentally forgotten what was not discussed ten years ago or five years ago, but about a week ago, a few days ago? How credible do you think that is if you send a piece to the Chamber which contains four rules on "VVD: indication of results" and half on the CDA and Mr Omtzigt? Then you are going to tell us that you have not seen it, that you do not remember it, that Mrs Jorritsma is probably going to say that she does not remember it. Mr Rutte, of course, is perfectly convenient. He also says, "I don't like it at all." This was a few days ago. A little further away from what you had under your arm when you walked away, which said "function elsewhere." That piece says what you discussed, namely: "If Wopke has more votes than Omtzigt, that will help. You have to make something with Ommzigt: Minister." That is not a detail, that is the essence of what you yourself, or at least your people have written down under'results'. Why are you fooling us like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u655	I'm really explaining exactly how it happened and how I remember it. We've had 17 interviews. The first discussion was with Mr Rutte. That was a conversation of almost an hour, in which indeed much was said and especially discussed in the context of the explanation of the election results and in the context of the wishes of the VVD, the largest party in the Netherlands, when it comes to coalition formation. She had a very strong desire to cooperate with the CDA in a new coalition. In this context, we have talked about stability. I just said it to Mr Segers: stability within groups is important in coalition formation. A lot has been said and written about possible possible instability in the CDA that week and also that Monday. In that context, we discussed it and it was also relevant for us as explorers to talk about it. Of course it is not relevant to talk about an individual MP, let alone about positions for that individual MP. But in that context apparently... again, those notes are there. Mr Wilders also knows that those who take the notes on these kinds of talks do so carefully and extensively. It's also a lot of notes. In that context, that remark must have been made in that way. Again, I remembered the relevant points for the reconnaissance. I wrote that down, too. That word is "stability" in my notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u656	Totally unbelievable, and I simply do not believe that Mrs Ollongren is telling the truth here. She says it shouldn't have happened, I apologize, it wasn't relevant. But it did happen, so it was indeed relevant! You spoke of Mr Omtzigt. You're acting like it wasn't supposed to happen and it never happened. In retrospect, you saw "Oh, there's something about..." "Well, maybe it happened after all? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, It's happened anyway." You've talked about it half the time, according to these notes. You shouldn't hide behind those officials. The fact that you say that this did not happen, that Mrs Jorritsma is about to say that Mr Rutte is lying the whole world together, does not make it true! You say, "Yes, I didn't write it down." You're suggesting it wasn't important enough to write down. Maybe it was so important it didn't have to be written down. Couldn't that possibly be the truth? Again, I do not believe at all that you are telling the truth here at the moment. Three people, two scouts and a prime minister, are trying to convince the Netherlands on an important subject such as Mr Omtzigt that they should not have done it, that they had no intention of doing it, that they did not think it was relevant, while half of the text in the note we have on Mr Omtzigt is concerned with. That is unbelievable, and that is a gross lie, and I regret it, because I would like the scouts and the Prime Minister to speak the truth here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u657	I'm very attached to that, too. That is why I am trying to answer as comprehensively as possible the questions that are being asked here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u658	In daily life, the ex-explorer is Minister of the Interior and thus also responsible for our democracy, for the smooth running of the elections. That brings me to my question. We can now argue that the former scouts and Mr Rutte say that they have no memories that Pieter Ommzigt has been mentioned, let alone a position elsewhere. But because of the notes and the pieces, we know that was the case. This is now recognised with retroactive effect. But then my question to Mrs Ollongren, who, of course, is also Minister, is responsible for our democracy: if someone in this case is Mark Rutte, but that does not matter if one of those list-holders comes to you in that Stadhouderskamer, day after the elections, and talks about a newly democratically elected MP, then surely all the alarm bells should go off to you? That is why I find it so unbelievable that there would be no memory of it. Surely it would be your role, by all accounts, to at least make a remark that that is not the intention of such a conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u659	On one point, I would like to make a correction to what Mrs Marijnissen says. There has been no talk, not with Mr Rutte and not with anyone else, of a post elsewhere for Mr Omtzigt. That hasn't been discussed. What has been part of the discussion is Mr Omtzigt himself. Mr Omtzigt's name is, as can be seen from the notes, cases in the conversation we had as scouts with Mr Rutte. Mrs Marijnissen asks whether I am also responsible for the functioning of democracy, because of the fact that I am the Minister of State and therefore have a special responsibility for the functioning of democracy, which I agree with her, and should not have set off the alarm bells. As explorers, we do not deal with individual MPs, because only MPs themselves are concerned with their own position. That's right. It is extremely important to underline this, of course. What we have done as a scout, also because group chairmen themselves have indicated, is to say that stability is an important factor in coalition formation. We have a Chamber with 17 political groups. That is quite a fragmented Chamber, with several majorities, which could all be small majorities. This has also been a relevant factor in previous formations. If you work with small majorities, it is important to know that there is a certain degree of stability. This is not about individuals, but about whether political groups think that they could go into such a phase with conviction, with the whole group. In this sense, it is best to discuss individual Members of Parliament during formations. It's happened a lot in the past, I think. But, of course, not about their position, because that is what MPs are all about themselves. That's certainly not up to us. That is why we have also said this regretfully and inappropriately, and I would like to repeat this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u660	A long answer, but I don't think I can answer my question. The point is that it is not really credible to assume that all of these memories have suddenly disappeared among the three of you. Surely you, as the Home Secretary, should have extra alarm bells if something like this is brought up? However, having said that, I still have a specific factual question. Can Mrs. Ollongren make it clear once again who exactly was that note you had under your arm, which said quite explicitly: Pieter Omtzigt function elsewhere? Who wrote that sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u661	That note was therefore part of the documents that we received that morning to use in our pre-consultation and then in conversations. Those are notes, notes actually, points to think about, to have in mind previewing the conversations. These are drawn up by the official staff. I repeat that we take responsibility for this; that is what we wrote in our letter. That's the way it's supposed to be. Politics has to do that. It's also suggestions to weigh. That was, of course, our task: to weigh up what we would have done with it or not. It didn't come to that, because that conversation was interrupted. So: official support, for weighing by us. And again: not discussed and not used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u662	Quite specifically, the General Affairs official who was at the service of the scouts has delivered that piece to you, and I assume you both, and not just you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u663	No, these are pieces that Mrs. Jorritsma and I both got on that morning. These are made by the administrative staff of the Lower House who are at the service of the explorers and seconded by the Ministry of General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u664	Mrs. Marijnissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u665	Yes, chairman, because it's such a sum. I myself had that conversation and, indeed, the first question asked when you come in and sit down is: how do you indicate the outcome? It is obvious that Mark Rutte of the VVD at that very moment, with the first question asked when you enter and sit down, has started about Pieter Ommzigt. We know that from the notes. Add to that that in the notes of the official who was present, is indicated by initials, "Annemarie Jorritsma, Mark Rutte, Kajsa Ollongren: all kinds of about Pieter Ommzigt." Yeah, all kinds about Pieter Ommzigt! I see Mrs Jorritsma reacting indignantly, but I think the question is quite right. Right? All sorts of things about Pieter Ommzigt: that doesn't just happen on one of those papers, does it? That's put on paper by someone who was with you at that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u666	Maybe I should start with what Mrs Marijnissen says: Mr Rutte immediately fell into the house and immediately started talking about Mr Omtzigt. Well, it sure as hell didn't. Indeed, the first question to everyone was: how do you indicate the result? I remember what Mr Rutte said in his notes: it is a very complicated result; it is a very complex situation. He also talked about the need to bridge the gap between politics and the citizen. He also made a number of substantive comments. I think it's all in the notes, too. In the end, he said in that context that he would like to join a coalition with the CDA. It makes sense, I think, for the leader of the VVD to say that. In this context, we have talked about the stability of political groups, including the CDA, and Mr Rutte has done so, but I have to take that up again from those notes. Indeed, I have to say things like 'I hope the CDA will recover', 'it will be complicated','maybe time is needed'. And then the context follows as I just outlined it and at that time played around the stability or alleged instability at the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u667	Quite apart from the fact that I find it unbelievable that three people at the same time forget exactly the same precarious subject, and apart from the fact that I find it really culpable that not all the alarm bells go off at the same time as anyone who starts, dares to start, about an individually democratically elected Member of Parliament, this is so unbelievable. In fact, one report contains the first question about the interpretation of the result: you have to deal with Omtzig. But in the official's report that was present, a lot further down the line is that of "anything about Pieter Ommzigt." So later in the conversation Pieter Ommzigt comes up again. That is what this report shows, at least, from these notes. If you add all that up, it's almost impossible to keep saying here that there would be absolutely no memory of that topic of conversation? Because it's true, isn't it, that this came up again later in the conversation? So it was not only discussed at the beginning, when the results were indicated, but also later in the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u668	I also have to rely on the notes that have been made, so whether that has been at one or two moments, I don't know. If that is apparent from those notes, then that must be the case, because, once again, they are insecure; I do not doubt that at all. The context was one of the explanation of the importance of the CDA, the fifteen seats of the CDA, when issues such as "can Omtzigt be retained for the CDA Group" were written in the media? and things like that. In that sense it was relevant, otherwise of course not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u669	I would like to return to the letter of 29 March, in which we were told by both former scouts, when the subject of "function elsewhere for Pieter Ommzigt" had already become very much a subject, and the Chamber also asked: do you want to clarify what exactly happened? It is quite clear: 'No group chairmen have spoken to us about Mr Omtzigt'. We are used to the fact that we always get very careful wordings when 'it has been found out to us so far' and so on. And here: very definitely. And do I understand that this great certainty is actually not based on any scrutiny by the official staff of whether it was true what the memory was?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u670	Yes. I'm gonna say it a little more precisely. Your Chamber's question, through your chairman, was to get a written report from us. At that time we thought that we could do so through the scouts' office, but we were told by our successors that this was not possible. At that time we thought that we would write that letter ourselves. We have done so, on the basis of our own memories and our own notes, but indeed without having the information that was in them. The letter we sent was sent through the scout's office. So I emailed that letter to them. They have received them, they have also tested them on a number of points, because they had made a few typos out of them. So they also read it, but not, as it turns out, compared to the notes that rested on it, because otherwise we would of course have realised earlier that that was not true. If we had written 'no one of the group chairmen spoke of a position elsewhere for Mr Omtzigt', it would have exactly knocked. But as it stands now, it turns out to be wrong, after all, to the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u671	And that, of course, is precisely the reason why this confidence is being called into question again, because why is there something so definite there that turns out to be wrong? Did you also consider putting that in that letter? "We encountered the obstacle that we actually met our..." Well, "we can't remember, but we couldn't verify it, because we couldn't get to the pieces, so you need to do it with this." Why didn't you choose to do that and say so clearly: no, it really didn't come up for discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u672	I think that Mr Van der Staaij is making a very valid point. I also think we should have written that down, again, because we couldn't check it either. So that would have been really wise. We have based ourselves on our own memories, our own notes. Moreover, I think that because of the fact that it was not in either of our personal notes, I think we have seen enough support in it to be able to assert it with that certainty. But Mr Van der Staaij is right, it would have been better, when we realized that we couldn't check or check, to keep the arm. That would have been much wiser.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u673	Finally, why did you assume that it was impossible to verify it with the official staff in the notes? It's not a law or a rule that's very hard on the law, is it? Why not look at: but the Chamber wants to know; it is important to be secure about this; it is just conversations that we have had, why should you not still be able to consult those notes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u674	This also applies: we have respected it. I speak mostly for myself now, but I didn't think it was that crazy. If you're off scouting, well, then you can't give instructions to a desk that works for the scouts either. There were also new scouts. If you make the analogy with "Let's say "an outgoing mayor": a mayor who has resigned can also no longer give instructions to the police. So that's how we considered it. We actually just took it as a fact. We didn't insist on that. There were new scouts, and that's just how we did it. But Mr Van der Staaij is right: at least we should have kept that battle for the arm and we should have highlighted that we did not have that information. I don't think anyone can remember 17 conversations at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u675	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to pull some things apart. I hope you will also give me the opportunity to finish each of these subjects. I would like to start with the point of that note, because if I understand Mrs Ollongren correctly, she did not draw up that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u676	I didn't make it personal, no. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u677	So that note was drawn up by the officials who support the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u678	Yes. Officials draw up such documents. I think that is a good thing, but I would point out that Mrs Jorritsma and I have, of course, taken full responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u679	Sure, I understand. But Mrs. Ollongren didn't write it. It has received this note from the officials supporting it. Did she give any input on the basis of which that piece was made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u680	No, not that either. The trial was actually as follows. On Monday and Tuesday we held talks with all 17 group chairmen on the basis of the pattern as I have briefly outlined. That was also prepared by the officials. Then on Wednesday morning, because we were unable to have discussions on that day because of the debates here in your Chamber, we sat together for an hour in the Stadhouderskamer to look forward to Thursday and Friday. Afterwards, the official staff began to work on the preparation of this. We received it on Thursday morning. The only thing I actively asked for in that sitting is the schematic overview that the Chamber has also received of the substantive points raised by the various group chairmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u681	Then I think two things are clear. It is clear that Mrs Ollongren did not write that piece herself, and I do not assume that Mrs Jorritsma did either. That is clear; it was drafted by officials. What is not clear to me is: what is the level of input that the scouts have given on the basis of which this piece was created?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u682	I find that a difficult question. It is a process that the scouts, together with the official staff, are going through very intensively with each other. So it is based on our discussions with the 17 group chairmen. It is based on what we discussed on Wednesday morning about what could be our next step. You have also seen it: the note contains, for example, matters raised by the parties. As an example, the Christian Union had said: we believe that it should be in the order of the size of the political groups, and that is not our turn for the time being. You'll find all these things in those notes. That's just based on everything that's been said there. I would also like to emphasise that the words 'function elsewhere' should not have been mentioned. They are not based on any discussion we have had, either with each other or with the group chairmen. Again, I regard it as suggestions and notes that you should have in mind, but also as something that we ourselves had to weigh in the political sense. So if it were meant to be, not as what Mr Rutte said in the discussion, but as something else, our weighting would have been natural: of course we do nothing with that, because that is not what we are talking about as scouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u683	Mr. Chairman. I say to you: I am working on the first of six points I want to make, but it is important to get this straight. What matters, of course, is the following. We have the variant in which civil servants, with whatever intentions, are breaking up. Mrs Ollongren is right, of course, that this is a matter of responsibility. I do not know if you can call it political responsibility for the exploration. That is a figure like ministers who also come across. Then they'll still have to take responsibility, perhaps without ever seeing that piece. But the question is whether it is that variant, or whether it is the variant in which input was provided by one or both explorers, after which that piece was made. is. That, of course, makes a world of difference in this debate: if it is the first, then I still understand why Mrs Ollongren says: I took responsibility for that, because that should not have happened. But that is really a different style figure than that the explorers gave input on that Wednesday morning and that on that basis that piece was created. Which of those two variants is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u684	It's the first variant. It is a piece that has been presented to us for the preparation of discussions that we would still be having. We did not read or discuss this because of the interruption on that Thursday morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u685	So it is out of the question that on Wednesday, in that conversation, which apparently took place with the four of us, there was talk of Mr Omtzigt, for example, or of the other subjects that were all included in the note under the list "CDA'. That must be out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u686	No, when it comes to the words "function elsewhere," that is out of the question. All other points are not. I mentioned the example of the Christian Union, but there are many more parties with views on coalition formation. This is based on discussions with the group chairmen and on our discussions on Wednesday morning on how we would proceed. We have made the choice to schedule two talks, a discussion with Mr Rutte and a discussion with Mrs Kaag, so that we can then determine how we could seduce Mr Hoekstra to come to our table again. This also applied to a number of other parties, of which we also felt it necessary to speak with them. But it didn't come to that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u687	I don't know if we're almost there yet. Still, it will be Thursday morning and on that Thursday morning both explorers will receive that note. What happens then? Then what's going to be done with that note?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u688	At that time we had the notes that are being made in front of us and we were going to talk about them not only because Mrs Jorritsma and I have our own way of working. We were going to talk about this because we expected Mr Rutte 45 minutes later and Mrs Kaag two hours later. But we never got to that. Again, I snatched those notes. I'd almost say, "I wish I hadn't." But I did, because I thought somewhere in the back of my mind that maybe we could continue the conversations digitally. We haven't discussed those notes anymore. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u689	Then I'll go to the second topic, but that'll touch here. How is it possible to say that it is impossible, but it is not the most likely variant of the text that has apparently been discussed in detail about Mr Omtzigt and other subjects related to the CDA and that none of the three political actors present could reproduce it, but the two officials involved could? Because that must have been the input. It wasn't one of the scouts who provided the input for the memo. It was the civil servants. They knew how to reproduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u690	First of all, Mr Hoekstra's first comment. There has been no detailed discussion of Mr Omtzigt's position. It has been discussed in the context of discussing the position of the CDA. That's right, but it hasn't been discussed in detail. The officials who do this work record everything very comprehensively. I haven't looked at everything myself, but they write along and a lot is written down. That's good, because then it's reproducible. Mrs Jorritsma said at every conversation: if you leave a letter or note here, it will become public, but if we use something you say here for our report, we will come back to you first to allow it to be authorised. For this purpose, these notes are made, so that, if it is necessary for the report later and for a follow-up step to be taken, it is possible to get back how and in what context something has been said. That's why they're such detailed notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u691	But then I don't understand the sum. You have had a conversation and apparently you haven't put in your own notes or saved it yourself that it has been about the CDA and also about Mr Omtzigt. That has not appeared in Mrs Ollongren's notes or been stored in her own memory. Then it's Thursday morning and there's a note. That note won't be discussed. Then the conversation breaks down and that note is photographed. That message beats with me, with my group, with the CDA, and with a lot of others, I will mark it again as a bomb. Of course, this is primarily because of what is said about Mr Omtzig. But it's a whole laundry list of cases that concern the CDA. If at that moment you cannot take back on the memory of that Monday, because that is actually what the scouts say, then at least you want to be 100% sure when you write a letter to the Chamber about the most brittle thing in that list. It was a rather brilliant list for the whole CDA, with all the compliments to my address and, of course, especially the comments to Mr Omtzigt. But I also think I've been asked ten times by people from my area: what did you say? Everyone believes I didn't talk about my position or Mr Omtzigt or anything. But you want to know, what did you say, maybe you forgot to put something back together? Anything completely different? So you want to be 100% sure. And what I find so hard to understand is this. There is then a sum of the first conversation, then on Wednesday the official political consultation, on Thursday the note on the table and then the photo. In that case, you want to know one thing for sure, and that's that you don't make another mistake in reconnecting to the Chamber of what was discussed in the conversation on that Monday. That is actually Mr Van der Staaij's question. So I'm trying to understand how that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u692	Maybe I can pull two more things apart. A lot has actually been discussed today, namely the letter of 29 March, in which it was wrong to say that there had not been any mention of Mr Omtzigt in those two days, Monday and Tuesday. At the end of last week, when all this was happening, and last Monday when we drafted that letter, we were actually much more concerned with those two words, function elsewhere. We were very much working on that: how can that be, why does it say so, and what is meant by it? We didn't really relate it back to those conversations, because it was a perceptive note, not a perceptive note. It was not a report or anything like that; it was a focus on the discussions that would follow. That is why it was of course very important for us to say this: those words should not have been there. That wasn't a case that played for us as part of the reconnaissance. Once again, on the point that Mr Omtzigt appears to have been mentioned, I would like to say the following. Yes, in the context of the question of the role of the CDA, the position of the CDA and the stability of the CDA, there is potentially an issue that we read about in the media. That was discussed in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u693	Then I'll go to the next point. If this happens, and it's so brittle, there's something you want. The scout called me; Mrs. Ollongren called me. I immediately called Mr Rutte about what was going on here. That was because I came back; I was literally in the car. There was someone sitting next to me that exploded. I said, what's going on? Then I got this served. I think that for many people in The Hague, at least for everyone in the CDA, the reaction was similar. What the hell is going on here? So that's what happens. Mrs Ollongren has experienced two preliminary stages of this apotheosis, because she has experienced the conversation and she has experienced the official political conversation. And she had that note on her desk. She didn't discuss it, but she had it on her desk. So here's what I'm trying to understand. If that's the sum total, and you're going to write a letter to the Chamber, then you want to avoid one thing, and that's that there's going to be something that turns out to be wrong. Then you can say "it's unclear; we have to figure it out." We all know how that goes in a ministry. You're gonna pull it all out, but where you're not 100% sure, you're gonna find a solution in the process, and you're gonna say "I don't know" or "we need to figure it out." How could it have gone so wrong in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u694	I would like to repeat what I just said to Mr Van der Staaij. We have respected the fact that, as former scouts, we were no longer able to obtain that information. We should have marked that in the direction of your room. Perhaps we could have said to your President of the Chamber: 'You are asking us for a letter, but we are not really able to write it, because we no longer have that information. We must now sail on our own memory." That may have been a mistake of ours in retrospect. We should not have done that, we could have said that, or we should have insisted that we could have seen that information. We didn't. We respected that we no longer had access to it; we had also resigned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u695	So after all, Mrs Ollongren thinks that this letter should not have been sent, at least that is how I understand her, not on the basis of that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u696	The letter was sent at the request of your Chamber. We are here as former scouts at the request of your Chamber. I also think it is right that we should be able to take that responsibility, even if we no longer hold that office. However, we have to note that we have informed the Chamber in good faith but wrongly on that point, because we no longer had that information. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u697	Fucking lies!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u698	I assume that Mr Wilders is not talking to me this time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u699	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u700	I have two questions. Let's talk about this reconnaissance and what that reconnaissance means in our state law. Does Mrs Ollongren agree with Mr Kamp that the exploration is intended to explore, not less, but no more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u701	I received a call from Mrs Arib on Thursday 18 March asking if I was prepared to join Mrs Jorritsma as a scout. We have had a discussion on this with the President and the President has asked us to do what a scout should do. This means that, on the basis of the election results and pending the installation of the new Lower House, the debate on the election results should be prepared and explored which coalition formation was possible. That was our mission, no more and no less. The questions we have asked: we have asked Mr Hoekstra exactly the same questions as the others. They dealt with the interpretation of the election results and the themes that were considered important, substantive themes or themes otherwise. This was about the role that a political party would like to play in coalition formation and which parties would be excluded. That was our mission and it was intended to produce a report. As you know, this is always the starting point for the debate in which the next stage can be determined, and if it succeeds in any way, of course, that will be the starting point for the appointment of an informant. We noticed in the discussions that there were different views on what should be the route of approach. A large number of group chairmen have asked us to do so through the content, and a number of group chairmen have raised fewer substantive points. And Mr Hoekstra has indeed chosen a different route. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u702	It is not so much about my route and I do recognize that a certain pattern was finished. Of course, I don't know if that's been the same in other conversations. But what if that is the case and that pattern of exploration, which I can still imagine is part of that exploratory phase, has ended in each of those talks? This could then still be in line with what Mr Kamp I have also described for the first time as how an exploration should go. A clear distinction is thus made between the first short phase of the exploration and the subsequent phase, which consists of the information. Then, after that phase with an informant, a formatter is appointed. We make a clear distinction between these different phases. If that is the case and that whole pattern is over, not less, but no more, how can that list of comments about the CDA be the resultant of that whole exercise? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u703	I hope that I have made it clear that this exploration should lead to a follow-up phase in which a number of parties declare their willingness to continue talking and negotiating on the road to a cabinet formation, coalition formation. In our analysis, the CDA took an important position in this. However, what was very striking... By the way, we have had seventeen pleasant conversations. Mr Hoekstra himself said that, and that is why I can repeat it here, but it was quite remarkable that Mr Hoekstra was by far the most reluctant. I understand that and I respect that, of course, but the CDA has fifteen seats. It is an important party in this country, and we do, of course, wonder what is going on and how we can get the CDA to at least have a follow-up discussion on coalition formation. Or does the CDA maintain the view that that is not obvious? That could also be an outcome. We have also taken into account that we should eventually report in our final report that this was not possible. That would have been a result, but of course we were not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u704	I don't know if we can fix it. The question is how this list, how that grid with questions, which apparently has been the same for everyone, finally knows its apotheosis in "function elsewhere," in "role of Hoekstra"..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u705	The words "function elsewhere" should not have been there. They were there. We wouldn't have done anything with it. It wasn't supposed to be about that. I have already said something about Hoekstra's negotiating style. Consider it a compliment. That's, I think, what it is. Other points are simply meant as'mental notes', as I think I mentioned in the telephone conversation with Mr Hoekstra, just things to keep in mind. That's it. It's not an approved and paraphrased piece that had something to do with. It was suggestions that we were given to think about how next steps could be taken. There were also things like: perhaps it would be good to have conversations with each other outside the table in the Stadhouderskamer. We would certainly have asked Mr Rutte: do you also have contact with Mr Hoekstra yourself? How's that going? If we don't make it through here, sometimes it helps to keep in touch with each other. That sort of thing. No more, and no less, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u706	I find it difficult to believe that three people have been sitting in a room and that is what we know now from the notes of two different officials, that is what we can see from the handwriting of a colleague of ours, Mr Pieter Omtzigt. If we follow those notes, and we do, it wasn't one comment; it was several comments in that note, in that report. I think it is understandable in itself that if a note is prepared for the next stage, if so much has been said about Mr Pieter Omtzigt... I am not saying that I agree with it, on the contrary, but I do understand how that step has been taken. What I cannot understand, and I ask Mrs Ollongren to reflect on that again, is: how can she and Mrs Jorritsma, because I hear her say that, have no memory of that part of the conversation? While Mrs Ollongren herself can now remember other parts of the conversation with Mr Rutte and perhaps also parts of conversations with us. Does she want to reflect on that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u707	First of all, that in those notes for that Thursday said "position omtzigt," I can understand very well in the context of those days. That there was "function elsewhere" not, unless it was meant to be a ministership. I could understand that a little better. How can it be that at least in my head and also in my notes that had not been written down, while it is in those official notes, there is, I think, everything to do with the fact that there is just a lot to be said in such a conversation, that I have tried to write down, to remember what I personally thought was important for the exploration to move forward, to move forward in our exploration, towards the report that we wanted to submit to your Chamber the following week. I also outlined the context in which it was relevant and that was about the position of the CDA and the stability or alleged instability in the CDA. I didn't realize, and actually I didn't until I saw those notes, that in that part of that conversation, which was just part of the whole thing, you can also see from the amount of notes that it was a long conversation in which it was about many points called the name of Pieter Ommzigt. I was convinced it wasn't. I was convinced it wasn't 17 times. That was also the case 16 times, but not once, in the first conversation. In retrospect, when you talk about the stability in the CDA and the role of the CDA, given the coverage in the media, it is quite conceivable that Mr Omtzigt's name was mentioned there. So afterwards I can get that back and relate it back, but it wasn't in my head that way, because I didn't think it was relevant either. I found the position of the CDA relevant, the stability of the CDA relevant, but not the position of that individual MP, other than what was written in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u708	I repeat: I still find it difficult to believe, because it was not in one sentence about Mr Omtzigt, no, there was talk of an option that Mr Omtzigt could become President of our Chamber. It also says that Mr Rutte said: well, we should not want everything. That's a form of conversation and not a few loose remarks, so I find it hard to believe. Then I'll go to my follow-up question. In the letter you sent to us, you wrote with certainty that Mr Omtzigt and 'function elsewhere' were not mentioned in the seventeen talks. You have already said: we should not have said that with such certainty, because we had only our own notes and our own memory to base ourselves on; we should have known that was fallible. I'm paraphrasing you, but you couldn't have the support of agency reconnaissance anymore either. But from what you just said, I think I understand, and I ask you to confirm that one last check on the letter you sent to the Chamber has been made. But nobody made a call that it might be useful to check not only the margin and spelling errors, but also the information in that letter? How exactly did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u709	I'll go into that, just the point of that memory first. I've tried to work with what was important and relevant to me. I've taken notes of that, too. I'm focused on the content and the process. In fact, I have not recorded any comments in this way, whether or not they have been made in conjunction with them. I still can't get it back that way. Then about the letter and the check. We wrote the letter ourselves, with the agreement that we would send it to the scout's office so that they would act as a mailbox for the letter. A check was made then, because at some point I got a call from one of the two scouts. He said: some suggestions have been made for the letter. Those were indeed typos and editorial points, so I'm going to say that I didn't ask that there was no substantive check on the letter from the scout's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u710	I'm still trying to reconstruct it. Was the check on that letter made by the same official support that you stood by in the conversations with us seventeen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u711	The office the Chamber has is a very small office, so it has to be, yes. Of course, they're the same people. But I don't know who did it. Again, I'll draw it out. I did not ask, but I would have liked to know, of course, that there was no substantive test, because if it had been done, I would have liked to know. We would, of course, have reworded it and written it down differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u712	Finally, Mr President. I'm trying to figure it out. So the letter went out. How did you contact the new scouts about this letter? You've consulted them. They have informed you that you can no longer claim the support of the agency reconnaissance. How'd that conversation go? Has the new scouts, as far as you know, not made any further substantive checks at official support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u713	We have had two contacts with the new scouts, namely on Friday, at the time when we received the request for a letter from your President, when we thought that this might also be done with the help of the scouts' office. That didn't turn out to be the case. That was reported to us on Friday. They also said that they could have acted as a post office box, otherwise we would have had to hand him over here ourselves; that could have been the case. They were willing to act as a P.O. Box, so on Monday, when we had completed the letter together, I emailed it to the scout's office. At some point I got a message from one of the two scouts that there were still a few editorial issues in it. Then I authorized them to be corrected in the letter and it was sent by the scouts' office, but only as a mailbox. We have also been informed of this: we can act as a mailbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u714	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u715	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The very, very last question. In the process of writing that letter, which you did on the basis of your memory, on those days, did you have any contact with any of us 17?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u716	No, I don't think so. No. Absolutely not, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u717	In the end, this debate, at least half of this debate, seems to mean one question: do we believe this version of what has happened, the version of Rutte and Ollongren, namely that an official has been very liberal in interpreting all sorts of things that were further completely kosher that would have been said about Omtzigt? I have to say, I just don't believe it. I don't think that's what happened. What I think happened is that there has been talk of: yes, we have to deal with it. How can we sort of disarm him? Let us then offer him or a place in the cabinet or the function of President of the Chamber or something else. This has not been recorded in the direct interview reports, but the official has heard it. She did make it that way. That's what I think. You can now say very often that it is not. That's fine. In the end, the Chamber must decide which of the two versions it believes. I believe the other version. I have another question, which is about the other part of this debate. That is the question of how Rutte was given all this information at half past eight this morning and I linked it to a question of state law, which I think is extremely important. The first is more of a question of confidence, but the second is the question of how it is possible that in this reconnaissance process, which should go out of the Chamber, the man who happens to be the outgoing Prime Minister, but who is doing so now in his position as chairman of the political group, much earlier than we seem to have been informed of all this by telephone or by any other means. The only one that I believe could have been, on the basis of this letter, is you, Mrs Ollongren, because you knew this late last night. It was not until 8 a.m. that Mrs Jorritsma was informed and Mr Rutte would have been informed at 7.30 p.m. So the simple question is, was it you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u718	I just said that I was informed by the two scouts late last night. I also said I didn't do anything with it after that. I went to sleep and I got up again. It was not until 8 a.m. that I spoke with Mrs Jorritsma on this subject again with Mr Koolmees and with Mrs Van Ark and nobody else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u719	Then I suggest we suspend the debate and invite Mr Koolmees and Mrs Van Ark here. Because at 7.30 a.m., there could have been only three people who really violated state law in a shocking way, out of line, and called Rutte. If it is not Mrs Ollongren if she says 'it was really not me' then it could only have been two others: Mr Koolmees or Mrs Van Ark. So we need to hear about that. They'll have to explain that to us as a room. So I'm gonna ask for a suspension until they get there in box K, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u720	An order proposal is a can-determine. So it's not something that needs to be done immediately. I allow it now and then, but I would like to propose that Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma first speak. Then I'm gonna see what your order proposal is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u721	No, a point of order must be discussed immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u722	No. That doesn't say anything, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u723	Indeed, in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u724	Mr. Baudet, Mr. Baudet. I will first give Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma the opportunity to answer the questions that have been asked to them all day and then I will come to your point of order. So if you have a question, you can ask it. If it's an order proposal, I'll do it at another time. I have Mrs Simons and Mr Azarkan, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Klaver and Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u725	First of all, I want to share my feelings. The unfortunate thing is that the more Mrs Ollongren tries to explain what happened, the more unclear it becomes. I'm sure many of you will remember that I used to work on television. Rule 1 is there: sit on the watcher's seat when you make a television programme. Make sure what you make comes to whoever you want him to like. And now I don't understand, let alone sit on the voter's chair. That's why I'm really worried about you. Each detail, each question provides a new detail, which results in a new question, while the questions that are asked are not answered. I asked Mrs. Ollongren if there's been any contact in the last 24 hours. I didn't ask if there was any contact today or this morning, but in the last 24 hours. And I actually wanted to repeat that question a moment ago, but so many things have been said since then that raises even more questions. One of these questions is: why does a "postbox" need to be sent from the scouts to the Chamber? Why can't he go straight to the Chamber, through the President? Or why can't that letter be sent to the MPs via email? That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u726	Yes. Maybe I should go into the question about the last 24 hours. I answered that question. The question was: has there been contact with Mr Rutte? I outlined that I had contact with Mr Rutte at 11.30 a.m. this morning. From that, you may deduce that that has also been the only contact in the past 24 hours. Why do you need a P.O. box? Because there's a procedure I don't know to get a letter here to your room. That is why it was nice that the scouts' office took it upon itself to at least offer that support. That was the only support, but at least we had to figure out how to get a letter here in an orderly manner. That was the "postbox function."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u727	As a viewer, I still don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u728	Your room has asked for a letter. The President has asked us to deliver a letter here in which we would describe what we had done in our exploration. We wrote that letter. Usually letters are delivered here in a certain way. I don't know that way, by the way. The scout's office was willing to do that for us. They themselves said: 'We do want to act as a mailbox, so if you mail the letter to us, we will ensure that it arrives at the designated place in the way it should.' That's the "postbox function."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u729	Because it is impossible for explorers to send an e-mail to the President of the Chamber or to the Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u730	Well, it seemed to me that the Chamber hadn't asked for an ordinary e-mail. The Chamber has asked for a letter, and so has the Chamber. There are procedures for that. The scout's office is well aware of these procedures and the secretariat has done so for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u731	Good. Like me, you don't know exactly how that all works either. Fine. Then you say: 'Yes, I answered the question, because I said that I had contact with Mr Rutte this morning.' Mr Baudet was right to come back to that, because we have a timeline that is not running very well. You've been in touch with the... No, let me ask you another question. The new scouts. You say, "At some point we were no longer a scout. The scout's office wanted to act as a mailbox, but we couldn't access the documentation that was in the hands of that office." My first question is then: did you ask? If so, and the answer was no, were you satisfied with the answer to the question why it could not? And just now I heard that those new scouts only saw for the first time this morning what was in the pieces that we received this morning. But those scouts have been appointed before and I can imagine that a transfer has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u732	That is not the case. The scout's letter you received today, I read quickly. I believe that the new scouts have also made it clear that the previous phase has actually been completed. We could no longer have that information, but the new scouts did not have that information at their disposal until the time when the Chamber asked for it. That is why I received that information together this morning late last night and Mrs Jorritsma and I received this information early this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u733	Then Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u734	It's getting really uncomfortable. I have been able to look a little bit over the last hour and a half and I can actually see Mrs Jorritsma looking anxiously at Mrs Ollongren when she is trying to say something out of her mind. No, no, you were very relaxed, I say; I've seen that wrong. A question for Mrs Ollongren. Mr Rutte says: I wanted to test something last Thursday, namely 'can't it be that I might have called for something after all?' He says, "I've been in touch with Mrs. Ollongren." Can you tell Mrs. Ollongren, through you, Mr. Chairman, how that call went? What words did Mr Rutte use? Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u735	I understand that Mr Azarkan is asking that, and of course I thought about it when Mr Rutte just said that. I certainly spoke to Mr Rutte that Thursday, if only because I felt that, alongside a number of other people, I should apologize to Mr Rutte for what had happened. I was very busy on Thursday with the consequences of that positive test result. I was working on: how do I go into self-insulation? I spoke to the G.D.D. and the G.P. It was mainly about corona and, of course, about the discharge of our mission. I have also spoken with Mr Rutte, but I do not really know exactly what we have exchanged in that conversation. We also spoke once over the weekend, as Mr Rutte also said when he called to inform me how I was doing. Then we thought a little bit more about what happened. If Mr Azarkan wants to know exactly what was said on Thursday, I simply do not remember. But I can confirm that I spoke to Mr Rutte on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u736	All understanding of Mrs Ollongren's health situation. We know it is precarious, so I find that difficult and I do not want to go too far on that point. But is the conclusion that the conversation was so that Mrs Ollongren's response was sufficiently clear to Mr Rutte to say "no, it wasn't mentioned by you"? I'll get that out of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u737	I heard Mr Rutte say that he asked or wanted to verify that at the time, but I really can't remember that. We talked about that that Saturday, I know. But you know, things kind of go the way they do. At some point, Mr Rutte's statement may be given to me again, and I think: well, then it's true, because I don't remember it either. It's hard to reconstruct it exactly afterwards. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u738	At this point, it is difficult to move forward. The question is whether it is plausible that if you, as Rutte, doubt what you said yourself, want to reconnect that to someone who was also with that conversation and does not get sufficient answers, you will not look any further. I think you would. Something else, though. If I listen carefully to Mrs Ollongren, she says: the CDA is crucial for a future cabinet. That is what Mr Rutte thinks, who is particularly committed to being the leader of the largest party. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u739	You saw the note yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u740	Yeah, crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u741	No, Mr. Rutte... I am not a spokesman for Mr Rutte, but Mr Rutte himself, also publicly, was the first to mention the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u742	Yeah, so crucial. I'll take it from here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u743	Mr Azarkan...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u744	Crucial, Mrs. Ollongren, is to convince the CDA. And what's crucial at the CDA? What's going on in there right now that's making it difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u745	Well, as I said, the stability in the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u746	And what does that determine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u747	I think we have just discussed this very extensively. The coverage at that time about the stability in the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u748	The crucial question, then, is, through you, Mr President, how it will end in terms of what you might say, the number of votes Mr Omtzig gets in relation to Mr Hoekstra, because that strengthens his leadership position. What's gonna Omzigt do? Then the conclusion is that it is crucial for the next cabinet to add a CDA that is stable. Next, if that's in the newspaper and everyone's talking about it, none of the three people who were at that conversation have even thought back: that might actually be the conversation, so you know what, we're going to look back in the reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u749	I am actually glad that Mr Azarkan says it, because as he sketches it, I think there was also a lot of talk about it in The Hague. It is therefore a good thing that Mr Azarkan says so here. I would ask Mr Azarkan to remember that, I think, we were thinking in particular about the words 'function elsewhere'. We couldn't place them. We also said that it should not have been there. We didn't want to do anything with that either. That's what we were very concerned about. I do not think we have sufficiently realised that if you are indeed talking about the CDA and about stability in the CDA, it is quite possible that Mr Omtzigt's name has also been mentioned in that context. So it appears that this is the case. That's what the notes say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u750	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u751	I've known Mrs. Ollongren since 2011. She was an excellent secretary-general who knew what was going on in her ministry and who knew exactly how to run it. I just can't imagine that if that's what it says again, it's crucial how the CDA is going to develop and how a number of things are going to develop internally there.You're going to say: yes, but I didn't focus on "roll Ommzigt, function elsewhere," but only on "function elsewhere." That's not plausible, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u752	Once again, Mr Omtzigt's position was only relevant because of the 15 seats of the CDA and the stability of the CDA. That was my focus as a scout, not the person Pieter Ommzigt and not his choices about his seat. Of course not. That wasn't my consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u753	Finally, this point has already been raised a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u754	Of course, we have not properly framed how the scouts relate to the Chamber, what the mandate is, etc. We have experienced this a little experimentally the last two times. But if there is a big issue, if the Netherlands has just grasped what is happening and what those four words mean, then it is also logical that at some point you should sit down with the President and perhaps also with the new scouts and say: "Oh, it is perhaps just as important that we give clear wine on this subject?' That makes more sense than you say: we were no longer scouts; we had no access to anything anymore, and so we sat there helplessly waiting and wrote a letter in which we based ourselves on what came to mind, instead of figuring that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u755	We have respected the fact that we had resigned as a scout and that we could no longer have access to it for that reason. I have also appreciated that we have been asked by the President to answer here, even though we no longer have that function. But indeed, that is why we did not have it. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u756	Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Eerdmans, Mr Klaver, Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u757	First of all, I am pleased that Mrs Ollongren has not received any complaints. I imagine you're really scared by a phone call like that that you've been tested positive. But then the questions. My first question concerns official support. How would Mrs. Ollongren qualify them? Were they people with experience? Were those good officials who helped these two scouts well in the process, or...? What would she say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u758	The Chamber has excellent official support for the explorers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u759	Okay. So we weren't shipped off with interns who were just doing this important work for the first time. Then I come to the next question. If Mrs. Ollongren says here "we were very surprised that on that note I didn't see myself so I didn't actually see it until after that photo was leaked "position Omtzigt, function elsewhere," and we were very shocked by "function elsewhere"; no idea where that came from," why didn't she call those good officials for a moment? Why didn't she ask: how could you have written that down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u760	For the same reason that we did not have those notes either, namely because we decided quite quickly that morning that we would give back our mission and therefore no longer had any contact with that official. I don't think that's pure either. I do not think that, after taking the consequence of a mistake I made myself and having resigned as a scout and returned the assignment, I can ask for further explanations. We didn't see it ourselves that morning, and we didn't discuss it either. I didn't think it was appropriate to contact them, so I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u761	My question isn't about after that. I have a lot of questions about that, too. It's the moment between the photo coming out, I assume you're shocked, because we hear here: wow, that note; I myself startled when I saw it and the decision to say: we can't continue as scouts, we give back everything and we're not going to ask those officials anymore. So we have to believe that you were very shocked by what's on that page, when you didn't call that official to say, "How did you come to write that down? Explain it to me, because it scares me. We have no choice but to resign. I have to make that clear to the President of the Chamber. This is really bad. But I want to know what's going on."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u762	As I said, I was also working on the positive test results. So I was also working on a number of other processes, such as calling the GP, talking to the GGD, informing a number of people who might also be affected. So, of course, I've been working on that for a lot of time. I was also in contact with Mrs Jorritsma about what we had to do. Because, of course, I saw that something had happened here that could have consequences. I've also called a number of people. I have called Mr Hoekstra twice and I have also called a number of other group chairmen on this. So I've had my hands full managing two crises. But it did not occur to me to contact the official support at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u763	Okay. Apart from the other questions, I am also saving a few for Mrs Jorritsma, so the story is that good officials have supported the scouts. There has been talk of Mr Omtzigt. The VVD considers it very important to rule with the CDA. Stability was one thing. No one can remember anything about that. The civil servants -- good people -- they'll write it down. The officials then also write down: well, this is apparently a subject of discussion. And then we have to believe that the former scouts are very frightened by this and that this just comes out of the sky from good people who have been sitting there, but that they do not ask for a moment Mrs Ollongren is also speaking on behalf of Mrs Jorritsma, who fortunately had not received a call that she had been tested positively on corona and did not consult with those people for a moment before they decide to return the order to the President. So that's what we're supposed to believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u764	Of course, giving the order back also had to do with the fact that this had happened at all. Of course, it is not intended that if you have been given such an assignment, you should accidentally disclose information that should remain confidential. That had something to do with it. I don't think the remark "position Overzigt" is weird. You can look at them in all kinds of ways. I didn't really look at that note until afterwards and what it actually said. Once again, I have also outlined that, when we were then going to give that explanation ourselves in the letter to the Chamber, we did base ourselves on what we remembered and what we had in our own notes. But the interpretation of "function elsewhere" could not be retrieved in any way. The note was also not meant as a look-back, but as a point of attention and preview. Maybe I should just make the following point. These are excellent officials, but officials should always be able to advise what they want freely. These aren't the orders they're doing. They're giving points. They come up with things that could be relevant. Politicians must then also make a weighting. Do we consider these relevant points to be relevant? Do we want to take it with us in our conversations? That is our responsibility. Officials should be free to advise. We must take responsibility for this. We are responsible for having a filter on it, so that not every official opinion leads to political action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u765	Finally. We could use a lot of words, but my question is just the next one. Mrs Ollongren asks the Chamber to believe the following. She finds that there was "position omtzigt, function elsewhere" very sad. But she didn't, because she hated it so much, call the civil servants and find out for herself: "What the hell happened here, guys? We have to resign. Before we do that, I want to talk to you about this." But she didn't say that. So she's asking the Chamber to believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u766	Mrs Ouwehand now gives a summary in her own words. I think I just described it a little differently than Mrs Ouwehand says. Mrs Jorritsma and I have just distanced ourselves from the suggestion that there should be talk of a post elsewhere of Mr Omtzigt. That is absolutely not the case, not in any conversation, nor by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u767	Going on, imagine that photo wasn't taken, that the accident hadn't happened. Would you have said, guys, I'm not gonna take that comment, I'm not gonna do anything with it, I'm gonna take it off the list, he's gonna take it off all these bullets, right away? Would you have done that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u768	I can assure Mr Eerdmans that in no way, in any conversation, we had raised a position for Mr Omtzigt elsewhere. That was absolutely out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u769	And you wouldn't have left all the other points? You didn't take it with you in that conversation, did you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u770	It wasn't an A4 that was meant to put a curl in the margin. They were issues we could keep in mind, weren't they? At the end of the day the A4 had left and another A4' had arrived for the next day. It's those kind of pieces. Again, they are not notes, they are not letters to the Chamber. These are points of interest, suggestions to do something with them or not to do anything with them, and we wouldn't have done anything with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u771	That's so typical of the whole list. I saw Mr Rutte nodding too. We know from that point of view that Mr Rutte did say that on 22 March 'what should we do with Omtzigt', or 'you have to deal with Omtzigt'. That's where that "function elsewhere" comes from. On that point, of course, you say that you had never taken it, and you would have left the rest. That's striking, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u772	I just want to say that leaving it or not is not the issue. The question is, would you have done anything with it? I can also assure you that I would not have done anything with Mr Hoekstra's negotiating style. There are more points. Maybe we would have made other points that aren't in these notes. That's how a trial works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u773	It remains so typical and also statistically such an incredibly small opportunity, but that has been said before, that there are five people, three of whom do not remember and two say: yes, indeed. They should have warned the new scouts that a wrong letter had come out that you wrote. Yes, you can tell that, but it is almost impossible to realize or understand that that is the truth, if I may put it that way. It is such a huge opportunity that it cannot be right, because there were two people who wrote it down, who even established it, in the presence of Mr Rutte, that it was said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u774	I have tried to describe as much detail as possible what we have done and how we based ourselves on what documents and when. Those notes are there. It's your room. We can all see from those notes that those remarks were made in that conversation. That's why we know it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u775	The letter passed the scout's office and a spelling check was done there. There was no analysis of the substance. That's weird, isn't it? That substantive check wasn't done with the new scouts either. How does Mrs. Ollongren judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u776	Perhaps it is good to repeat, in response to Mr Klaver's question, that I assume that no substantive check has been made, because we only received editorial suggestions. I'm assuming that the substantive check wasn't done. In retrospect, I would have liked to have a substantive check, because that would have saved us from the sentence that now turns out to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u777	The scout has a desk for a reason to make sure that these things are recorded. That's what happened. There are notes of it. According to these scouts standing here, and the new scouts, no action was taken when these scouts shared false information with the House of Representatives. At least I think that's weird. The politicians in question, like Mark Rutte, have no memory of what happened, but it has been recorded. There have been two opportunities for support to intervene, and that has not happened. My question is how Mrs Ollongren assesses that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u778	I have to do that from the position I have, so I can't verify that. I'm assuming that test isn't over. I'm assuming they've been compartmentalized with the information. So there was information from phase one, scouts Jorritsma and Ollongren. They've left; compartment closed. The following scouts enter, and then they start a new compartment. It has to be, but, again, I suppose, because I didn't ask that way. But I understand from Mrs Van Ark and Mr Koolmees that that is indeed the way it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u779	I'm not going to repeat the question again. I'd like to be able to ask that question to the new scouts. As far as I am concerned, the debate does not need to be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u780	I'll get back to you on that. That is Mr Baudet's procedural proposal. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u781	I understand. I would like to add one thing: as far as I am concerned, the debate does not need to be suspended; I think we should continue with each other. It is also late and there are plenty of questions and answers we are waiting for. Maybe they can get invited, then it can just go on at once and then we don't have to wait because there's suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u782	No, the Chamber has to decide whether to suspend or invite. You will have the floor in a moment, Mr Baudet. There are two other colleagues who have not had their turn. I shall return to your proposal and to Mr Klaver's proposal. Mrs van der Plas and then Mr Dassen, and you will have the floor. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u783	Much has already been said about this. Yet I am still curious about a few things, because it is still not quite clear to me. At the very beginning I heard you say that what is being said or what is being recorded was not really relevant. But apparently it was so "not relevant" that "function elsewhere," about Pieter Omtzigt, was typed out and in the papers and that this paper was on top of the pile. And it was the first thing you took when it turned out you were tested positive. So I agree with all the previous speakers: it is simply totally unbelievable. I also wonder what's going on here. Official support wrote this down. You saw at some point that this was written down. I also tried to quote it in my speech: if you see that and know that you can't, why didn't you say at the time "What's with that sentence about Omtzigt? Get rid of it!"? That needs to be explained a little more clearly, because I still don't understand it. Thirdly, I should like to add this: if this had not come out through that photo, it would never have come out in the picture that it did, which is very regrettable. We are meeting almost round the clock now, but no one would have known that all of this has played in the background. I would like to express my grave concern about this. Now it's out. It shouldn't have been known, but it would have happened. So it's something that's going on here. I would also like to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u784	Maybe on all three points then a brief reaction. First of all, I would like to comment on the suggestion that this A4 was so important that I took it with me. No, I snatched everything that was under my arm. That's exactly what went wrong. As a matter of fact, this piece was on top of it. For the same reason, the media image would have been on top. Then we wouldn't be standing here, I guess, like this. Then there's official support. We have taken full responsibility for the fact that this piece was there. That's the way it's supposed to be. Once again, officials must be able to write down everything. That is what we are responsible for. That's how it's supposed to be. We have also said that we do not think it is appropriate for it to be there; we do not want it to be there and we do not want it to be there at all. And then I come straight to the third point. Sure, if that photo hadn't been taken, we wouldn't have had this debate. But I can also assure you that the point did not exist, because we did not think it was part of our task to discuss the position of a member of your Chamber in the exploration. We felt it was our task to consider how we could proceed with the CDA, and also consider the stability or alleged instability of the CDA, in order to then draw conclusions as to whether it would be possible to discuss further coalition formation in a cabinet that the CDA would or would not be part of in a subsequent phase. That's what you need to establish. You've got a lot to establish in such a reconnaissance. You have to determine why certain parties are excluded. We would have had conversations before that too. You have to establish: is the fourth party of the country finally willing to talk to? You have to determine whether parties that say "we only want together"... Whether this is indeed the case at the time when they would not be necessary for a majority in numbers. All that kind of subject matter, that's what we count on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u785	But do you agree with us and that question has been raised many times today that there should have been no discussion of individuals, elected representatives of the people, and certainly not of any other party? You do agree with that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u786	Look, scouts have been appointed by the Chamber and are doing their job, let's say, separate from the parties. So we take Mr Wilders' questions as seriously as Mr Klaver's questions. It is not our job to talk about individual MPs' positions. Individual MPs as such can, of course, be a subject of discussion; I would not claim that there should be no names in such conversations, for example when it comes to stability. In this phase, it is a very early phase, it will not really be about people, but we know from formations in the past that it is very often about people. So I don't think that's weird in itself. It would be strange if there were thoughts on the table about, for example, a function elsewhere. And I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u787	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u788	Finally. Yes, the last question then, or the last announcement. It is still totally unbelievable that this "function elsewhere" has not been discussed. In fact, that here is denied, that there has only been talk of the person Omtzigt. Well, all kinds of things have been discussed, and not about a position elsewhere. But it's explicitly written down like that. And the official who wrote that down got it from somewhere. He doesn't just make that up, just to look at it like, "Well, what would happen if I wrote this down?'. That's just not possible, that's impossible. Well, I can put it as a question, but also as an observation, that for us, or for me, because I hear comments that I cannot talk about "us" because I am alone...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u789	I think it's very chic when you speak in plural as one man's fraction. And I tried to give maximum transparency and clarity to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u790	One question. If I understood correctly, you said yes immediately when Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag asked you to do the reconnaissance for them. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u791	That question has come from Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u792	Okay. So you did not talk about this before, Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u793	I did not talk to Mr Rutte about this. And I did hear from Mrs Kaag on the same day, so March 18th, of: you might get a call from the President of the Chamber. So that's the day that played it. And the question was asked by Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u794	Okay. At least today I understand that top officials have been involved in the reconnaissance. That is what Mr Rutte said today, and she also calls it 'excellent'. And I have also understood that civil servants always know very well what to record or not, what to write down and when something is relevant in a conversation. I am therefore very surprised that three people, present at that conversation, have actually completely forgotten that it was about Omtzigt, whereas those officials have seen it as something very relevant. So I'm wondering, how did you forget that collectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u795	I do not think that the officials who took notes there have recorded their relevance. I think you can see from the notes that have been given today that just everything is actually registered, except what is really irrelevant. But then we talked about the colour of a cake that we also offered you. For the rest, of course, the officials have just written down everything. That's also very good, because otherwise you'll never be able to get anything back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u796	One last question. It's about the governance culture, which I had a question about earlier. You indicated: When such a question comes, you say yes immediately. I can also imagine that you are a member of D66 and have worked for Mr Rutte for a long time. Then it's also nice to do this reconnaissance. It also evokes a bit of a club feeling. Mr Dijkhoff said in his farewell interview that, at the moment of club feeling, there is also a line of defense when problems arise. That feeling also comes up here a little bit, like it's happening here. I wonder how you look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u797	I'm not much of a club guy. The fact that I am a member of D66, minister for D66 and also alderman for D66 has nothing to do with the fact that I have also known Mr Rutte for a while, because in a previous life I was an official at the Ministry of General Affairs. That has nothing to do with each other. Again, it was quite unexpected for me. Frankly, the election results were also somewhat unexpected. I don't think there was a huge setup. At that time, when that request came, I thought I would have to say 'yes' to that. But there were no considerations of club feeling or anything like that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u798	Perhaps for the people listening, Mr. Dassen: I am not the one who appointed Mrs. Ollongren. That was on 18 March, which you were with, on a proposal from Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag. The question was whether everyone agreed to that. Then I called Mrs. Ollongren. This is what I'm saying to avoid any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u799	That's right, Madam President. But my question was actually the following. Ms Ollongren was proposed by Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag. I wanted to know: has that been aligned with her before? That was my question, actually. So I understand that this did not happen and that it was done directly through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u800	Maybe one amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u801	I think it's wise to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u802	Mrs Kaag did consult me that morning, also to know if I would want to do so. Then you met, Mr President, with all the group chairmen. You then approached Mrs Jorritsma and myself after that meeting in which this was apparently agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u803	Mrs Kaag, you just indicated that the paper...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u804	Mrs. Ollongren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u805	Mrs Ollongren, you just indicated that the piece of paper that you took with you in all commotion and emotion was a note from officials for weighing and that such a note is kept. Indeed, you decide whether or not to do with it and the next day a new note will come. Well, I just saw him on Twitter Wimar Bolhuis, perhaps you know him: economist, administrative officer, former political advisor and civil servant, who says: "It is impossible for an official staff to write down the suggestion for scouts to offer a newly elected MP a position elsewhere, so that the scouts can weigh this option in preparation. The executive or fourth power may not make that suggestion for weighing." All sorts of other government officials agree, but you repeat that these officials wrote this down on their own initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u806	I repeat that officials have the freedom to write down what they want to write down and to give any considerations they want to give. It is then up to politics to weigh that and to do something with it or not. I would like to emphasise the following. As a minister, I get policy notes. Those are very elaborate pieces that a lot of people have been looking at. That's what lawyers have been looking at and people from the financial department. It's been a little longer. These are more notes for the moment, I'll say, in the context of what we were doing. That's definitely of a different nature. But once again, it is also not relevant that it has been written down by officials. It was material that we had to work with and for which we take responsibility. We didn't intend to do anything about it at that point. In fact, we hadn't even read that and discussed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u807	Could you please tell me one more time when you actually read that note for the first time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u808	I believe that Thursday afternoon when I was in self-insulation. By then, we had actually done everything, returned our assignment and made all the calls I just outlined. Only then did I look very quietly what was in that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u809	You also said earlier that it was important for you to examine stability rather than Mr Omtzig's position. Did you then wonder why that came in the note and what its intention was?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u810	I'm suggesting that in the context of how the CDA was doing. The CDA may have needed a little more time to wait and see how it developed. That's how I put it. Within the CDA, Mr Azarkan said that, of course, Mr Omtzig's position is important. We have all seen what publicity has been about this lately. As a scout, you hope that there will be peace and willingness on the part of the parties, especially from the stable center, to talk about coalition formation. That was my hope. That is what the follow-up talks would have been about, and they would have been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u811	It's gonna be a repeat. One final comment or question, Mrs Marijnissen, because I would like to refer to Mr Baudet's procedural proposal, so that we can also continue with Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u812	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u813	Yeah, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u814	I have two very brief questions. I'm gonna keep talking about this official, because I don't get it. You've got a civil servant in there, who we know is good and experienced, and who's known to be very good and meticulous. Then something comes out, namely something very explosive: Pieter Ommzigt, function elsewhere. This is not about the stability of the CDA, because that is another item on the agenda. It was two different items on the agenda. It can't be that you're going to blow out a letter that hasn't been discussed? You are actually saying that this official created his own reality at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u815	There was no agenda. Mrs Marijnissen calls it an agenda, but there was no agenda. It was a piece with points of interest. The letter referred to the question 'at least that would have been more explicit in it if there had been any mention in those talks of a position elsewhere for Mr Omtzigt. That is not the case. In retrospect, it appears that, in one conversation with Mr Rutte, there was talk of Mr Omtzigt. That's what we've been trying to fix today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u816	I may have missed that correction, but okay. My second brief question is about the memories. On the one hand, Mrs Ollongren says: neither Mrs Jorritsma, nor Mrs Ollongren, nor Mr Rutte................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But you do know very clearly in my direction that it had not been mentioned at the beginning of the conversation, because that is where I asked you to speak about this and you also know very clearly that it was not about the position of Pieter Omtzigt. How can you say so specifically and so loudly about something that you actually say: I have no memories of it at all? 'Cause you didn't have any memories that it was about Pieter Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u817	I certainly have memories of all 17 conversations, but I have no memory of all the topics mentioned in those seventeen conversations. I have my own notes, too. That's what you have at your disposal. I also remember the first part of those own notes in the conversation with Mr Rutte. That wasn't the position of the CDA or the position of Pieter Ommzigt. This was about the complexity of the outcome and the importance Mr Rutte attached to closing the gap. Those are words that come back in my own notes and which I remember well from the conversation. I do indeed remember the issue of the stability of the CDA. It is only after seeing the official's notes that I can better place the context in which Mr Rutte should have made a comment on Mr Omtzigt. It's in those notes, so it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u818	Mrs Marijnissen, your final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u819	I have one more point, Madam President, on Mrs Ollongren's last sentence. She says, when I saw that official's note, I remembered. But after that, the letter blew out that no group chairman spoke about it. That's just not true, is it? Then you remembered, you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u820	The letter was sent last Monday. Then we only had our own notes, and this morning the officials' notes became public. That leads me to conclude that in that letter we simply did not inform the Chamber properly on that point, because it turns out that one of the seventeen talks was indeed the subject of discussion. The order is: Monday the letter, today the notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u821	Monday's letter? But Mrs Ollongren just said that she only then, on that Thursday afternoon, when she was probably at home well and well obtained from the positive test, had taken a good look at that note from that top official who is so good at noticing. It said very clearly: Pieter Overzigt function elsewhere. That's when you realized, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u822	No. That note wasn't a record of the conversations. It was a note for the follow-up interviews. Those are in my head, but also in reality, two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u823	Thank you. We shall then proceed to Mr Baudet's order proposal. This calls for a ruling in the Chamber, so I really must ask everyone to support or not to support it. The order proposal was to suspend and then invite the two directors, excuse me, the two scouts, Mrs Van Ark and Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u824	I was just about to take the floor, because I can live perfectly with Mr Klaver's amendment to my proposal, to invite them now and to talk to Mrs Jorritsma in the meantime. I think that's fine, but they should be invited now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u825	It's about inviting the scouts. You made your point very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u826	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u827	Yeah, support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u828	Agreed, support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u829	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u830	Mrs. Marijnissen, or whoever's behind the microphone. No, I want to hear you say it in the microphone, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u831	Excuse me, support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u832	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u833	I support it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u834	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u835	Support, also on behalf of Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u836	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u837	I hope I understood correctly. I understand Mr Baudet in such a way that he wants the two scouts to come, to make sure they answer the question whether they are the ones who called. I would like to support that request. I see him nodding. And I would be in favour of continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u838	So to answer that question, Mr Baudet proposes to invite them here, and he proposes not to suspend. Fine, that's it. Mrs Kaag will now speak and then Mr Dassen will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u839	I support the amended proposal. Perhaps we should clarify at the end what will be asked of the current explorers. It was one question, that's what I mean. Or is it another interrogation, or is it wider? I would like to confirm whether it is one question that is then asked, as I have heard from Mr Hoekstra, whether they were the ones who informed Mark Rutte or not. Is it one question, or is there a follow-up to other questions that are going to be asked about these two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u840	I don't know. I can't judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u841	I hear Mr Baudet answering outside the microphone. I support the request, but then it seems that it is with an option to ask more questions. I just wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u842	I can't judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u843	Support, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u844	Mr. Van der Staaij? It's okay, too. Who haven't I had? Mr. Clover? Mr Segers? It's important, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u845	I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u846	Mr President, in terms of time savings, I saw that there was a large majority and I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u847	All right, let's do that. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u848	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by warmly congratulating the new Members on their informal maiden speeches. I think they can really do it again. I hope so, too, because it is always a great pleasure to have a beautiful story in this Chamber once in your career uninterrupted. That is what I wish them all. Congratulations, however! By the way, we also had a cake with all these new members during the conversations we had with them. And that pleasure was not reserved for those who were long ago. That's it. Mr. Chairman. There's one question I've been asked that I'm gonna answer right away. I think it was Mr Dassen who asked me when I spoke to Mr Rutte about scouting. It became clear to me during the election night that they wanted to talk about me. Then I left the room. Then they talked to each other and then came back to me that I might be nominated as a scout, by the way, with the uncertainty whether the Chamber would accept that. Well, I get that, too. I left right then because I felt that from that moment on I should no longer be in contact with anyone from the group and certainly not with the list leader. I have not spoken to Mr Rutte since then either. I have therefore not been involved in the formulation of the mission, at least not in the contribution he would like to make to the scout. I said earlier in an interruption that I first spoke to him when we all got a call from him on Tuesday night. We all got that phone call in a row during a conversation, and that was kind of interesting to see. I think, but I'm not quite sure that that happened during the conversation with Mrs. Van der Plas. It was in any case during a conversation with one of the last interlocutors. Then all of a sudden the phone went to all of us and it turned out that Mr Rutte was somewhat panicked, because he thought he should be here the next morning at 9:00 a.m. He said: I am still working and I have two debates in the House of Representatives tomorrow morning. He didn't see that at all. That's what he reported to the person he did end up getting on the phone. I called him back at night to tell him that we had decided to postpone the conversations for a day. That's all I talked to him about. No! I told him something else: he had to prepare himself for questions about his position on the PVV. That's what I reported to him. Mr. Chairman. I do not think I need to repeat everything, because Mrs Ollongren has really told us how it went. And that's how it happened. Of course, you're always trying to think of things. I myself find it very difficult to get back to why I simply have not been in my head anymore that we had also talked about Mr Omtzigt in the conversation with Mr Rutte. In any case, let me be clear that it was not about his position as a Member of Parliament. It was about the papers in the paper and the instability in the CDA. Monday, huh? It was the Monday on which it was still very unclear what it was all like. We didn't know how many preferred voices had been cast. The newspaper was full of "whispering campaign" and we were therefore also talking about whether the CDA was a stable party at that time. Will it be soon? Of course, we talked about this after that. Mrs Ollongren rightly said that we were getting the impression that we might need a little more time. I also called the President at some point because I tasted that there was a reasonable chance that we would not succeed in... What is it today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u849	March 31st.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u850	For the 31st, yes. It is indeed April 1st today. So it was on the 30th. That was, of course, the question asked by the President, because we would produce our report before the 30th. We had the suspicion that a single party and perhaps a few more parties would need more time to go through that process, which Mrs Ollongren so graphically outlined. I get that, too. I'm in politics long enough to know that if you've lost, it's just gonna take time to get over it and just get back into conversation about it. In view of Mr Hoekstra's input, we also provided that we would certainly need much more time for the discussion with the CDA. As a result, it has probably not stuck in my mind at all that we have, in any way, talked about Mr Omtzigt, and certainly not about a 'function elsewhere'. Apparently, I also mentioned the role of President of the Chamber. Yes, Mr President, with all due respect, I have once taken a shot at the Presidency myself. I'm afraid that didn't work out. By the way, I think that's another thing I think: it would be the last thing I'm saying you're gonna promote someone out of there. In fact, you're about the most influential MP there is, especially when it comes to the culture of the Chamber. So that's what I really said and margin of thought about the instability of the CDA and the question of how things are going with the CDA, and not at all as a serious option. Besides, who's going to talk about that? The room is about that! Not me, not us, not anyone, except the MPs themselves. And then someone has to run for office. So I can hardly imagine that, for my part, that has been a really serious remark, especially with all the experience I have. Mr. Chairman. I think those were actually the only remaining questions I had to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u851	Then I have Mr Klaver and Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u852	Indeed, I had another question about the point of "PO," Pieter Omtzigt possibly as chairman of the House of Representatives. Luckily, there's something to remember about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u853	Now, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u854	... I take it from the reaction, but could you perhaps elaborate a little more on the context in which that was discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u855	I do not think that was really mentioned at all, but it has been mentioned. It says "anything about PO," I read. I myself think that is actually about us talking about the whispering campaign, about the newspaper reports, because that was all on that first day, that Monday we had the first talks with each other. I myself estimate that I forgot, because, of course, we didn't do the sequel until a few days later, when there was also a very different situation. The newspaper reports had changed in the meantime. The word 'whispering campaign', which was still in the news on Monday, was no longer Wednesday. So that's my assessment. I don't know exactly, but at least I obviously said that, but it must have been almost like a joke, because it really can't be that I really said something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u856	Mr. Clover? Because the CDA was also called...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u857	Yes, but I actually want to finish this interruption, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u858	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u859	You take the office of President of the Second Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u860	Super important!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u861	Too serious, I think you would have made a joke about that. That is so relevant, because apparently that Monday was about stability at the CDA. Just to dissect it: Mr Omtzigt plays a role in that stability and a solution to that stability could be that he would be chairman of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u862	I certainly didn't say it that way. That is not the case, because then I would have really made a fool of myself, if only because none of us are talking about that. Because in my opinion, a Member of Parliament decides whether it has the ambition to become President of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u863	Now it is a summing-up of a number of things. We know that the note that was visible, which was photographed, was taken by officials. They do this not on the basis of what they themselves consider important, but on the basis of the conversations that have been made and the input that has come out of it. A number of times Pieter Omtzigt has been mentioned as Minister. Maybe as an astronaut, too. I don't know what was invented for him. But at least as a minister we have seen him come by and as President of the House of Representatives. It seems logical to me that you sum up that as a 'function elsewhere', so it has indeed been judged as relevant by the official staff, which is indeed excellent, I would say, because it has been dealt with in several places. So where does that big difference of assessment come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u864	Let me start by saying that I don't think it's a function elsewhere. I find it very strange to describe it that way. So I still can't place that point. The fact that it is no longer in my memory... that only leads me to think at all about a different position for Mr Ommzigt, but that we were talking about the stability of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u865	That's tricky, isn't it? It's about the stability of the CDA. In every discussion so far, as has been pointed out in this debate, it has been about a position, or as a minister or as President of the House of Representatives. Apparently the stability of the CDA was linked to it and would become even more stable if Pieter Ommzigt had a different position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u866	No, I'd like to reason the other way around. What I at least understood, including Mr Rutte, and I think it was said in the discussions, is that Mr Omtzigt can just get any position, so that it is not about "do we have to promote him away?', But rather about... That is what Mr Rutte said. I gotta tell you, that wasn't supposed to happen either...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u867	When did he say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u868	He said so himself this afternoon. I think that is what he meant in the discussions, and I think that was the conversation he had with Mr Hoekstra: that if Mr Omtzigt wanted to become a minister, there would be nothing to prevent him from becoming a minister, not that he should now become a minister, but that nothing would stand in the way of that. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u869	So what I'm wondering is, if we're talking about that, were there any MPs who did stand in the way of becoming a potential minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u870	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u871	Then the question remains. Because I can imagine you won't be talking about that in a first week. Moreover, it is not always for other parties to say that there are now very big problems. It has therefore been specifically about Pieter Omtzigt to report that in itself it is noteworthy that there is no problem for a possible appointment as minister, while we were far from there. It wasn't about other MPs. That's striking, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u872	That's why I suspect it wasn't in my memory anymore, because it was real and margin of the conversation about: how do we get another conversation with the CDA leading to a normal negotiation? We, at least the VVD, and Mrs Ollongren also knew that the VVD felt that it was very important for the CDA to come back to the table, because the CDA would become a potential coalition partner. It was in that frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u873	Final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u874	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u875	I am asking all these questions, I would like to say, because it gives me the impression that that memory is back in time. Was Mr Omtzigt's position important for the stability of the CDA, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u876	Well, the position... but, of course, it was about whether Mr. Ommzigt was doing okay at the CDA. I have read all over the newspapers that this was not the case in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u877	Wait a minute, not about the papers. Let me get this straight. Not about the newspapers, because we all read them, at least almost all of them. Was the position of Pieter Omtzigt important for the stability of the CDA for you as a scout?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u878	Well, I don't really know if that was important at the end of the ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u879	In that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u880	At that time we saw that there were still some problems within the CDA to become stable, if I may put it that way. At least that's how we understood it from the newspaper. But I must also tell you that I did not understand Mr Hoekstra very well. I don't know him as a tough negotiator, because I never had to negotiate with him. He's been my colleague in the First Chamber, but I don't know him as a tough negotiator. But that's how Mrs. Ollongren knows him. I didn't quite understand the conversation with Mr. Hoekstra, to be honest, because I thought it was a little complicated that we didn't get any answers there. But, of course, it's up to him to do that. I have also noted that I believe one of his first sentences was: we are considering entering the opposition. Then, of course, we discussed it further. What am I supposed to make of that? I myself realized that the CDA was just still talking to itself, so we had to talk to him at least once more to see if we could get further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u881	Let me return to my initial question, because you said something about that. I asked: Was the position of Pieter Ommzigt within the CDA relevant to the stability of the CDA for you as a scout? You just replied yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u882	He had to normalize. At least what I understood from the outside wasn't quite okay at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u883	That's interesting. So as a scout, you looked at the stability of political parties. You have also asked us about stability. I didn't think that was a bad question, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u884	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u885	'Cause we lost, and what does that mean? You are now saying that in order to improve this stability, the position of Pieter Ommzigt is important and, whatever that may mean, there is in any case fantasized by Mr Rutte about a position that could improve that stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u886	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u887	And by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u888	I think you are making it different from what Mr Rutte said about it this afternoon, at least I understand how it was meant to be, namely that there would be no blockades for Mr Omtzigt to become anything. I just don't remember saying that in that context: even that might be possible, of course. That's the hard part. It just wasn't in my memory at all. I didn't write it down either, because it wasn't linked to Mr Omtzigt at all. It was linked in the papers, the whispering campaigns and the resignation of the chairman, to all sorts of stuff in the CDA, which I can understand. That is why we also thought: we probably need more time to get out of it, because the peace first had to return a little. I must say that I am very happy with all the things that Mr Hoekstra has said today, because that indicates that stability is returning to the CDA. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u889	I'll finish and then I'll be happy to hand over the stick to Mr. Hoekstra. I imagine he's got a few questions to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u890	I thought I'd do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u891	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I wasn't mentioned as chairman. The conclusion that is compelling is quite serious, and that is that Mrs Jorritsma, as a scout, actually points out here: we talked about stability at the CDA, because that was a great concern for us, and we saw that Pieter Ommzigt's position played an important role in this. The fact that this is now coming up at 11:30 a.m. after a long day of meetings is rather serious to me. It sheds light on all the other issues mentioned earlier, both by Mr Rutte and by Mrs Ollongren and what has been in the debate before. We agree that this is not the job of a scout. It has to look, it may ask, of course, at stability, but that the stability of the CDA is the first responsibility of Mr Hoekstra and not of the scouts. How he deals with his MPs is a responsibility of Mr Hoekstra and not of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u892	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u893	You say here: I saw it as my task as a scout to talk about the stability of the CDA and Mr Omtzigt. I think that is a broad understanding of the task you have been given by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u894	Either I expressed myself unclearly, with all due respect, or you misunderstood me. I may have been sloppy in my statements. It could be just like that. I am also a little less used to the debate than Mrs Ollongren has been in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u895	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u896	What I would have liked to have said is, "Why have we forgotten at all? Because we talked about the stability of the CDA, the pieces we read in the newspaper and how it all works." We also wanted to discuss this with Mr Hoekstra, but we did not get that far. Because in the first conversation it was clear that Mr Hoekstra did not want to engage in that conversation with us. We were looking for a method of talking to Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u897	I've learned a lot of things. Maybe I'll take that point of more time first, because I'm sure that's gonna help. We've taken a week and a half more time now. I don't think that's helped so far, but you don't know what more time is gonna do from here. I would like to come back very specifically, because what Mrs Jorritsma says about that whispering campaign is simply not right. Yes, the president of the CDA had resigned at that time, but we're writing here Monday morning, Monday at the beginning of the afternoon perhaps. The articles in De Telegraaf......................................................................................................................................................... So how could that have made that Monday subject of conversation? So it could not have been about that whispering campaign, because that word was coined in that article in De Telegraaf on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u898	Then it's probably been in the wrap-up we've had after that. It was not, however, that there was nothing in the paper on Monday about the CDA. But of course we have Monday and Tuesday evening, and Wednesday morning another hour, talking about: how do we proceed? And yes, at that time we saw that it would still be rather complicated to clarify in the short term the exact position of Mr Hoekstra's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u899	Quite precisely: Mrs Jorritsma just said that Monday the whispering campaign was involved, and what was further discussed. That can't be true in my view, because in my view that article was Tuesday. So that couldn't have played a role on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u900	Then the whispering campaign is not what it is, but the newspaper was full of it. You can't deny that the newspaper was full of the CDA on Monday too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u901	I've been reading all these articles with all kinds of pleasure. But the highlight of stability and unrest, and the group, is not in those days before. Yes, the chairman had resigned. But again, I really stand, unless Mrs Jorritsma, on second thought, qualifies otherwise, that that whispering campaign is not Monday's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u902	It could very well have been Tuesday's. But, of course, the discussions we had were not just about the stability of the CDA with Mr Rutte. But just after that, we started looking at each other: how should we proceed, because how much time do we need before the CDA can look forward again? That was actually the concern we had. We were concerned that that would take some time. That was also the reason why I made a warning in the direction of Mrs Arib. I said: we do not rule out the need for more time. And I've learned in politics for a long time that time should be your friend, not your enemy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u903	I can tell by myself. I just couldn't help noticing that taking the time so far has succeeded suboptimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u904	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u905	But, Mr President, I'm gonna come up with a little bit of information on what's going on. Because in itself, I understand that this is also about the situation within the CDA. I have been asked for a lot of things, but there has been no mention of the situation within the CDA as a potential blockade. All kinds of questions were asked, but they were mainly about which variants I would have in mind, with the CDA always included. I did hold off that discussion, because I didn't think it was my fault. There I repeated what I said earlier, namely that there was a liberal engine block that I did not want to join. I believe, and still believe, that the two parties that have taken the initiative for these two explorers are the two parties that have said: we are going to do this together. These are the parties that should at least clear up among themselves: "Are we going for the variants appointed by the chairman of the VVD, including the CDA, or are we going for the variants appointed by the chairman of the D66 group, which were about "as progressive as possible?" There was a great deal of light in there. That is why I said: "That means that I am not going to go on about that either, and I will leave that with them." But I haven't been questioned about the stability of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u906	That's right. I believe that this is due to the fact that you said right away, about in the first sentence, that as far as you are concerned, the opposition is probably the most realistic. Because that's what I wrote down. And then we asked you how you indicated the election. You didn't want to do that. It's okay. I mean, you give your own answers. But that didn't get us into questions like that anymore. After that, you even said: a minority cabinet can also be considered. And you said that you hesitated about the way the trial started. Yeah, and then we kind of stuck in there. We also concluded that we should not push on to the CDA now. At least I concluded that for myself, and Mrs Ollongren didn't. I've concluded: at the CDA, they just don't need a conversation. That was my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u907	Well, we weren't ready for that conversation, even by the moves that were made before. Here too, however, I would like to highlight this very specifically, because otherwise these things, even here in the Acts, will go a different direction. Take that minority variant for a second. I have said that much more specifically, and that is also shown by the Minutes. I said that the majority variant was the most obvious, but that there are also experiences in countries where it is in a minority variant, countries with a system similar to that of the Netherlands. I think I mentioned Denmark. So that's different, that's been more specific. That is what I said about the role of the CDA. It has been more specific than Mrs Jorritsma is now depicting. Apparently, this was a matter of concern. We can make that up now. I would like to ask Mrs Jorritsma the question I have just asked Mrs Ollongren. I understand that that Thursday morning gave her her own health situation was a moment with a lot of different thoughts as well as about the formation process. The question we are concerned with is: how is it that there has been a conversation with five people? I am not saying that it is impossible, but it is remarkable at least and the three politicians do not have a reminder of a particular part of the conversation and the two officials do? I would like to understand from Mrs Jorritsma how she looks at her own memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u908	I made my own notes. I didn't write it down in there. From this I have realised that it was real and margin of the conversation as far as I am concerned and was not an important part of the conversation. I have looked again, and if you see what we have been talking about with Mr Rutte, that is such a list. It's also by far the longest list of topics we've discussed with anyone. This has been discussed somewhere in between, apparently. It just wasn't in my memory. I didn't write it down as something that was important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u909	Then let's make that very specific. So Mrs Jorritsma says: it has not been extended, but it has gone beyond and beyond the position of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u910	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u911	Inside, she says, it has been so concise and so aside about the role of Pieter Ommzigt, so aside, that it did not end up lying on the sieve of memory towards Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. I am not saying that it cannot be done, but that must be the observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u912	Mrs Ollongren has just said something else. If you look back in the minutes and you turn the film back, the name Omtzigt must have fallen somewhere, but in the context of the stability of the CDA. I'm sure it was. But let me get this straight. The note says something about... I myself think that if in the notion had stood alone "position Ommzigt," no one would have gotten excited about it. But it's about "function elsewhere." I don't recognize myself in that at all. What about the word "Override"? We concluded together that we didn't write down anything about it and that we didn't have it in our memory either. Reading the notes, I think: yes, I'm sure it's true, because it's written down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u913	I am not trying to sew Mrs Jorritsma into one suit or another, but she is saying: in the conversation it was indeed a material matter about the position of the CDA. That was enough to remain on the sieve of memory, because that was apparently a significant concern. That wasn't a minor, that was a relevant part of the conversation. Mrs Jorritsma also says, in my opinion, 'the next thing we need to do is to find something of that within that context...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u914	But just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u915	Were you done with your question, Mr. Hoekstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u916	I tried a bow to make the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u917	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u918	What I'm talking about is preparing for Thursday's conversation. In the discussion with Mr Rutte it was only very brief about the CDA. We started with a whole story. Mr. Rutte said we had to get more to connection and then he's got a whole line... Well, read the minutes yourself, because you all have them now. A whole series of topics have been discussed. There was also a brief mention of the CDA, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u919	I'm just trying to finish what we can and can't conclude now. Then it's even different than I thought it would be. Then Mrs Jorritsma actually says: in the conversation with Mr Rutte, it went sideways, limited on the position of the CDA and in that it was even more limited on the role of Mr Omtzigt. That's actually what she's saying. Is that right or is that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u920	If I try to decipher those almost unreadable minutes, then at a few moments it has been about the CDA and in there also about Mr Omtzig, but not so much about the position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u921	Then I have one other question. That is a question I have also asked Mrs Ollongren. It is clear that that note was made by the officials. Of this, Mrs Ollongren said 'it was not written by me', and I believe that. Did Mrs. Jorritsma give input on the points in that note?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u922	Input. Of course, it doesn't work that way. What is input? We have, of course, talked about having a second discussion, first with Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag, because we saw a problem in the views of the CDA so far. The question was also: how do we get the CDA at the table? Actually, that was kind of our goal. There's a whole series of topics on it. If I were in charge, I would have thought straight away: I think it would be wise to have an informal conversation with each other for once. Maybe we would have left it at that, too. I can very well imagine that we would not have talked about anything else, but it did not come of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u923	I'm gonna try one more time. I asked Mrs Ollongren the same thing. There are two variants. One variant is that the note is made independent and falls under the responsibility of the explorers. I'm not saying that's wise, but I can understand that. You sometimes have that situation as a minister: somewhere in your department a note is made; you have never seen her, you have not given any input to it, and congratulations on the ministerial responsibility. That's one variant. The other variant is a note that has also been produced with input from the ruler, and in this case the scouts. That is of course particularly relevant when it comes to Mr Omtzigt's role, but it is also relevant when it comes to my position and a number of other things. So if Mrs. Jorritsma says "I didn't deliver that input," I'm willing to believe that, but it's one of two. I want to know which of those two variants it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u924	I believe that Mrs Ollongren has given a precise answer to this: we have not provided direct input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u925	I ask myself the following question all the time, and I would like a response from Mrs Jorritsma. If I have listened carefully, and I have, Mrs Jorritsma has no memory of the fact that Mr Omtzigt and his position were discussed in the discussion with Mr Rutte. She read that back this morning in the notes and then she thought: apparently... I can tell by her body language that she agrees with me. She doesn't have a memory of that conversation, but she does know it wasn't about "Override, function elsewhere."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u926	I would have remembered it, no doubt. Let me put it that way. If that were the image, if the image were to be that we were going to argue for a position for omtzigt elsewhere, then I'm sure I would have remembered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u927	But the strange thing is that those notes by two reporters, by two officials, are.I repeat that again: they have both made a report on those talks and that both mention the fact that Mr Pieter Omtzigt has been mentioned in relation to a post. Yeah, somewhere else or here. Second President of the Chamber. Minister. I just can't reconcile that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u928	I said what I said about it. Mrs. Ollongren did the same. I can't make it anymore. We talked about the... No, we talked about the stability of the conversation. I take it from the report that we have therefore also talked about Mr Omtzigt, at least that he has been mentioned. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar ik kan niet anders dan terughalen dat dat echt en marge van dit gesprek is geweest en niet het kernpunt van ons overleg.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u929	I don't think we asked whether it was a key issue or a side issue. We think it is a matter of substance, but okay. Then something else. On Thursday afternoon, Mrs Ollongren did not contact the official who prepared that note in preparation for those talks. She just explained that. Did Mrs Jorritsma on that Thursday afternoon when she saw "function Omtzigt elsewhere" and thought "I don't remember" had contact with the official or with the Support Office reconnaissance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u930	I must confess that at that time the matter became so dynamic that I did not even speak to the officials at all. Mr. Hoekstra called me. We had to call back and forth immediately. Finally, we immediately came to the conclusion: "Guys, this is not possible. We simply have to stop now, because we can no longer do our job uninhibited when these kinds of notes are on the streets. That's not gonna work anymore." So I did not ask the officials a question; that is correct. But I actually don't think I've seen them either, because I left almost immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u931	I'm starting to be a bit of a fan of Mrs. Jorritsma, because she really speaks from her heart. I'm very curious because she said by the way that she didn't understand anything about the CDA's arrangement. She said she couldn't make chocolate out of it. Can Mrs Jorritsma say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u932	I was not used to it, but perhaps Mr Hoekstra's word 'negotiation style' will emerge there. I wasn't used to someone who said so briefly and very clearly that he didn't really want it all. All the other list leaders and group chairmen were very different. They told us all fresh and fruity what they thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u933	A personal statement by Mr Hoekstra. A personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u934	Actually, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u935	Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u936	I would like to highlight two things. I notice how many of the groups have married themselves at the first opportunity. That offers a lot of perspective for the rest of the formation process for these and genes. Let me be honest: there was not so much left on the screen, but I experienced it as a very pleasant conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u937	Well, then this point is also made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u938	Oh, but I do, too, actually. We did not have an unpleasant conversation at all, but it was extremely short on the content. I also had to laugh a little when those first notes came to you with all those white boxes at the CDA. But at the CDA we didn't get to ask that question because the CDA wasn't ready to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u939	That's clear. I also saw a white box at the VVD about racism. There was nothing there either. It's possible. But for a while. I see that some of my colleagues are ginning, but this is extraordinary... Yes, it's actually just not credible. You value a party, I say that through you, President-in-Office of the Council, who is actually still working on himself. That party has something of a leadership crisis, especially when it's on the union side, namely: the chairman takes his responsibility and resigns. That party lost. You could also say, given the experience you have, because you've been in politics for 25 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u940	40 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u941	30 years; excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u942	40 years!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u943	You've been in politics for 40 years. I told a colleague this afternoon. I read the week that someone was in politics for 40 years. I couldn't remember, but that was you. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u944	Forty-two it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u945	You've been there. So you'll find a party that's lost. 42 years; I'll give you those credits. That party lost. It is a party to which it is but the question is: that you have already determined on Monday that the leadership within that party is in good hands and is stable. And then you say: well, it's very strange that they don't want to marry the VVD, with your party?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u946	You're making a mess of it now, with all due respect. I have no doubt whatsoever of Mr Hoekstra's leadership. We have only found that the CDA, also in Mr Hoekstra's person, was still in the process of looking back and looking forward, as we saw it, a little too little in our eyes. I understand that Mr Hoekstra is looking at this a little differently and that he actually thinks that many parties have already sold themselves completely while I have seen it no different than an inventory of points that they wanted to talk about. We didn't get to that at the CDA. That's okay, isn't it? With all due respect, I think it is perfectly right for a party to have more time for that. I hope, by the way, that this will happen at some point, that the CDA can also deal with the content...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u947	Sure. That's weird, isn't it? But perhaps it was not a negotiation at all, I say through you, Mr President, to Mrs Jorritsma. Perhaps Mr Hoekstra was genuinely concerned and said: "Oh, no polonaise on my body, please respect that." I find that disgusting with a scout whose aim is to determine what stable majorities are. That is the essence, not so much the content, not so much the patch of lyrics that have all been read. The scouts say they don't understand the CDA's arrangement. I would actually say that you should apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u948	... and also the question of how we're going to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u949	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u950	Mr President, not entirely, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u951	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u952	Perhaps this is the compliment to Mr Hoekstra, who is indeed sitting with a party that has to move on, who has lost. In fact, that does not fit very well with the power policy advocated by Mrs Jorritsma. She says: it can't be that you don't want to get into the sea with the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u953	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u954	... and that you want to work on your own party first because there are still a number of things that need to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u955	We're gonna keep apologizing all night. I just said that everyone has every right to choose the position he has chosen. There is no question of a power party either. All I know is that the VVD very much wants the CDA to participate in another cabinet. I also know that the CDA is the fourth party in this country, with 15 seats, which is important. You'd really like to get that in a cabinet. Moreover, it is not so easy to create a stable majority, especially in the eyes of the VVD, which the VVD is also happy with, I'll say. That means you say you have to invest in the relationship with the CDA. Sure. It had to be done. That was also why we said: boys, we just need time to talk about it quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u956	Really the last remark, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u957	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I defy you, I know, but I do with love.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u958	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u959	If the scout's conclusion to determine how parties stand is that you don't understand what the CDA wants at all, then you haven't invested very successfully in the connection and in support, especially with those notes, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u960	I would like to draw your attention to what Mr Hoekstra has just said. Mrs Jorritsma said that, when they started talking to Mr Rutte, they based themselves on newspaper reports on the stability of the CDA. Those were newspaper reports that only appeared Monday night, Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u961	I think I mentioned the whisper campaign. It may be that that was only Tuesday, but it wasn't like there was nothing in the paper on Monday about the CDA. They were full then, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u962	Then I do not know exactly what Mrs Jorritsma based herself on. She uses words that only appeared in the media Monday evening and Tuesday, while the conversation with Mr Rutte took place on Monday morning. Then she says she doesn't remember the conversation, at least not that she talked about Mr Omtzigt's position. It was about the stability of the CDA, she remembered. In that context, the name of Pieter Omtzigt might have been mentioned. However, we can see in the report that it was indeed about various functions. Does Mrs. Jorritsma remember that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u963	It wasn't about all kinds of functions, as far as I remember. It doesn't say: all kinds of functions. It says something has been said about a possible ministership. I have seen that the same text as Mr Rutte said this afternoon is also included in the report. It says I would have said something about the presidency. If I have said that, I can never have said that as a serious comment, because I know that we are not even talking about it at all. Besides, I think it is far too important. It's a very important position. It's not like you're putting someone away or putting them apart, so it couldn't have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u964	That is indeed a substantive reason why that was inappropriate, but there is also another reason why it was inappropriate, namely because it concerns a Member of Parliament with a large mandate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u965	That is the way it is: a very large mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u966	...who has a role of his own and who takes it very seriously. Also to you the question whether looking at your own role, looking at what has come along, that position of Omtzigt, looking at those notes, is not extremely inappropriate to have talked about a Member of Parliament in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u967	What I find difficult is that, in my memory, it was not so much about Mr Omtzigt at all. But that it has been written down, and certainly that it then ended up in the note as "function elsewhere," I really do hate it. Mr Omtzigt really deserves our sincere apologies for that. By the way, we also wrote that in the letter. Of course, that doesn't suit us at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u968	Finally, Madam President. I am surprised at the idea of their role by the scouts themselves. Actually, it's very simple. A coalition must add to a majority; there must be sufficient similarities and the differences should not be too great. That's actually the point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u969	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u970	When I see in what detail there has been talk of everything, including parties and also individuals, I am only very surprised at this view of the role. And there has also been a very serious damage to the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u971	I agree that major damage has been done to the process. However, I would like to argue that this has been discussed in such detail, because that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u972	I'd like to ask a more in-depth question in addition to Mr Segers' initial question. About the position of the member Omtzigt is stated in the letter of 26 March by the current explorers, Koolmees and Van Ark: our predecessors have indicated that this passage is not a representation. Then it says: according to our predecessors, the passage is based on an inventory from several angles, including reports in the media. I assume they heard that when you were transferred, because they both refer to you. The letter of 29 March, which you write together, states that neither are the media indirectly responsible for the words "function elsewhere"; we are happy to take away this previously unintentional suggestion. But I heard you earlier on the evening regarding Mr. Omtzigt's function and the stability of the CDA refer to the media. What exactly is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u973	That is not about Mr Omtzigt's position. We only wanted to correct in our letter... by the letter that Mrs Van Ark and Mr... er...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u974	Kool-Tit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u975	... Koolmeen............................................................................................................................ So we wanted to correct that in our letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u976	Thank you. I see Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u977	I have a brief question about this. Indeed, we read in the letter from Mrs Van Ark and Mr Koolmees: according to our predecessors, this inventory was based on several perspectives, including media reports. I understand from this that these scouts have said that to the new scouts. But they haven't had any contact with the officials at all; they had no idea how that got on that magazine. So what was this based on? That's what I'm wondering. What exactly did you say to Mrs. Van Ark and Mr. Koolmees? And what do you base that on? Because you didn't even ask the officials: why did you actually write that down, "position changed, position elsewhere"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u978	Now I need to get the exact text. You read it to me, but I don't have it here myself, and I find it difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u979	Which text exactly are you looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u980	Let me get the exact lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u981	I can read it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u982	I might be able to do it without it. What we did on Monday was take away from the fact that what was mentioned in the Koolmees and Van Ark letters on Friday actually laid the responsibility more or less to the press. That was not the case. We didn't want that at all. In the end, of course, it's just our responsibility that it's in the note, because that's how it works. And that's what we stand for 100%. We're not gonna pass that on to the press. In the letter from Koolmees and Van Ark it seemed that we were working on that, but that was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u983	I get that. Everyone fell over that, like, "Oh, the media did it now," so you take it back. Maybe we'll get it a little sharper, if we just get an answer to this question: what exactly did these two scouts say to the new scouts? 'Cause what they wrote down apparently wasn't quite as it was discussed. What exactly did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u984	Yeah, what we said exactly... We had a brief conversation with them and on that basis they wrote the letter. And when the letter was finished, we agreed to it. And then it turned out that there could be misunderstandings about whether we blamed the press or not. Well, we thought we should get rid of that misunderstanding, because the press isn't guilty of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u985	Okay, so exactly what's in this huge mess, and those sensitivities, and that's really freaked out by what's been out there, "function reverse: position elsewhere," that would of course never have liked, "we're really freaked out about that"... And in that process, there's been a handover. And then you say, yes, we don't remember what we said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u986	No, but we agreed with what they had written down. Only what we did not realize was that, when that letter went out, it immediately became like we had now blamed the press for this case. And that was not the case. We were gonna take that away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u987	No, I get that, because everybody fell for that, so you're gonna say, no, no, that's not what we meant; it's not the media's fault. But I have a simple question here. It's already a huge riot; the whole country's in turmoil. The Chamber is taking it high. New scouts have been identified. There's been a conversation so far, isn't there? It's between the old scouts and the new scouts. I'm asking, what did you say? "Yes, we don't know."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u988	No, but I think the concept of that letter was already there, and then we had a brief work interview about that letter, and then that letter went out. So that letter was carefully drafted, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u989	That's not an answer to the question, is it? I'm asking, what was said? You know what you said, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u990	We agreed to send that letter. And without changing that content, and which we later say: it is unclear on that point - on that one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u991	I find this very bizarre. I can't imagine that the former scouts have been playing stupidly there, just looking at a letter and sort of nodded: yes, take it off. It was said earlier in this debate that we did not ask the officials concerned 'how could that have been the note, because we are very shocked by it'. We have to believe that that scares the hell out of you. Well, okay, then ask those civil servants... "No, we didn't; we didn't think of that." Then there will be a transfer. Then there's a letter from the new scouts. They write, "according to our predecessors..." We have also seen them in the media: "we have understood that of them." Am I supposed to understand that you're not saying anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u992	No, that's what we told them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u993	Oh, well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u994	Yeah, of course we told them. They wrote that letter based on what we discussed with them, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u995	All right, all right. But then there's the next question. You did tell them, didn't you? But you didn't ask those officials: this phrase, where did it come from? You didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u996	We couldn't ask that anymore. The problem was we weren't a scout anymore. And the officials were therefore assigned to the scouts who were present at the time, and not to us anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u997	Yeah, exactly. So between the moment that photo came out and the retreat as scouts, there was no contact with the officials, I understand. Then, after that, it was: they can't do that anymore, because they don't work for us anymore. Then there's a transfer, and then these two ladies are going to speculate on what it would be based on. Not asked by the officials, but they say to the new scouts: well, that is based on an inventory of multiple angles. That's what we have to believe here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u998	Yeah, that's all we can think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u999	I had another question. And all the appreciation for the scouts who have come here, and at this time also the Chamber. I will try to keep my question short. It's about this. Mrs Jorritsma refers to all kinds of media reports that have been there, which have been important and on the basis of which she made her comment about, for example, the Chair of the House of Representatives. Which media messages was she talking about exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1000	Yes. Well, I read all the papers every day, and the papers were certainly still full of the CDA at that time. And that was the case all weekend, and actually from the day of the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1001	Since Mrs Jorritsma was talking about that, I did check it out. In itself it was the same in my memory, but if something in your memory is there or not, you will of course check it out. In fact, all the statements, such as those concerning the whispering campaign, as far as I can tell, have been published in the way she formulated it in all the articles, after the discussion with Mr Rutte, where the notes are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1002	No, that's not the case. If I use the word "whispering campaign..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1003	Mr Klaver has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1004	The article on the whisper campaign was published only a day later. The column of De Telegraaf to which reference was made is, in my opinion, the most important source. I haven't been able to read a lot of other things about it. It didn't come online until 4:48 that Monday afternoon. So here's what I'm asking. If you say "it was widely known and it was really an image in the media"... I also checked, and the image in the media didn't actually come into being until Monday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1005	I am sure that when we spoke in the morning, also with Mr Rutte, it was not at the time that it was completely silent about the instability of the CDA. That's not true. That's really not true. So I'm sure it does... That's how we read it, so yeah. I did not mention the column in De Telegraaf at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1006	I went to see what important sources are. I like to talk about the stability of the CDA, which Mr Hoekstra is right next to. I've been looking at articles that dealt with that. I checked, and I said, "I can't find them." Maybe I'm not very good at looking. You say they were there. If you insist on this, I would like to hear what you have read and what led to it. The media review that I have seen and which we have received from the new scouts' letter also comes from sources that I can only trace back to the Monday evening around 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1007	In the end, we are talking about what this explanation was for in the documents for the preparation for our Thursday conversation. At that time, all these media reports were well known. The first conversation we had with Mr Hoekstra was not about that at all. If all those pieces had already appeared, it might have turned out to be a completely different conversation. I'm not sure. After that, of course, we started to think and we also talked. Eventually we come to the conclusion: boys, we just need to take more time for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1008	I recognize that "more time." That's what it's been about in my conversation. I also offered the room for that, but of course it is not entirely true. I am not talking about the discussion note, but about Mrs Jorritsma's comment on the Presidency of the House of Representatives, linked to Pieter Omtzigt. She says: "such a remark... It was about the stability of the CDA and the position of Pieter Omtzitzit." That was based on the media footage. I say, I don't know which media footage that was on that Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1009	The stability of the CDA was, of course, mainly based on the results of the elections and the reports which naturally came out on them. The election results were, of course, rather intense and were also heavily discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1010	I think it's right. We too have lost. You asked us the same question. I understand that an election result gives rise to that, but your entire defense, your speech tonight, was built around media footage and not so much about the fact that it was just about the loss of the CDA. So I don't get it that well. If you say the media said it was an unstable mess... I do not like that, because you refer to post-Monday articles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1011	We are constantly talking about the explanation of the part that broke the exploration. Of course, there are also the elements of everything that was published in the press afterwards. What we first talked about was the discussion with Mr Rutte, which also covered the CDA. The fact that we talked about the CDA there seems to me very logical, even if only because Mr Rutte wanted the CDA to be part of the cabinet. The fact that there were concerns about the stability of the CDA has indeed been addressed. This question of stability was, of course, mainly caused by the fact that the CDA had lost a lot at the time. And there was, because I read that back, too, that it is interesting to know how the preferred votes went out. That was still a complete unknown back then. And there was quite a bit of resurrection about that, if I may call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1012	Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1013	One final remark, indeed. Once again, thank you for all the answers, but my questions were also earlier this evening about the remark you made about Pieter Omtzigt in relation to the chair of the House of Representatives and not so much about the note that has been leaked. I note that earlier this evening you defended why it was logical to speak about it because of the media image there was. You quoted media and articles that were only after that Monday. That is what I conclude from this interruption debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1014	Too bad you'll conclude from that. The joke is that I could never really have spoken seriously about the Presidency of Mr Omtzigt's Chamber, for the simple reason that I know exactly how that process works. So that's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1015	The eagerness with which Mr Klaver wanted to talk about the stability of the CDA suggests that we must quickly plan a debate on the stability of GroenLinks. In any case, I would be delighted to do so. I've learned a little bit about not rubbing in a stain, but I'm gonna do it anyway. I'm a little confused. I want to know exactly what gave rise at what time, precisely because this is about those media messages. What Mr Klaver just mentioned is in line with my previous interruption and also with my own memory. 'Cause how did it go in my memory, in my eyes? Of course, there was a lot of press about the very disappointing outcome of the CDA, as I myself have called it. On that Friday, after the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the CDA resigned. This has led to media reports on Saturdays and perhaps something on Sundays. On Monday it wasn't or hardly anymore in my memory. At that time it was not or hardly about the stability in the CDA. There may have been messages like "what the hell did Hoekstra do wrong" or "what the hell Hoekstra did wrong." But that was relatively little, especially if you compare it to Friday and what starts from Tuesday. If that is the case now, then there can be no reason to have great concern about it in the discussions with Mr Rutte on Monday and not with me either, because I have not been questioned about it. Does Mrs. Jorritsma agree with me? Then I have a question about the rest of the week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1016	We started the conversations at half past nine on Monday morning. Honestly, I barely had time for Monday's papers. I got in the car at 6:00 in the morning to drive to The Hague to prepare us for the conversations. Then you don't think I have a current picture of the newspapers of that day, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1017	You read them all, you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1018	Yeah, I'll read them all when I have time. But that day was filled for us with eight conversations, all of which had to be prepared. I prepared it in the car and here in the Stadhouders Room. I did just mention the whispering campaign, but it was probably later if you say so. But, of course, the next few days we talked about how we would proceed in the conversation that had to be held with the CDA. That didn't calm down for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1019	I am not trying to catch Mrs Jorritsma in an inconsistency here and make that a point. I'm trying to clarify what led to what type of intervention and what happened in the process. That is very important to me, and I suspect it will also be for the rest of the Chamber. Mrs Jorritsma says: I usually read all those newspapers, but I didn't read them that Monday morning. Then the newspapers of that Monday morning could not have been the reason to have a large-scale discussion about this. That unrest, which was not found in my memory in the Monday morning newspapers, did not get through to Mrs Jorritsma and therefore could not have got through to the conversation. So then it must have been the misery in the newspapers of Monday night or Tuesday. Is that what Mrs. Jorritsma says? You can, but I'd like to know what happened. So it wasn't on Monday. We had a faltering effect on Friday and Saturday of the president's resignation. Then it starts screwing around on Monday nights, and Tuesdays it starts all over again. So I can understand that the discussion of the scouts and the officials may have turned towards Thursday. But it couldn't have colored the Monday, and that's important. Does Mrs. Jorritsma agree with me, or does she disagree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1020	I agree with you in part. It wasn't like it was quiet around the CDA. Two. When I read the pieces, I can see that we talked about that at the time. Moreover, this happened in the context of the stability of the CDA after a great loss; I will say it again. Apparently we also discussed the preferred votes, at least that is what I read in the Minutes. That was out of my mind, but I can... you know, I've talked to a lot more people about that; that's what I find difficult. Of course, that's beyond my own husband and my friends and I don't know who happens, but you talk about these kinds of topics with a lot of people anyway. And I didn't have this part in my head at all, because we thought it was much more important to talk about stability in the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1021	Again, I understand. I hope that Mr Baudet will soon be able to suppress the challenge to invite all those people. And again, I'm not saying this because I want to roll Mrs Jorritsma into something, but just to understand it: from Monday evening, the coverage made it that way. And that has led to it being about the stability of the CDA. That was mainly pregnant on Wednesdays and Thursdays, the conversation that was apparently held, not on Mondays. That's how I conclude it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1022	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1023	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1024	First Mrs. Marijnissen, then Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1025	I don't think I've often seen people spin around all kinds of things for so long, hours and hours, to knit anything that can't be straightened. Now it's about the media. It is clear that both the column in De Telegraaf and the article in HP/De Tijd only appeared on Monday after that conversation. But what we do know by now is that Mark Rutte said on that Monday morning: you have to do something with Omtzigt. That is what happened Monday morning, and that is, of course, the direct reason for that top official to make a note of it. Why doesn't Mrs. Jorritsma just admit it? Why not stop playing these games now, why not stop hiding behind media messages now? You're not getting out of there. Why don't you just admit, "Monday morning, Mark Rutte, you have to do something with Omtzigt"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1026	I think that "you have to do something with Omtzigt" was a different phrase. Two. I couldn't remember that, because if I could have remembered that, we would of course have written it down. It's not like we were trying to keep ourselves secret. Besides, why should we? Why would we want to keep ourselves secret if we had had it in our memory? We wrote a letter. We spent two hours trying to formulate that with the two of us, because we had our own notes. By the way, we didn't get support from anyone; we had to do that all by ourselves. Yeah, that's how it works, isn't it, when you're done with something? That's okay; we did it with love. But if there was any reminder that it had been about it, we would have recorded it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1027	The follow-up question is about the letter that indeed came out after it from the new explorers. That has been said: there was no contact at first, and then there was, but that was just a sort of factual check. If you knew that there were good officials here who made extensive records, as we have seen, why didn't you advise the new scouts to take a look at those minutes, or at least request them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1028	As far as I know, they didn't get access to those minutes. Well, that makes sense. If you read a letter, they also said we're going to do the whole process again. That also means that they had no knowledge and had no knowledge. That was then. It is only now that the Chamber has asked for it that everyone has got them and that is a good thing; I am fine with it. But the new scouts initially did not get an insight into the minutes made during the discussions we held.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1029	I would like to know what Mrs Jorritsma thinks of this culture. Apparently there is a culture in which you can talk about people and that is called "a margin of conversation." If you hear something like that, I'd think this is super explosive. Then you put your fist on the table and you say, "Sorry, Mr. Rutte, but you can't do this." That's not "and margin." Apparently jokes are being made about who will be the new President of the House of Representatives. That would be a joke. Apparently it has become so normal that the incumbent power in this way talks about persons that there are no more memories of them either. It's just completely forgotten. What does it say that this can happen according to Mrs. Jorritsma about that governance culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1030	What I would like to say immediately is that you are thinking again about the position of scouts, even if they have quit. Of course, the Chamber decides what a scout can do and what can't. If he's not a scout anymore, he's not a scout either. That is fine, but perhaps we should think about the possibility of him taking his own minutes, for example. You'll have to think about that. Perhaps I have a different view of this, but perhaps I will get a little closer to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1031	I find this unheard of. Honestly! We are dealing here with scouts who work on behalf of the Chamber and those scouts have greatly exceeded their bounds. That's what happened here. And now the ball bounces back by saying "the Chamber should put its affairs in order better," can't be. Mrs. Jorritsma, you have exceeded your bounds, and you must charge yourself with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1032	I just don't agree with that. We didn't go overboard at all. We only had a conversation to find out how we could get back in touch with the CDA. The fact that something has been said about Mr Omtzigt does not seem to me to be entirely illogical, but it certainly was not about functions for Mr Omtzigt. That is not what we have done on our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1033	Mrs Simons and then Mr Van der Staaij. Mrs. Van der Plas, too? Yeah, I'll write them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1034	I do hear some discrepancies between what Mrs Ollongren previously shared with the Chamber and what Mrs Jorritsma shares. This is mainly due to the question of whether or not there has been a transfer between the scouts. I hear Mrs Ollongren say that there has not been, but I heard you say earlier: there has been contact. I also hear you say that there has been no transfer. To make it clear to all of us: if I understand Mrs Jorritsma correctly, then... By the way, the scouts were not sent away by the Chamber. You've decided that you couldn't go on. After you decided not to be able to continue, at any time between then and today there was a transfer of substance to the new scouts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1035	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1036	No. Between the time you decided you couldn't continue as scouts, and today, has there been any other contact between you and the new scouts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1037	There has been a brief discussion on the letter that the new scouts wanted to send to the Chamber. They checked with us for that. And further, there was contact this morning with... What did we talk about this morning? I've completely lost it. Oh, yeah! Of course there was this morning... I'm sorry, but I'm just tired.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1038	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1039	Yeah, but I'm not 40 anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1040	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1041	I woke up at 8:00 this morning. I had half a sleepless night and fell asleep at 7:00. I put my phone on mute last night, so I didn't hear anybody. I woke up at 8:00 this morning. By the way, that conversation took place a little later than eight hours and then they did indeed tell us what was in the notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1042	You got a call this morning at 8:00, just after 8:00, around that time. However, before that time by someone who did have the information that was not transferred, there was contact with Mr Rutte, to let him know "hello, with via-via, I have news for you."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1043	That's what I heard this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1044	That's the first time you've heard that around here today, isn't it? You can't explain that at all, do you think that's very strange?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1045	I wasn't involved in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1046	Mr Van der Staaij and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1047	First of all, I would also like to thank the former scouts who are prepared to answer such extensive questions from the Chamber. The key question for me was: why does the letter 'no group chairmen have spoken to us about Mr Omtzigt', which turns out to be different in the end? And how does Mrs Jorritsma look at that herself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1048	Of course, I've read all kinds of theories about that, but I think it's really lame. It's really not House of Cards. It's just silly that we couldn't remember that. Of course you should have. As far as that is concerned, when the Minutes came... It's just that that's what we've been talking about. If I had remembered that, we would have written it down immediately. Of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1049	Mrs Jorritsma also said: why should we keep it secret? Well, the answer might be to cover that you've actually talked about things you realize "we shouldn't have talked about."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1050	No, I really have to contradict you. I really wouldn't want to do that. Besides, that always comes out! I mean, now it's out. So if you'd lied about it and left it out on purpose, it'd come true. So I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1051	You could say that if you stepped down right away, you wouldn't have to answer for it and that it's normal that there would be no explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1052	That is not how we understood our task. I immediately said that I was willing to answer for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1053	We're already after 12:00. I notice that the mood here and there gets a little jolly from time to time. I can tell you that I do not feel any more jolly than I did this afternoon. There are a lot of answers and a lot of questions have been asked, but I still have the feeling that we are going a little bit away from what this has actually started. What it started out was that it was first denied that there was any mention of Omtzigt, that it was said that none of the group chairmen spoke about it. It is then known that this is the case. Whether or not through an inactive memory, that remains. We started a debate here this afternoon in which it was simply said 'Mr Rutte is simply lying here'. I asked Mrs Kaag whether she could take Mr Rutte at his word. In the meantime, I feel it a little down and I am actually asking the President, too, if we can get back to the core very quickly, and that is why we started here this afternoon. Because we can keep talking about these and these until 5:00, but I just want to get through and back to the core and back to what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1054	I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1055	If we can do that quickly and get back to serious business again, not that this is not serious, but just back to the core. Where did we start and now move on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1056	Thank you. Two scouts have also been asked to answer a number of questions here. Actually, I'd like to make the proposal to suspend for a while. Then we will continue with Mr Koolmees and Mrs Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1057	I would like to welcome Mr Koolmees and Mrs Van Ark. I give the floor to Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1058	Good evening, Madam President. Good evening to all of you. Thanks for the invitation. I'd like to say a few things. I followed the debate tonight and made some notes. I'd like to say a few things about it. Mr Segers was somewhat surprised at the confidentiality of this process. I would like to explain a few things. First of all, the scout works for the House of Representatives. This means that there is talk in confidence. If it is right, the ex-conversers have also indicated in the conversation with you as a list leader that there would be a confidential conversation and that if any parts of the conversation were to come out, it would be accepted and submitted to you in advance. That means it's a confidential process. That should be the case, because the scouts must indicate who they want to work with, on what subjects, and also on what subjects they may be prepared to present positions for coalition formation. Since 2006, experience has been gained in this process. That means they're separate processes every time. In other words, if there is a final phase in the exploration process, the books will be closed and the new explorers or the new reformers will not get an insight into what happened to them. I experienced this myself in 2010, when I participated in the coalition-Purple-plus in the information with VVD, D66, Party of Labour and GroenLinks. It was broken down after two weeks. After that there was formed with VVD, CDA and PVV. Then the pieces were frozen. The new negotiators, the new informants, have no insight into those pieces. I experienced the same in 2017, when GroenLinks was first spoken to and later with the Christian Union. It is important for your Chamber to continue to maintain this confidentiality, because parties must be able to open up the discussions on the issues that may be negotiated or on which action can be taken, and on which subjects can be compromised. That's what I wanted to say in advance, because we made that deal with you. When we recommended, we wrote in the letter of Friday 26 March: we have no insight into these documents and we do not get that either. It was only yesterday that you, all 17 designated list-holders, authorised these documents to be made public in the course of the work. It was only from that moment that we gained insight into the notes and documents. We wrote that in the letter to your Chamber yesterday. In fact, we have waited to see the documents until the letter had arrived at your Chamber. That is what we thought was pure, so that we would not be in a position to use information from the first round of talks in recent days. I just wanted to highlight that clearly. This also means that we were not confronted with the notes and reports from the first round until about 10:15 p.m., 10:30 p.m. last night. At that time, we saw that Mr Rutte's discussion report stated that there had indeed been talk of Mr Omtzigt. Then we thought: this is not in line with the letter sent by the former scouts last Monday. We thought it appropriate to inform the ex-explorers about this, because they had to debate it with you today. We also wanted to check whether they recognized themselves in the notes made by the official support; I will come back to that in a moment. Then, together with Mrs Van Ark, I contacted Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma at about a quarter to eleven last night. Mrs. Jorritsma didn't answer. Mrs. Ollongren answered and then we told her this. We then explained this to the ex-explorers at 8 a.m. this morning; it was 8 a.m. because Mrs Jorritsma still had to wake up. Then I also sent you all, the seventeen listers, a text message between 8:45 and 8:30 this morning that you could get insight into the documents of the first round talks in the Stadhouderskamer, both in the notes and in the interview reports. Some of you have taken advantage of this. We also wrote that in the letter sent to your room. Why am I saying this so extensively? To show that we have to do this very carefully, but also in confidence. Because if you don't separate that neatly, I'll say, if you let processes get mixed up, you'll get an insight into conversations from the first round, about which a lot of fuss had arisen from photographing that note from Mrs. Ollongren outside. Mr Baudet's question was: who have you been in contact with? Last night at about a quarter to eleven with Mrs Ollongren and this morning at 8 a.m. with Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma. The only person I talked to was my partner this morning at 7:15 when I woke up. That was supposed to be a secret, yeah. Finally, I heard Mrs Ouwehand ask about the letter we sent on 26 March. Indeed, there have been a number of uncertainties arising from that letter, and I am sorry about that. What was it about? We were received by the President at half past four on Thursday afternoon in the Stadhouderskamer and then we were asked to take on the role of scout. That's what we did. Then we also spoke to the officials and we were told that you do not get an insight into the documents that are here, because they are part of the confidential process. Then we walked out and we were confronted with the press asking: what exactly happened there? We found that uncomfortable, too. So, Friday afternoon after the Council of Ministers, between one and two o'clock, with Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma, we had a Zoommeeting to ask: can you explain what happened, without revealing all kinds of confidentiality? At that time we were explained that we also wrote in that letter "that the passages contained in photographed minutes, which included "left does not hold each other" and "position Omtzigt," were based on "I'm going to quote "an inventory from several angles, including media reports." That is what the debate has just been about. I've seen that, too. That was for example the message from De Telegraaf of 24 March by Inge Lengton about the CDA's concern about Omtzigt, but also that from De Telegraaf of 22 March, the column by Wouter de Winther, about internal strubblings at the CDA and that from HP/De Tijd about the whisper campaign of 23 March. By the way, there is also a piece of 17 March that refers to that. When we walk out, we may have formulated carelessly and said 'including statements in the media', which was interpreted by the media as 'they blame the media'. That wasn't supposed to happen. Maybe we were careless that afternoon. We deliberately put it this way. There were several angles, including reports in the media. This is about, for example, 'left holding each other'. On March 24th, there was a piece by Philip de Witt Wijnen in NRC in which it said "left let go of each other," based on the conversations that had been made and the expressions that had been done outside, in front of the Stadhouderskamer. Once again, I am a little elaborate because I think I should formulate carefully, explain carefully what we have found and why we have communicated as much as we have communicated. We have tried in all the letters we have sent to be careful and each time to emphasize the confidentiality in the process. Once again, only yesterday after the second arrangement of work, when all 17 listers gave permission to publish their own notes, their own interview reports, did we have an insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1059	Good. Are these all your points?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1060	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1061	That goes for Mrs. Van Ark, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1062	Can I ask you another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1063	Yes, of course. There is a question from Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1064	Thank you, Madam President. Do I understand correctly from Mr Koolmees' report that only he and his fellow scout and Mrs Ollongren were aware of this new fact late at night, plus his partner at 7.15 in the morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1065	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1066	Is Mark Rutte his partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1067	No. It's gonna be a really weird conversation like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1068	So we're dealing with a leak. So we are dealing with an official leak or a lie from one of the three of you, that is whether Mrs Ollongren or Mrs Van Ark or you, Mr Koolmees, are lying about this. We need to find out now. We need to find out. Because if it is true that there is an official leak, then we are dealing with a political system in which the Prime Minister, after ten years, has his own boyfriends in all the capillaries of the administrative system, who match him, who call him. Not only is that unacceptable for democratic reasons, but he also received that call not as group chairman, but as Prime Minister. And then it's wobble. Then we just want to make his phone records public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1069	I have also asked the officials of the administration for this. They also had no contact with Mr Rutte. I have asked this explicitly in connection with the debate and this afternoon's question by Mr Baudet. I can tell you what I did myself. You can either believe that or you can't. If you don't believe it, you should say the same thing. I am transparent about what I have done and I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1070	Yes. First, the chair must be cleaned for a moment, and then Mrs Van Ark will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1071	Thank you, Mr President. In addition to what Mr Koolmees said, I would like to say the following. Also for me, since I was asked to be a scout on 25 March, I have had no further contact with the VVD group. Only in the context of the swearing-in, logistics around the votes, have I had that. I haven't been in touch with Mr. Rutte. I would like to add the following. For me, as for Mr Koolmees, one is seventeen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1072	Thank you, also for the willingness to explain the letter here. There is a short question from Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1073	What's "one is seventeen"? Sorry, I didn't understand. It's a nice expression, but what does it mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1074	If I share something with one group chairman, then with all the group chairmen, like, for example, the text sent by Mr Koolmees, in which it was announced: we will make the documents available for inspection. It goes to all the group chairmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1075	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1076	Okay. But then we're dealing with a mystery. Because the officials say 'no' to your apparently explicit question as to whether this happened. You state here in box K that it didn't happen. I think that as a Chamber we are at a crucial point of our own credibility. We can only let this happen now. We can say, "Well, nobody says anything, so okay, then don't, then we don't get to know." This is something that is really super fundamental from a constitutional point of view. The Prime Minister, who happens to be also the leader of the political group and leader of the largest party, gets all kinds of insider knowledge and information first in a formation process or a reconnaissance process through, through, sub rosa, through a phone call or whatever. He won't say how. And the Chamber doesn't find out how that went from the scout's office, an office that we've appointed, that we pay and that we're in charge of. The Chamber must now support me in suspending this debate again. I don't care how long we go on. We need to find out everything communication from the office has been. Or we should demand that Mark Rutte make this public on penalty of disqualification from participating in the new formation. If the Chamber does not support me in this now, I do not think that we are in any way democratically serious anymore. So I would very much like to hear from all the colleagues here whether they agree with me that this is unacceptable, and how we are going to take next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1077	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1078	I think there are two possibilities. Or we could just suspend the case and start talking to all the people who worked at the scouts' office until we figure out what happened to that information. Or we say to Mark Rutte, "Listen, if you really don't want to tell us, we can't have faith in you as a man who has to do something in that information." It's one of two. But we need to figure this out, and we need to figure this out. If we don't, we're gonna let this unbelievable walk all over us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1079	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1080	And what is this debate about? It is also about the role of Pieter Omtzigt in our democratic system. He's someone who's been constantly attacking the Ruttedoctrine. And during this debate, we are just seeing another shocking example of this doctrine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1081	You don't have to yell.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1082	Are we just gonna accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1083	You have made your point and if you wish to do so, you can simply table a motion, because we have arrived at the second term of office. Then put it to the Chamber. I would like to thank Mr Koolmees and Mrs Van Ark. A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1084	What I just said is a point of order and I would like to hear all my colleagues on the subject. I think it's very valuable that the current scouts have come here. What they told us is shocking. The leader of the largest party wants to get away with something that is a violation of state law...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1085	Mr. Baudet, Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1086	We should not accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1087	That's what you said. Everyone heard you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1088	This is a point of order!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1089	Please don't yell. You can simply table a motion in the second term and refer it to the Chamber. You don't have to yell through it all the time. That's very disturbing. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1090	I don't think it was a point of order, but something that calls for a ruling from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1091	Yeah, I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1092	I support you in that. But if you don't want to, I'll just remember it. I do have a short question. This is the answer you gave. It has already been discussed here whether you can continue as scouts or not. You still are. What I do think is relevant is that we should be able to have confidence that what you share with one shares with all seventeen. That trust has been violated. Now a little more confidence has been violated and my question to you as explorers is actually what you are going to do to clarify this point. That is the question I would like answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1093	I would also like to make a point of order, namely that the two scouts have actually been asked to explain themselves. They're not ministers. Either they get the order to move on, or they have to stop. That is ultimately up to the Chamber. The questions that are being asked must really be questions for an explanation. I now give the floor to Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1094	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the question, too. I understand Mr Klaver's question very well. What we can do is tell what we did and what we checked. It doesn't show how that came out. That's all I can do. One more thing. I have also listened very carefully to the debate today. A number of groups have indicated that this process has been disrupted. The question has also been asked: should we continue with two explorers of VVD- and D66-house? I understand that very well, especially given the situation we are now in. If you decide in the Chamber that it has to be different, I'm fine with that. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1095	Yeah, and that's also up to the Chamber. It has been specifically said: a few questions. I see that everyone is now taking this opportunity to ask all kinds of questions. I would like to appeal to all of you: just a brief explanation and then one question if there is really no other way. The same goes for you, Mrs Simons. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1096	I have written along for a moment and that has indeed given rise to a short question. A letter has come from the new scouts. It said that "based on multiple perspectives, including the media" was the reason we encountered the phrase "function elsewhere." However, there has been no transfer between the old scouts and the new scouts, so the new scouts didn't have that information. Based on what information was your first letter drawn up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1097	Thursday 25 March we were received by the President in the Stadhouderskamer at 4.30 p.m. Then we accepted the order and then we briefly spoke with the official support. We were told that we were not given the notes and the documents from the first round because that phase had been completed. At the same time, the journalists outside that afternoon had a lot of questions about what was in that note. That is what we understood, and that is why we spoke to the ex-explorers from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. that Friday, 26 March, and asked them to tell them without violating confidentiality: what exactly happened and what can we actually say to the Chamber? We also submitted that we had heard from various quarters that we did not want to speak with us before there had been a debate with the ex-explorers. Mrs Ploumen, for example, sent us a letter and you sent us a letter containing it. We also spoke to Mrs Jorritsma and Mrs Ollongren and asked: are you prepared to explain this in the House of Representatives? They were willing to do that. They had already indicated this in the direction of Mrs Arib. That is what we wrote in this letter of 26 March. This was of course about the note that was photographed, which contained some salient things, such as "left parties release each other," and "position Omtzigt." Sorry, Mr. Chairman, it's still going on. But that's what it said. That's what we've been asking about. This is what the wording is based on: "This passage" -- this passage refers back to "position Omtzigt, function elsewhere" -- "according to our predecessors, is equipped with an inventory from several angles, including media reports." I just told you what messages they were. That was an explanation of what was there, because there were a lot of questions about that. After that, the ex-explorers said: we want to give an explanation in the House of Representatives. And that's what happened today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1098	I actually wanted to say to Mr Baudet that I think we should wait and see if Mr Rutte is going to answer the question in what way and through whom he received this information. I think that's important. Secondly, I would like to ask whether, after the discussion with the current scouts, there can be a five-minute suspension before the start with Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1099	Everyone gets a second term. I would like to thank Mr Koolmees and Mrs Van Ark. I shall suspend the sitting until 1:00 a.m. Oh, no, I see Mr Hoekstra has another question. Do you have a question for the scouts? No, that way the scouts can get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1100	For my understanding, would you like to continue with the second term in five minutes? 'Cause then I'd like a little longer suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1101	That's fine. How long do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1102	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1103	No, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1104	Mr. Wilders needs eight minutes. I need double.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1105	Then I'm gonna suspend the meeting for 15 minutes. I would like to thank Mrs Van Ark and Mr Koolmees. No, Mr. Baudet, I haven't suspended the meeting yet, and it's unusual for MPs to have a conversation with those in box K. Do you have a nice proposition, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1106	No, I don't have the qualities that Mr Baudet has to bring in a lot of people. I hear a number of people here saying, "Let's suspend until 1:30." I hear a number of people say that. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1107	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1108	I'm reopening the meeting to suspend again. I see Mrs. Jorritsma and Mrs. Ollongren. I would like to thank you very much for being here and being willing to explain the work that has been done. It was a long debate. You were here yesterday, too. I wish you all the best of luck. Thank you for the work you've done. Thank you. Then I want to suspend again, because there are groups that need a little more time to discuss. I think it's okay to suspend until 1:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1109	Just a little misunderstanding. We can still get started. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1110	Madam President. We've been fooled for a long time. We've been lied to. We've been lied to by the scout and Mr. Rutte. The scouts tried to tell us that Mr Rutte's remarks were irrelevant, that Ollongren and Jorritsma and Rutte didn't happen to remember so much. Madam President. They lied in a letter to the Chamber that they had not mentioned Mr Omtzigt. Mr Rutte lied live on television at the NOS when he said he had not spoken about Mr Omtzigt. Mr Rutte refused to make public his via-via-source "the person who informed him earlier than the other group chairmen that he had spoken to the scouts about Mr Omtzigt. Madam President. What's the constant here? The constants are lies and deceit. I say to you: we must not let Mr Rutte get away with it. I saw a poll today, I think from Hart van Nederland. This representative poll showed that 62% of the Dutch also believe that Rutte should resign. That's right. After ten years of Rutte, this was just too much of a lie. In the crisis in which we are sitting, the Netherlands cannot afford to be Prime Minister who has lost his authority and is distrusted from all sides. That is why I appeal again to Mr Rutte. Put aside your self-interest. Put your ego aside. Let the national interest prevail. Step up and don't come back as Prime Minister. I also appeal to the colleagues here in the Lower House, Madam President. Don't let Mr. Rutte get away with his umpteenth lie. Choose the integrity of our colleague Omtzigt and not a lying Prime Minister. Help restore confidence. Help the Netherlands and support my motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1111	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1112	Madam President. I listened very carefully during this debate and I also reflected. I'd like to share these reflections with you. We are here, that's how we all feel, in this House of Representatives not for ourselves, but for the Netherlands, for the Dutch. The last few days, and especially today, it's been about ourselves. I myself have made a major, too great contribution to this in several ways. That is bad for our mutual trust and our cooperation. This is also bad for the image of politics and for those involved. I also expressed the hope today that, with this debate, I hope that we will still be able to take this first step in restoring confidence. As far as I am concerned, I feel a great responsibility. I would therefore like to apologize here and now in this Chamber to everyone who has had what happened in the past week, here in the Chamber and in the country. But also in particular I apologize to Pieter Ommzigt. It was said for a week that there was no mention of him. Turns out it's different now. I did talk about him. That's intense for him. I am deeply sorry about that. I also want to apologize for the message about this morning's call. This absolutely shouldn't have happened. This feeds the impression that access to power, to information, is not evenly distributed. This too is detrimental to the prestige of politics and to our cooperation here in the House of Representatives. It also does not fit in a healthy balance of power and counterpower. That subject was rightly a common thread in this debate today. Madam President. With a new cabinet we have to work for the Netherlands. But before that new cabinet gets here, there's a lot of work to be done, for all of us. I think it is a good proposal from colleagues in the Chamber, Kaag, Hoekstra and others, on the appointment of an informant with a greater distance from politics. Where trust has been violated, Mr. President, I will work very hard to restore it, with you and with the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1113	A short question, Mr. Baudet, because we've been debating all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1114	I may have missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1115	You were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1116	Ah, thank you. Mr Rutte apologizes for the message about the call he received this morning at 7.30 p.m., because it gives the impression that access to power creates a different information position. Well, it doesn't just give the impression, that's the story. He just needs to tell us how that went, so we can close the leak in the system. This just can't be. I also find it remarkable when he says access to power. By which he undoubtedly means his outgoing Prime Minister. That means that he does admit that he received that call, or whatever it was, as Prime Minister. So it is wobble, then it is covered by the public information to which we must have access as a Chamber. Rutte should also make this public along that route. He just needs to tell us what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1117	Mr. Chairman. We all have power here. We are the representatives of the Dutch people here. With 150 MPs, we represent 17 million Dutch. One group is large and the other a little smaller, but we all have power here and we represent the Netherlands. It is incredibly important that each of us, and therefore I, as the foreman of the largest party, make sure that access to information and access to power is equally divided and that you do not have an apprioprate, incorrect message, that someone lets you know via something, cut off in time. It is a common thread in the debate: power and counterpower and control. I am very keen to report this, also in this context. I am not saying that as Prime Minister, as chairman of the Group of the European People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1118	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1119	I'm sorry, but now the wording suggests "via via" as if someone said to him at the tram stop: hey, you heard that, didn't you? But that's bullshit, of course. When that happens, the first thing you do is check it out yourself. But the source was strong enough for him not to feel the need to check things out, so he knew: okay, that's the way it is. So this was a serious source, this was someone who informed him seriously, at 7:30 in the morning. And it just doesn't matter. This cannot be defended in any way by state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1120	This is a repetition of the first time-limit, which I have also explained, to Mr Baudet's interruptions, which I informed our chairman last night that I would not make use of it, would have been provided for in the procedure to have access to documents. This was a message from this morning. It's a bit of a rerun this afternoon. It is not that I have changed my position on the subject of whether or not I want to look at documents as a result of that message.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1121	This has been discussed extensively all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1123	I give the floor to Mrs Kaag on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1124	Thank you, Madam President. Two weeks after the elections, we have to establish that this reconnaissance phase has stalled. My confidence in Mr Rutte has suffered a great dent today. The distance between him and me is greater. I regret that, but I also resent him, especially in view of the role that the electorate has given us both: the recovery of the Netherlands in the crisis and after the crisis and the restoration of confidence in the rule of law and in politics. The way the reconnaissance has been done so far, I don't approve of it. I feel responsible, too. I also reject Mr Rutte's reference to Mr Omtzigt. I have my doubts about the denial and I have my doubts about the defense today, also in view of the pattern that I mentioned earlier today. That is why today, together with my colleague, Mr Hoekstra, I have tabled a motion of censure, which is the most serious objection to the substance. I would also like to ask the informant to consider whether there are possibilities for restoring trust and, if so, which ones. And that's a long way. I would also like to say that it is not self-evident that the VVD leader Rutte will gain confidence and lead in the next phase of the exploration. Madam President, with your permission, I will read out the motion of censure very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the light of, inter alia, the case of increases in public confidence and the strengthening of the role of the Chamber as a counterpower to the Government, it is an urgent task;]] [[Whereas the remark "position Overtzigt, function elsewhere" in the preparation memo or notes of the former scouts is extremely damaging, as it suggests that a critical member of the Chamber should be removed;]] [[Notes that VVD leader Rutte, who also plays the role of Prime Minister of the mission, did not speak the truth in the media that he did not speak to the former scouts about the position of Mr Omtzigt;]] [[Whereas this process has caused serious damage to the restoration of public confidence in the government and to mutual confidence in the process of establishing a new government;]] [[rejects this practice;]] [[points out that in order to assess whether and, if so, what possibilities exist for the restoration of trust, an informant with the necessary distance from all parties should be expressly included in the mandate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kaag and Mr Hoekstra.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1125	I have a second motion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1126	Go ahead. Mr Azarkan, on the previous motion? Then I'll go to Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1127	Mr. Chairman. I just have to think... I understand you're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1128	No, I'm not in a hurry at all. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1129	Well, we're in until 4:30 anyway, so let's use the time usefully. Mr. Chairman. I'm really full of teeth. This is Mrs Kaag. Mrs Kaag said before the elections: this Prime Minister should be removed after two deadlines. Mrs Kaag now comes with very nice words. She speaks them better than I could. In fact, she says, "Fuck, Mark, fuck, but tomorrow we'll be back at the table" and she says, "I'm going to make sure that Mr Rutte is just Prime Minister for the next four years."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1130	You draw all kinds of conclusions that are not in the motion of censure. A motion of censure is a serious means of content. It is about the actions of Mr Rutte as party leader, as group chairman, and I do not want to interfere with his role in the cabinet. I have the greatest possible difficulty with it, but I have weighed very carefully what is currently appropriate to his role as chairman of the political group, because that was what this whole debate was about. In my view, a motion of censure is the most appropriate. I will not speak for Mr Hoekstra, but his name is also underneath. I have also said in my text that it is not self-evident that the VVD leader will gain confidence and lead in the next phase of the exploration. When I come to the end of my own text, you will also hear me say that we are pursuing and promoting a different political culture. Nothing has been said about the negotiating table. Nor has it been said whether I will agree with that. That depends on the course of the interviews with an informant, when appointed. As far as I'm concerned, it's back to starting point zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1131	Mrs Kaag has a unique opportunity to put an end to ten years of Rutte's reign. Exactly what Mrs Kaag reads, namely: to do justice to the victims of the premium affair. And I'll tell you, do you know what their punishment was if they didn't tell the truth? They were destroyed for ten years under the guidance of this Rutte. And it is a credit to you, Mr President-in-Office, to say that you are not quoting that argument, but actually doing exactly what Rutte has been doing for ten years, namely getting away with lying and cheating - something Mr Omtzigt was horrified of, even as far as he called Rutte the boss of a banana monarchy. You will be helping Mr Rutte for the next four years. Painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1132	I guess you didn't understand my words, to be honest, Mr. Azarkan. You are jumping to a conclusion that is certainly not my goal. I want to go back to point zero, but I also believe that we should use the right means. I am not going to use a motion retrospectively for a result that was not achieved at the time. And when we talk about a two-term Prime Minister, that is a matter of principle for D66 of political renewal. That is not aimed at a person; it could have been about anyone. That is what we stand for as a party. But we want to keep it pure when it comes to this, and I think that a motion of censure is the most serious means of dealing with the circumstances. And we can all go back to an informant and talk about who we're negotiating with. And I didn't say it was with Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1133	This is, of course, not a formal motion of censure, but a substantive motion of censure. I do not agree with Mr Azarkan. When I hear what's in that motion, and what Mr Kaag says... She says that confidence in the Prime Minister, in Mr Rutte, has suffered a severe dent; the distance has grown. She's questioning his denials. She says he didn't tell the truth. And she approves of his performance, which is basically what it all comes down to. What you have done, Mrs Kaag - and I do not know whether you deserve a compliment or not - is that after ten years you have put an end to Mr Rutte's reign. Because with a motion of censure tabled by two coalition parties, although it is about the substance and not about the mistrust of the person, you de facto now, at the moment, have decapitated Mr Rutte politically. That is what you have done, because you have abandoned and rejected the confidence in his policy, and that has put an end to the Rutte period. In my view, it is my group that can help that motion to a majority, and you need the PVV votes to do so. We have our own motion of censure, but we will strongly support your motion and help a majority, because we are pleased to put an end to Rutte's misery in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1134	I still have a question about it. For the words sound good, but the question is: what do these two parties, Mrs Kaag and Mr Hoekstra, mean by this motion, which I assume will be adopted? If it's accepted, then what? What conclusion should Mr Rutte draw from that? In a motion of censure, that is clear. And what conclusion should Mr Rutte draw from the motion adopted by Mr Kaag and Mr Hoekstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1135	Well, I can't speak for Mr. Rutte. It would touch me deeply; let me put it this way. I would draw my own conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1136	And what would they be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1137	I think my answer is clear, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1138	Then I interpret that in such a way that Mrs Kaag would draw the conclusion to this motion that she cannot continue as the leader of her party. That's what she'd do. I am going to ask Mr Hoekstra this later. The next question is... We have seen Mr Rutte here today, of course we have seen Mr Rutte say to the press: I did not talk about Omtzigt. Today it turned out to be. Mrs Kaag rightly says: I have doubts about the line of defence. But I asked in this debate: are you doing all this on behalf of the entire VVD Group, is the VVD Group behind this? Then the answer was "yes." Does this not mean that it will be impossible to continue with the VVD if they continue to support and defend this line of Mr Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1139	I do not speak for the VVD; far from it. I think this is a question you should ask them. Mr Rutte has previously said to your question that he has full confidence and that he, of course, speaks as a leader on behalf of the VVD. I have said that the whole process of exploration and information must start again. I also think that my text of the motion states that it is not self-evident that the same parties continue in the same way. I don't want to take all kinds of big steps here at 2:00 a.m. I think my text is clear and so is my explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1140	My question to Mrs Kaag is as follows. You're using big words. You are actually saying that if I were Mr Rutte, I would draw my conclusions. Earlier you mentioned a pattern of forgetfulness, I believe, and you said that your ways separate. Then why do you not support the motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1141	I think I explained that. I do not want to mix Mr Rutte's actions as party leader with his role as Prime Minister. We have to keep this right here, too. These conversations were made with him. His comments on his talks stem from his role as party leader and group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1142	To be honest, I don't see very well what exactly would be the difference. You can talk about it under state law at all or that's a weird person, yes or no. I think it's about what you're trying to do with this. I keep having questions about that, because the words are firm, but I think everyone will ask themselves the following. You said earlier: I'm going to reflect on what it means for D66's negotiating position vis-à-vis the VVD. But if you are going to use such big words tonight, should you just come to the conclusion tonight that it is unthinkable that you can still use this VVD and this Mark Rutte? You call him "a pattern of forgetfulness" and say tonight: he should actually draw his conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1143	I've said before... I often hear Mrs Marijnissen say 'big words'. I often listen to Mrs Marijnissen's big words, but that aside. For the third time, I say that it is not self-evident that VVD leader Rutte will gain confidence and lead in the next phase of the exploration. I want to be clearer than that, and I don't need to be at the moment. A motion of censure is a very heavy means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1144	Then I would like to make that clear: so you do not want to be clearer. If you say on the one hand "he actually has to draw his conclusions," but on the other hand keeps the option open that you are going to reflect at Easter and that after that the formation continues and yet you keep this VVD, with that pattern of forgetfulness, in the saddle, I honestly do not understand what that new leadership means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1145	You love it; I know. I invite everyone to take lessons in new leadership, but more importantly, Mrs. Marijnissen, you're always jumping to the next stage. You want to hear it, because it seems to be part of the role of MP. I totally understand that. I still have to learn that. I weigh everything in phases. I have looked very hard at the content and I have been looking for it myself: a motion of censure is a heavy means of substance, appropriate to what I want to say, with Mr Hoekstra, about the role of VVD leader Mark Rutte. It is a clear message about the process, about our expectations and about a complete restart, on a completely independent basis with an informant, of every process of negotiation. That is what has been said here. I do not think I am obliged to say at this stage in what way, with whom and at what point I will enter into any negotiation. My message is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1147	Finally, I see Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1148	Finally, Mr President. Mrs Kaag says: I am very clear. But I don't think Mrs Kaag is so clear. You can blame me for the role of a Member of Parliament. I'm fine with all of that. But I'm just asking you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1149	It's not a reproach, it's my own learning process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1150	Then my question to Mrs Kaag is: what exactly does she expect from that reflection period in Easter? She says she still needs it to weigh and there needs to be a restart. But that reboot will still be with this VVD, with this Mark Rutte? Is that something you can be clear about, that at least you can't see that path with this VVD, with Mark Rutte? Or is that still open as far as you're concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1151	I answered everything. I think the motion of censure is clear. There are a lot of variations to form a government. You seem to be excluding yourself. I don't know. There's a lot possible. It's important we get an informant. It's not said it's D66 and VVD or VVD with D66. There are a lot of possibilities. Let's reboot that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1152	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1153	I have a second motion I would like to table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1154	Mrs. Van der Plas on the previous motion. Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1155	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that, with a motion of censure, you actually dismiss Mr Rutte as party leader of the VVD, but still keep the door open for a return as Prime Minister. I didn't hear you say that I don't want him to be Prime Minister either. Maybe still a cabinet position, but... I'm just looking for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1156	Mr Rutte is a missionary, just as I and Mr Hoekstra are. At the moment, we want to look for a restart to start a better and transparent process. It is not for me to exclude anyone, in this case Mr Rutte, as leader of the largest party. I can handle my own choices on behalf of D66. The motion of censure, as expressed much better in certain places by Mr Wilders than I do now, clearly indicates on substantive grounds what has gone wrong and what we cannot therefore approve. That marks. It is an exceptional measure which is not often used. I don't have to go any further than this. Mr Rutte has received almost 2 million votes. The elections were concluded two weeks ago. I can deal with my party's attitude and choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1157	Then you're talking about restoring trust. Mrs Kaag says a lot of words, but she still does not say: I no longer want Mr Rutte as Prime Minister. This afternoon you said that Mr Rutte has a pattern of amnesia. I asked you the question: do you believe Mr Rutte on his word? I said I'd come back to that question. Do you take Mr Rutte at his word and what does that mean for cooperation next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1158	I've been thinking about that. There are a lot of people I don't necessarily believe in their word, especially in politics. That's one. I learned in my international life that a lot of people can disappoint you. I can also disappoint people. More importantly, where the border is. And a motion of censure lays down a limit to what can no longer be done, which is no longer allowed and which is mandatory in the required change of behaviour and that it must be demonstrable. That's very important. I have also said that I will repeat once again that it is not self-evident to me as D66 leader that the VVD leader Rutte will gain confidence and lead in the next phase of the exploration. Those are very heavy words. Mr Hoekstra will, I think, come back to his explanatory statement on his support or his joint submission of this motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1159	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1160	Finally, I wonder how we are going to explain this to society. You are putting in the hardest of resources, and in the end it is likely that Mr Rutte will remain seated and perhaps return as Prime Minister. I am also curious to see how many tonnes or millions are going to be put into restoring the confidence that has been completely destroyed here within a week. How are you going to explain this to society? In the meantime, as Mr Azarkan said, we are going to use the toughest means, but in the meantime, as Mr Azarkan said, we are going to say 'foot'. And then we move on to the order of the day. This can't be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1161	Quite frankly, Mrs Van der Plas, there is more to explain. I wish this was the only problem. I think the whole week is hard for a lot of people to follow. I know my own kids are trying to keep track of what it's about. Society is dealing with the corona crisis and economic recovery. Those are very big issues. I fear that many people are not following this at all, but the restoration of confidence in politics is a major task for all of us. I'm not alone in that. This is something for all 17 parties sitting and standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1162	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1163	Madam President, I will read my next motion very quickly. I would also like to ask the Chamber to have an informant examine which parties really want to work on a new, transparent administrative culture with more openness and counterpower. For that, it is necessary to break with past habits, and if Mr Rutte is unable to do so, the next cabinet will be without him or without me. Very soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the President appointed Ms Van Ark and Mr Koolmees as scouts;]] [[Whereas the political situation which has arisen calls for the restoration of confidence and a new beginning in the work on the recovery of the Netherlands from the crisis;]] [[Whereas the political situation which has arisen calls for an authoritative, independent scout with a great distance from current politics and the parties;]] [[calls on an informant to be appointed who, in talks with representatives of all political groups, explores ways in which the formation of a coalition can take place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kaag, Mr Wilders, Mr Hoekstra, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Baudet, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Segers, Mr Dassen, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Azarkan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons and Mr Rutte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1164	I would like to make one final point, Madam President. No... It's okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1165	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hoekstra on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1166	Mr President, thank you. I start by quoting the last sentence from the book of our own Pieter Omtzigt: "The challenges of the Netherlands are great. That is not something to be afraid of, but an incentive to build our beautiful country together." That is why this question is so crucial, which I concluded my first term with and which many have also referred to. How are we going to restore confidence after the last two weeks? 'Cause what an embarrassment, Mr. Chairman. From a to z! It is a disgrace for the parties that have taken the initiative in the process over the past two weeks. An embarrassment for the scouts on trial and content. It is a shame for Mr Rutte, Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Jorritsma because of what they forgot, but it turned out to be discussed. Some people thought differently, but frankly I also think it is an embarrassment for politics as a whole and therefore for Parliament. Mr. Chairman. It is extremely unsatisfactory. It is an extremely unsatisfactory debate, and I, along with Mrs Kaag, thought it appropriate to highlight it. That is in the motion she has just read out. It is crucial that we restore that trust. I have nothing further to add to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1167	I would also like to ask Mr Hoekstra what he thinks should be the conclusion that Mr Rutte should draw if this motion is adopted. And that's what I'm assuming, because I think we're all gonna support her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1168	I'm not Mr. Rutte, and I don't do if-history. That is up to Mr Rutte himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1169	Then I would like to ask Mrs Kaag what conclusion Mr Hoekstra himself would draw if this motion on him were to be tabled and adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1170	That is what I said at Mrs Ouwehand's last interruption. That's not the case, so I don't have to move in there either. I'm not Mr. Rutte. I'm not ten years old or what is it? Twelve, fourteen years of party leader, and certainly not of the VVD. It is up to Mr Rutte himself to weigh that. It's not up to me what I would have done if...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1171	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1172	It's a commonly used formulation: I'm not gonna answer any questions. But Mr Hoekstra is right to say that it is very important to restore confidence. Trust must be earned back. It can't just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1173	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1174	I assume he has an expectation of the effect of this motion. If the motion is adopted and Mr Rutte says 'well, I accept that for notification', what is the feeling that this calls for the CDA Group? After all, this cannot remain a gratuite motion. I don't think so, do I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1175	It's two-and-a-half. Mrs Ouwehand just said herself that it is a heavy means and that she would support that motion. She said it even wider, she said "the Chamber will support that motion." Then it is not something gratuitous, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1176	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1177	Well, that depends on the interpretation of the proposers. That's how it's done here. The most clear motion is Mr Wilders' motion. That motion of censure naturally supports the Animal Party. Then you'll know what you're up to. The words in the Kaag/Hoekstra motion are a good signal, but the question is what should be the consequence of this adopted motion. It seems to me that the authors could say something about what they think the effect of this motion should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1178	It's two different things. I am going to highlight once again that what has happened is, of course, very serious and that everything and everything has gone wrong in the last few weeks and also in the last few hours. If, with all the differences we have, there is one thing we agree on, then it is. At the same time, however, I think that in a motion of censure in a situation which I believe we are also in agreement with the chairman of the VVD and not his capacity of the outgoing Prime Minister, we should make that distinction. We in the CDA Group felt that we should make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1179	Of course, Mr Hoekstra is quite right when he says that I am not Mr Rutte, so I have no idea how he takes it himself. But Mr Hoekstra is about his own party. It might be a little late at night. I am simply asking a very flat question: is there any chance that Mr Hoekstra will enter a cabinet that Mr Rutte could be Prime Minister of? Is there a chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1180	Now we've gotten that nice table and we've got all the reports of what everyone's been saying, lying out here on the table. Not only myself, but even the two scouts, who were not primarily hired by me, have said that whoever felt the least challenged to participate was the CDA group. I can add that the enthusiasm has not exactly increased. I never say never. I don't do much of that in life at all. But it is not so much that Mr Azarkan will also have to acknowledge that we were standing in front of it, whether we please...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1181	I can see what Mrs Ollongren means when she says that Hoekstra is a tough negotiator. So I'm gonna move on. This is about the situation when we said three months ago that the confidence led by Mr Rutte was damaged in such a way that the cabinet resigned. Mr Omtzigt has played an excellent role in this. Then it was said: it cannot go on like this. Is that leadership something that Mr Rutte has shown in his last week's performance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1182	We need to pull some things apart. Mr Azarkan is right to refer again to this horrible surcharge affair. At that time, I also kept saying that I felt that it was appropriate for the whole cabinet to resign. I still think so, by the way. That's one. Two. I, along with Mrs Kaag, felt that this justified a motion of censure. That is different from a motion of censure that you would then file against a outgoing Prime Minister who has not acted in that capacity in this formation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1183	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1184	I fully understand that. I also understand that we are doing something that is extremely complicated under state law. I understand. But I'm gonna ask you one more time. I don't expect another very comprehensive answer. Leadership is sometimes also that you make something simple so people in the country can follow it. I will do it one more time: is there any chance that Mr Hoekstra will be taking part in a cabinet of which Mr Rutte is Prime Minister? The answer is simply simple: yes or no. Are you ruling that out or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1185	With all due respect for the leadership courses that Mr Azarkan gives to me and the others here: I have repeatedly said that we were not in the lead and that we will certainly not be in the lead after everything that has happened. But these are all matters that remain in the future. It is also completely unclear who wants to or does not want to go with who. I said that we, as the CDA Group, will be in a position to do so, as we have done in the last two weeks, and that we have not yet felt a great challenge and we do not feel that we should participate in any form of formation. Is it out of the question that that changes? No, that's not out of the question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1186	Thank you, Mr. Hoekstra. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tonight we got another ugly glimpse into the arrogance of power. From the outgoing Prime Minister we already knew that the truth for him is often only an option and that the lie often becomes a problem when he comes out. We've seen that before, whether it was the civilian deaths in Hawija or the dividend tax, with or without memos and with or without memories. We've seen it in the lies surrounding VVD'er Zijlstra. That is, as Mrs Kaag rightly pointed out, a pattern. We shall therefore support the motion of censure, because it is high time we deal with that policy of power. But the question that will have to be answered for us in the next few days and weeks and what it will really be about is the following. If we as the House of Representatives really draw a line, if we really say: we do not accept that an individual elected representative is being spoken of by Mark Rutte... This is also being lied about, up to now in this debate, with sources that would have come to him via him. He's still not willing to confess the truth. If we in the House of Representatives really want to draw a line, if we really want to learn something from the fundamental discussion about power and counterpower that has been held again tonight, then it will be about who is still willing to help that VVD and that Mark Rutte to a majority in the coming period. We won't do that. As far as we are concerned, it is high time we deal with this power policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1188	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1189	Mr. Chairman. It was a disconcerting debate. Disappointed because of a lack of memories with Mr Rutte. Disappointed because of a lack of humility with Mr Rutte. Disappointed because of a lack of self-reflection with Mr Rutte. Trust can only be regained after genuine accountability, and my group has not heard that today. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists has no choice but to abandon the confidence in Mr Rutte as Prime Minister of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1190	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1191	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate. It's almost 2:30 now. We've had a big debate. Everyone actually started early this morning with the call that this debate should be the beginning of the restoration of confidence and I conclude that we are actually worse off than how we started this morning. Mr Hoekstra, who once again indicates that he does not feel any challenge to participate in a government. The motion of censure that has been tabled. Mrs Kaag, who, in my view, has rightly spoken very clearly about what that means, including Mark Rutte's position. The motion of censure tabled by the PVV, supported by many groups, also by mine. That shows how far the deadlock has actually deepened this evening. I guess there was no other way. When I look at the debate, unfortunately, a different outcome from tonight's was not possible. We all have a very heavy responsibility to get out of this eventually, because the crisis in this country remains great. The country must be governed. There must be a missionary cabinet again soon to ensure that all these major problems are addressed. There's still big bumps ahead of us. It's gotta be quick. I would also like to ask you a question, Mr President. I have signed a motion by Mrs Kaag on the appointment of a new scout. It's gotta be quick. I think it is a good thing that everyone gets back together for that too, that we do not do that in a telephone call or something like that, so that we can make sure that there is indeed someone else, that a process is in progress, as soon as possible, to restore that confidence, because tonight it has only got a bigger pinch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1192	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1193	Madam President, colleagues. What exactly is trust? That's when you take someone's word for it. And that trust is gone. We've got two stories today that I don't think are credible at all. One concerns the alleged error of the Registrar, of the official, who would have drawn up the interviews. There would have been a very liberal explanation of thinking about the CDA with that "position elsewhere." That's totally unbelievable. The other is the story of the fact that it was only a sign of conflict of interest, a sign of a data breach, and that Rutte, in his position as chairman of the political group, would now seem to have no contact at all with the officials of General Affairs, who would not have called him at half past eight this morning. No, it's been a rumor at the tram stop. It's totally ridiculous, totally unbelievable. But there's something we can do as a room. There is one more thing that we can do, except, of course, that motion of censure, which I shall naturally support, I believe, and that is a parliamentary inquiry. Then we can hear under oath people. It's possible. That's a right of the Chamber. We can do that in the short term. In two weeks, that can be arranged. So we can hear the officials under oath, ask if it is true that the official made a mistake and interpreted it all too liberally, but we can also hear Rutte as a Member of Parliament. We just want to know where that data breach came from. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas full openness and accountability must be given to the drawing up of Mrs Ollongren's memorandum and in particular to the passage "position Ommzigt, function elsewhere";]] [[Whereas full openness should also be provided and account should be taken of the totally unacceptable state-law fact that on 1 April 2021 Mr Rutte was already informed "through" at 7.30 p.m. of information which the other group chairmen could not see until later and under specific conditions, information which, moreover, should be completely closed to him as the outgoing Prime Minister;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make proposals on the design and form of a parliamentary interrogation so that all persons involved in the reconnaissance can be heard under oath,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1194	I would like to stress once again: this is therefore a right of the Chamber. And if the Chamber is serious about getting all this over the table, if the Chamber wants this debate to really go somewhere, if you really think you want to know all this, then you can only vote for this motion. Because this is the only key we have left and the only way in to get the truth out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1195	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1196	Mr. Chairman. We have a heavy responsibility to decide that the electorate, who elected a parliament, will actually have the power that goes with it. This means that the Chamber is simply the boss and that power-forming parties or power-hungry individuals have to agree to that. Maybe we can get started on that today. The Animal Party will absolutely support Mr Wilders' motion of censure. We need to see what the consequence will be of the motion that D66 and the CDA have tabled. But that will have to result in respect, restoration of respect for the rule of law and respect for this Chamber. It must stop subjugating the interests of the Chamber to the desire for power. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I had tabled the same motion as Mr Baudet has just proposed. So I want a parliamentary interrogation, so that we can also do further research into how deep the concrete rot is in this system. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Hoe kan het dat verkenners daar zo vanzelfsprekend aan meewerken, niet de waarheid vertellen?]] What about officials involved? So that's a very good idea. If we do not take advantage of this situation to take a step towards the return of the counterpower that the Chamber should be, then this whole misery has been for nothing. I therefore call on all colleagues not to allow this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1197	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Segers has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1198	Madam President. It's been a tough debate. You can say that this is the worst possible start of a new Chamber. That has everything to do with the procedure. What's the scout's role, the scouts'? What distance do they have to the daily policy of The Hague? How independent are they? And how do they talk about members of this Chamber? In order to clarify that, I would like to table a motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber do provide for the appointment of cabinet economists and reformers and the provision of information by a reformer or informant, but that there is no mention of the designation of one or more explorers, the assignment to be carried out by them and the request for information to explorers;]] [[considers that the designation of one or more explorers should also be transparent and in accordance with established procedures and the determination of the mission to be carried out by them should be clear;]] [[Notes that it is desirable that the designation of scouts, the manner in which the assignment to be carried out and the provision of information by scouts should also be governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber;]] [[Invites the Working Method Committee, taking into account this debate and the evaluation of the formation of the Cabinet, to propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure on this point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Kaag, Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Dassen, Mr Azarkan and Mr Hoekstra.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1199	No, that's been abolished. I have indeed seen the historic words you have spoken. I miss it. But more importantly, the substance of this debate. We have been told by Mr Rutte and two scouts that a very important part of this discussion, which is contained in reports, is not remembered by them. Honestly, I find that very hard to believe. That is why we reject, I condemn, what has happened. I disapprove that falsehood has been spoken, falsehood that there has been talk of Pieter Omtzigt, but that this has been denied outside and that there should be no responsibility or need to be held accountable. We don't approve of that. I disagree with what has been said about Pieter Omtzigt, an independent MP who is extremely powerful in his work, with a large mandate from the electorate. At the very least, the impression has been given that this form of counterpower is undesirable and I reject it. I disagree with how power deals with counterpower, how a political culture has emerged in which a debate with uncertain outcome is an annoying interruption of the fixing of problems. That really calls for deep reflection. As I disapprove of what has happened, I will support the motion by colleagues Kaag and Hoekstra. The withdrawal of trust goes on, especially since it involves two different roles. Mr Hoekstra already pointed out the difference between the political leader, the political foreman here, and the Prime Minister. But it also goes on, and it weighs very heavily on our group, because we are in the midst of a huge, unprecedented and one of the worst crises since the Second World War. That weighs heavily when we consider whether we can afford to take such a step. On the other hand, you can't force trust. Mr Rutte seemed to do so in an interruption of mine when he said: now you have to trust me. Trust must be regained. He recognized that himself. But trust has been compromised. It has suffered a dent: the trust between us is now looking at shrapnel that we have to pick up and we do not yet know how to go from here to here, but also the confidence in us by people outside. That too must be restored. What is needed for this is another political culture: dualism, the restoration of a healthy relationship between power and counterpower. There's still a long way to go, but I'm gonna make myself strong for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1200	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Dassen on behalf of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1201	Mr. Chairman. This day brought answers but with no confidence. The collective amnesia of the leaders heard today is not convincing. A motion alone does not fully restore confidence in the rule of law and democracy, but it is the instrument that we have today and my group therefore supports the motion of censure as proposed by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1202	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I now give the floor to Mr Eerdmans on behalf of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1203	Madam President, thank you very much. It's nice how many head rollers have been able to bring back so many memories tonight and this afternoon. Thank you for that. Then there's this incredible scenario, and as far as we're concerned, it's impossible. You have read all kinds of articles about Mr Omtzigt, about the CDA, about stability. On that basis, you are concerned about the CDA, about Mr. Hoekstra. Then you forget that you discussed all that. That remains an unbelievable story in the literal sense. The crucial sentence that makes us feel the most is the phrase "you have to do something with Omtzigt." That is a sentence that you know cannot be explained differently. I have asked several times, including Mr Rutte................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The conclusion that JA21 draws tonight, tonight, this morning, what you want to call it, is that Omtzigt was just too difficult for a new coalition, for the VVD. That was the thought, which should never have seen the light, but did eventually. We wholeheartedly support the Wilders motion. We also support the Kaag/Hoekstra motion. On behalf of JA21, I wish everyone a good night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1204	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1205	Madam President. New steps are being taken today towards the formation of a new cabinet. That's important. It is important that an informant be asked again so that this process can progress. It is important to also learn lessons from the failed exploration phase. In that light, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet formation begins with a phase in which one or more explorers must identify the possibilities for forming a cabinet;]] [[noting that it is very important at that stage that the greatest possible care should be taken not to damage confidence in advance;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it has great advantages in giving the "start-off" of the formation to persons who, by reason of their function and/or their personality, are a little further away from the political struggle;]] [[calls on the Court to review the formation 2021, as was the case with the previous one, and to explicitly consider the possibility of entrusting an "external party" with the first steps in the formation of the Cabinet, with the explicit inclusion of a possible role for the head of state over the parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1206	Mr. Chairman. And last but not least, today it was also about an integrity of political culture and administrative culture, the need to strengthen counterpower and strengthen confidence in the government. In this light, we continue to talk about what we have seen and heard today. In Mr Omtzigt's sensitive question, the truth has not been spoken before by Mr Rutte and the former scouts. The image of cover and collective forgetfulness lingers, and that creates mistrust. Mr. Chairman. My group believes it is important to draw a clear line at the beginning of a new term of office. That is why we shall be voting in favour of both the motion of censure and the motion of censure with great pain on this dark Good Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1207	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1208	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Prime Minister said no one is going to explain this. It may be, because we are now 13 hours away. If you debate for 13 hours, you may lose sight of the essence. This debate is not about what Ollongren said or wrote down. This debate is not about what Mrs Jorritsma has done. Nor is it about what Mr Koolmees and Mrs Van Ark have done. Nor is it a question of who informed the Prime Minister at 7.30 p.m. In essence, this is about whether we in this Chamber accept that the leader of the largest group in this House has been lying for a week. For a week he fooled society, the Netherlands, but also this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That's not something that stands on its own. We have seen how this Prime Minister wanted to give EUR 2 billion annually to the multinationals and also lied about the memos. We've seen that he was suffering from his memory again about Hawija and didn't know he was informed at the time. Mr. Chairman. We are dealing with a situation less than three months ago that this Prime Minister said that tens of thousands of citizens have been wronged. And we haven't been three months. We wouldn't be worth a snipe if we accepted that behavior again. I call on colleagues to support both motions. DENK will do so wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1209	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan on behalf of 50PLUS. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1210	Mr. Chairman. This morning, to be honest, I started this debate with confidence. But after more than 13 hours there have been insufficient and unsatisfactory answers on 50PLUS and I feel that we have not learned anything, but that we have heard many more contradictions. Although I agree with Mr Kaag's and Mr Hoekstra's motion for a resolution which is more appropriate in terms of substance, we shall first of all support the Wilders motion. But we will also support the Kaag/Hoekstra motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1211	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas on behalf of BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When my kids were little, I taught them not to lie. I always said to them, always tell the truth. Telling the truth may be hard to do, but the truth is always less bad than the lie itself. Then you can start working on repair. There's only one way to fix it. That is the truth and nothing but taking the truth and taking responsibility for your actions. That must be done here, here and now. Apologies aren't enough. Take responsibility for what Mr Omtzig has done to our citizens and our democratic rule of law with this shameful display; that is what needs to be done. It's not just Pieter Ommzigt that deserves this. All over 17 million people in the Netherlands deserve this. Mr. Chairman. Does Mr Rutte still believe himself to be credible? Can Mr Rutte designate someone in this Chamber who still believes in him or takes his word for it? Mr. Chairman. We urge Mr Rutte to honour himself. If this does not happen, we can only support Mr Wilders' motion and Mrs Kaag's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1213	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Simons on behalf of BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You must be very flexible in mind to follow the maze of reasonings of the old scouts and of Mr. Rutte. It's a word circus that goes on until no one knows what it's about. That seems to me, if I've been paying attention, exactly the strategy of old politics. There may be more questions at this time than when we started the debate this morning. What we have not heard is an answer to the question of who is "through." Who leaked to Mr. Rutte this morning? What we have not heard is an answer to the question of what exactly has been discussed about Mr Omtzigt. What we haven't heard is the self-reflection to say: we have gone too far; we apologize, but we also accept our responsibility. I am very afraid that we are not going to receive those answers from the people concerned either. I don't think that's a crazy conclusion after so many hours. And that while the knowledge of what happened is here in the Chamber, with the new or the old scouts. That's worrying. For those who cannot bear the consequences of their own actions should not hang around such important positions of power. That is why, of course, we support D66's motion to find new scouts, one or more, and to see how we proceed together. But we support first and foremost the motion of censure. I'm not allowed to jog. Also my mom taught me not to bounce. So I have to say here: I had no faith in the Prime Minister when I was a citizen, and that hasn't gotten any better today. But we also support Mrs Kaag's and Mr Hoekstra's motion for a resolution in the interests of security. I conclude with the words that those who preach new leadership must also show new leadership. I have seen that new leadership today, but not in today's lead, not in those who should show it after ten years of mandate. To be honest, I am surprised that Mrs Kaag and Mr Hoekstra seem to have that. There is much to BET1 to make a new wind blow through this country. That is why we are not taking any risks and will use all possible means to achieve them. Conjecture, disapproval, it doesn't matter to us; enough is simply enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1215	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1216	I'm gonna suspend until 3:00 and then we're gonna vote.
