ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u1	I give the floor to the initiator, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is a special time to stand here as a Member of Parliament. This is my second time. My first time was a few years ago at the initiative law on credit unions, together with the CDA. Now I'm only allowed to stand here defending a bill, one of the most beautiful rights you have as a Member of Parliament. If you'll allow me, I think it's kind of special to do that in the presence of Ferd Crone. More than twenty years ago I had the first acquaintance with him in the Lower House. Ferd was then financial spokesman for the PvdA; that's me now. He then took a few young talents, if you can say that about yourself, under his care and trained them. The first debate at Congress, which was also on the head twenty years ago, I think, or perhaps twenty years and two months ago, was a fierce debate about living. I wanted the mortgage interest deduction to be abolished, or actually phased out, in our programme. Ferd, or Mr Crone, I must say, was standing on fire and defending the sword that should not be. It got very exciting. Melkert and Kok were supposed to be on stage. Eventually, it remained unchanged. Fortunately, this time I was allowed to participate in the election programme myself and it is settled. But it is very special to have this debate here with Ferd Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u3	I'll come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the bill. All the speakers have actually raised the question as to whether this solves the fundamental problems of housing, as Mrs De Boer rightly calls it. The answer to that is three yards no. It's gonna take a lot more than that. Affordable homes must be built for all groups, not only for tenants above the social rental limit, but also for the elderly, including for young people, including for start-ups. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the free sector also needs to be regulated much more. I would also like to say that the point system needs to be increased in the direction of Mr Kox, who explicitly asked for it. And, of course, much more needs to be done. As far as I am concerned, the slugger's fine must also be introduced. So this is not the solution to all of the problems; I admit this immediately to the Council of State, which had this as its main point of criticism, and I am also giving it directly to all of you, who have somehow remembered it. Having said that, this is a fundamental legislative change, because the free sector is regulated. Right now, tenants are outlaws. The reason for me to submit this bill was that people said to me: "Henk, I received a letter from my landlord at once in October; my rent was increased by €50 or €100 per month. I paid €800 rent and that became €900 on 1 January. The following year I got another one of those letters, and then it became €1,000. For example, in a few years it has become €800, which I could pay, €1,100 or €1,200, and that is not possible. Can this be done in the Netherlands? I've lived here for so long." The shocking answer to that was: yes, that can just happen. This law makes that impossible, at least for the next three years. This law maximizes rent increases in the free sector on inflation plus 1%, and also gives the people covered access to the Rent Committee. The latter has not really been mentioned. It is therefore also a broader protection than just a legislative amendment. We must also be able to enforce legal protection, and that can be done through the Rent Committee. I would also like to point that out. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the successive questions that have been asked. I'm just gonna finish the list of speakers. I've been advised to do that in the First Chamber, so that's how I do it. In fact, I have already touched on the fundamental point. So, with your permission, I am not going to go into that with everyone, also because of the time. I will answer the specific questions. Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks asked: what is the effect of this law on the shortstay in Airbnb; is that not increasing? It becomes more attractive for landlords who have properties to do so. My answer to that would be: yes, if you don't do anything about it. Now, of course, this Minister has also submitted the Tourist Rental Act, which aims to limit this. That'll help. Mr Pijlman of D66 also pointed out this. He asked: shouldn't the landlord's licenses in Groningen be deployed much wider nationally? I would like to make a warm plea, including with you, to introduce it nationwide. That's what I did in the Lower House. I agree that if you don't do anything and let everything go, that sector may grow. Of course, that doesn't apply to Airbnb at the moment. There is not much demand for this now, but it will of course come in the long term. So, yeah, it's a risk, but there's something to be done about it. There has also been a bill to do something about it. But as far as I'm concerned, there's more to it than that. I do not see that this is a major risk of this law. Mr. Kox asked about the rental stop. Shouldn't it be 0%? Actually, I'm in favour of that. You know that. That's how I've always voted. However, I am very pleased that we can present this proposal to you today. He also had the same kind of question as Mrs De Boer had: what does this mean for the temporary leases? Last week, a very adverse amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives. I also heard a debate on this. I'll leave it to you, of course, to decide how you judge it. I'm here for my bill. But I would find it very unwise to continue the flexibilisation of the rents. That's a really bad idea. As far as I am concerned, it also needs to be regulated so that a fixed lease becomes the basis again, the norm. Only in very specific circumstances, such as temporary migrant workers or temporary students, could you offer a temporary rental contract, or a flex house, which is really temporary, which you do not want to leave empty. But that's as far as it goes. But that is what other legislation is for; that is not what this legislation is for. I do know Mr Van Rooijen well from his time in the House of Representatives. We have had longer debates there than you can possibly imagine. The Law Hills is still fresh in memory; that went on until deep into the night. He pointed out that this also had material significance for the elderly. I very much agree with him. This bill also helps older people, especially if they spend longer in a rental house and have old contracts with no rent protection at all. So I agree with this point he made. Mr Van der Linden of the Nanninga Group had a number of questions to the Minister, including about inflation and how it was designed. He's right: inflation often doesn't include housing prices. I am also an economist of profession, as a derogation, which seems to be quite difficult. It does give rise to some technical difficulties in incorporating them into inflation. But I would say that for a law that applies for three years, such a fundamental discussion is perhaps less relevant than in the event that you would settle it for ten or twenty years. Of course inflation is relevant, but so much does not care about inflation rates. If you do it for three years, I wouldn't say it's out of control. And that is quite apart from the fundamental question of whether you think it is desirable that the house price increases are rewarded with higher rents. You can also think differently about the content. From an investor's point of view, I can imagine that you are following Mr Van der Linden's argument, which says: investors are also more lost in house prices, so you actually need to get more returns. From the tenant's point of view you can say: if average prices do not rise, why would you allow increases for the rent? So you can reason both ways. But we have done it as it was actually done in the existing rental legislation. We now have maximized rent increases, including for the social rental sector. They are based on inflation. We have included them in this bill, so that you do not have different percentages in different housing laws. Mr Van Hattem votes in favour, but he thinks it is a drop in the ocean. I'm glad he votes in favour. I think that's a very sensible choice anyway. I indicated in the beginning of my introduction that this will not solve everything, but that this is a substantial improvement for a whole group of tenants. Tens of thousands of tenants will notice this. Especially against tenants who are in a bad mood, as an individual, you are poorly protected. This really helps with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u5	For the record, my comment about the drop in the ocean was more about the Minister's legislative proposals. All the compliments for Mr Nijboer's bill. That is indeed an essential contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u6	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u7	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u8	Mr Crone asked whether a rental permit should not be introduced. Mr Pijlman of D66 actually introduced that. I am firmly in favour of that. If you're breaking the law, there's got to be a sanction, too. I am very happy that tenants in the free sector can now also go to the Rent Committee. But there's no sanction. All you have to do is pay back the difference between the rent you were allowed to charge and the rent you charged. But there are quite a lot of risks for tenants to go to the Rent Committee. You'll only have a miserable landlord who also has the neighborhood and puts very nasty tenants in it. Or you'll just be someone who says, "I'll go up against my landlord, but he lives upstairs and then he's gonna be annoying." Besides, it's a bit of a mess. We have quite a few people who don't understand our rental committee system to the finesses. The problem of low literacy is huge. There are a lot of people who do not apply for fees and who therefore do not exercise their rights. Of course, that's what's going on here. I am therefore very much in favour of fineing it. You can do that by withdrawing a permit. Anyway, there's no permit system. That system was introduced in Groningen on the basis of the local police regulation, but it is doubtful whether that is the best legal basis. You know more about that in this gremium than I do. But it would be good to do that and then sanction it if you break it. The same applies, of course, to this law. You actually have to include the whole housing legislation, whether it's fire safety, which you're asking for or other methods, underneath. So I very much agree with Mr Crone. Mr Rietkerk of the CDA said: "That IVBN, so those institutional investors, had actually already agreed that the rents in those cities, specifically in Amsterdam and Utrecht, should not be increased so much. So does that help?" I have two answers to that. Firstly, yes, because it is not agreed in many places. And two: it's all nice and nice that the IVBN does, but of course the tenant who doesn't rent is not protected by that. We all know pawnshops and house milkers who are not affiliated with industry associations. Just those tenants often have contracts that don't do the right thing. There are standard contracts that are quite reasonable and according to the law, but of course there are also people who rent something from someone who is almost without a contract and who are therefore completely unprotected at the moment. The only thing you can't do is ask for a rent to bully someone away, but anything else you can do in terms of market. Whatever the lunatic gives for it, a landlord can ask, and in a few months you're out on the street and you can't go anywhere. That's what this law protects. Mr Rietkerk also asked about quotas and whether they should be extended. I told you, if you want to build a million houses, it's gonna take more than just this law. That's not what this law is for at all. So we also need wider quotas. I very much agree with Mr Rietkerk. He asked the specific question about this law: do sustainable investment not lead to or have a price increase, or less sustainable investment? Here we follow the same system as in the existing rental legislation. If you live in a rental house, you may be isolated and the rent may also be increased, but not more than reasonable. Those two elements are in there. So you can increase the rent to get it back and you may not increase the rent by €100 in the month for a sustainable investment of €1,000. That doesn't make any sense. The same system is also being tested. You can go to the Rent Commission for that, too. You can also go to the Rent Commission for this. So I think that's reasonably designed in this way. Mr Raven has not asked me a question. I won't skip you, but you haven't asked me a question. I don't answer questions that haven't been asked to me. Then I come to Mr Pijlman. Temporarily and permanently. Yeah, that's a good question. If it is up to me, there will be a completely different system of housing and that task will also lie with a new cabinet. If you go through the points system, increase and regulate the rent protection, and thus regulate the rent increases in a certain way, then this law is of course part of the new system as you like, or it will be designed separately. That seems to me to be commendable. I would definitely do that. I would certainly arrange that on the formation table. If that doesn't happen, and the new coalition doesn't come out, then I'd be very eager for renewal. That is why there is also an evaluation clause after two and a half years, so that it could also be extended after three years. Otherwise, tenants in the free sector will again be outlawed and have no protection. So it depends very much on the arrangements made in the formation. But I do agree with Mr Pijlman; I am nothing more sweet than making rent protection permanent in the free sector. It should not be a temporary experiment, after which all tenants are outlawed again. I wouldn't be in favour of that. I have actually already answered the questions about the initial hires. I heard this bill isn't an answer to that. It is also political; you judge legally but you are also a member of a political party. I couldn't manage this politically in the House of Representatives. I could've filed it, but it would've been voted down nicely and I wouldn't have achieved anything. I am in favour of regulating the starting rents and I am also in favour of extending the points system, but that had not received the coalition's green light. So I'm glad I got this far, but I agree that more can be done. I've already answered the Groningen approach. I am very much in favour of introducing it. Moreover, the flexibility argument that the Dutch Parliamentary Coalition voted in favour last week does not help that. That only makes it more flexible and that also gives more opportunities to increase initial hiring. Finally, Mr van der Burg, President, and I hope that I have stayed within the time I have indicated. In addition to his generous compliments to the PvdA, whom I would like to receive, I am from the cheerful side of the party... he asked the minister, but also a little to me, when something is excessive. Why is it 2.5% and not 1%? Yes, of course, such a percentage is always arbitrary. As I said to Mr Kox, it should have been inflation as far as I am concerned. But, yeah, you'll figure it out. I really call on the sector not to use inflation plus 1% as a guideline but as a ceiling. It's also a legal limit. So you can really go to inflation and you can also do a rent down. There is also a bill rent discounts for it. I think that the ceiling of inflation plus 1% at this time is not unreasonable, also because investors themselves say that they can do so, even in Amsterdam and Utrecht. Above it is somewhat excessive, especially if you know that a quarter of the tenants don't make ends meet at the end of the month. If you see that the rents have risen most in the last six years since 20, 30 years, then you have to do something about it. You only do that if you intervene a little. You don't do that by saying that it can increase by 5% a year and that we still think that it is reasonable, because that doesn't change that much. If you're doing 5% a year, 2.5% inflation and 2.5% rent increase, and that's for five years, then you've got a quarter higher rent. Well, bring that up. I give it to the average house owner to do. Finally, Mr President. Thank you so much for your input and warm words. I have actually heard it from every group. I've appreciated that very much. It's been a pleasure defending this place, and I look forward to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u9	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to answer the questions that have been put to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u11	Wait, you're out of line. A different table will be cleaned for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u12	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Nijboer began by saying that he finds it special to be here. I agree. I am here as an advisor to the Chamber, but also in the capacity as a legislator, because we are dealing with both the initiative law and a number of other matters. I heard Mr Nijboer take back the history he has with Mr Crone. Then I thought, "Would you like me to do that?" Mr Crone and I are going back a long way, but I am not going back. I don't have anyone in this room to pick up on either, so I'm gonna go straight to the content. This is an important subject. Living and the affordability of living are subjects on which I have often had the opportunity to debate in this Chamber. We all know that the cut on the housing market puts pressure on affordability. I have tried to work hard on this over the past year, together with other parties, because it is partly also about building and making more homes. In the meantime, we have been able to take measures to keep living affordable for low incomes and middle incomes. The House is right to draw attention to this today. Mr Nijboer's own-initiative proposal contributes to this affordability. I would like to support this wholeheartedly: to keep the free rental sector affordable and to remove the uncertainty among tenants due to large price increases that can come towards them. So we also have two other legislative proposals today, namely on the temporary rent discount and on rental and income limits. These are legislative proposals which should also contribute to improving the affordability of rents. I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. After that, I will immediately answer the questions. At its core, these two legislative proposals are divided into three parts. By distinguishing SGEI income limits according to the size of the household, we improve access for families to the social rental sector. I am not lowering the limit for single people, because that does not fit in with the present times and the uncertainty that Corona has brought with it for many people. I shall now turn to the questions on this subject. Housing corporations will also be given more room for customization in the free allocation area. I better align the limit for income-dependent rent increases with income, so that people with their income just above the social rent limit cannot face a high rent increase. At the same time, higher rents can be requested more quickly from households with the highest incomes, thus making a more appropriate contribution to keeping rents affordable for lower income households or, of course, for investments in new buildings and sustainability. So it's a big deal. In addition, barriers are removed so that landlords can more easily apply the temporary rental discount to the tenants who need it. This is actually an important prerequisite for implementing the customisation of the agreements between tenants and landlords, for example if there is income decline due to corona or other personal circumstances that may exist. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I wanted to do. I shall begin with the questions that have been asked to me about Mr Nijboer's bill. Next, I will address the questions about the bill rent and income limits and the bill temporary rent discount. Then I will deal with the questions that have been asked about the freezing of rents and finally I have a number of other questions. So I'm actually doing it in fours. Mr Nijboer himself has just defended his proposal. There were a number of specific questions. Mr Van der Burg said that this law, which I am positive about and which the cabinet is positive about, should counter excessive increases. At first we thought of 2.5%. So he was actually wondering why this was the case. That has, I think, very to do with the fact that we live in a special time with corona and many uncertainties. Indeed, I intended to maximise the rent increase in the free sector, but that was inflation plus 2.5%. After that, there was good consultation between the cabinet and two opposition parties, GroenLinks and the Labour Party, in which we were able to make a number of agreements on the dossier. We then agreed with each other on the housing fund and also on this rent increase. I think this serves a purpose at the moment. I think it's the right balance in the end. It is necessary, because on the one hand we have to make sure that landlords can get a return to balance the other things we expect from them, namely building and sustaining, with the security that tenants need on the other hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u13	I understood the Minister's second argument very well: I made a deal with the PvdA and GroenLinks; at least she said it a little more diplomatic, but that was what it was. I didn't get the first argument. Because the minister said: we live in difficult times because of corona. But that was the argument that Mr Kox and his many supporters used nine months ago to intervene at that time. Then, among other things, I supported your argument: no, when it comes to corona, there is only one small group affected by the combination of loss of income and rent. The discussion about the 800,000 is independent of corona. So I don't understand the first argument, because this is exactly what you used nine months ago to disagree with Kox and his people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u14	But Kox cum suis also asked for something else. They asked for rent freezes across the board, while the cabinet already intended to look at a ceiling in the free sector. That was only higher than the maximum that we finally agreed, that is to say, we have finally also agreed to Mr Nijboer's proposal, which is 1%. I would like to comment on this in a little more detail later. Mrs De Boer and others have asked for a reflection on the past year, the appeal of the Chamber, the steps that I then took in the sphere of rents and rent reductions and finally the motion adopted in the House of Representatives. If Mr Van der Burg agrees, I shall come back to that later in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u15	Another point, because I understand that it is debatable whether it is 1%, 1.5%, 2% or 2.5%. At some point there comes a number where you can say: this is an excessive increase in housing costs. Mr Nijboer mentioned the number 5, because 5 times 5 is 25. That's just your argument, Mr. Nijboer. But housing costs aren't just rising because of rent charges. They're going up different, too. I happen to know that you live in Amsterdam. I have just looked at the fact that this year's waste tax increased by 18% and the IZB by 22%. Would you call that an excessive rise in housing costs for the people who have to pay it, if 5% is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u16	Mr Van der Burg has just asked the same question. The waste levy must be cost-effective. Mr Van der Burg knows this very well as a former alderman and councilman. There is, in a sense, a limit to that through cost security. The IZB is an instrument that is ultimately the competence of the municipalities, i.e. of the municipal councils. They have also used them sometimes because of the problems that are widespread in the municipal finances. Of course, it's the one who has to pay for it. But I think it is a different matter from the rent increases that people have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u17	It's true: I was alderman; even stronger, I was with the minister. Moreover, the waste levy must be maximum cost-covering. So this one doesn't have to be cost-effective. That's one. Two. You say that it is the power of municipal councils to determine how much the ozb may increase. At the moment it is the power of landlords in the free sector to choose the rental they want. We're just saying to each other: we're setting a line there. I do not need to tell you, as Minister of the Interior, that there are many examples where you limit the powers of the city council. So why do you think 5% is excessive? I will go along with Mr Nijboer's example and go along with a limit, but do you not think 22% is a reason to limit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u18	Mr Van der Burg makes it very political and pulls it very wide. It's okay. That's perfectly legitimate. When we look at the rent developments in recent years and the rent increases that people are facing, I think that, with Mr Nijboer and many others with me, they have often been excessive. Of course, that has everything to do with the market conditions, which led landlords to choose, I'll say. That is an undesirable development. I'm not from the very quick intervention if you don't have to. But in this case, I think you can argue and argue that it is necessary to set a limit here as a government. People who have no other options can otherwise not move and face a rent increase for them almost impossible to bear. That's what we do here. Of course, you can always question any form of taxation and judge it, regardless of what government layer you are. But that is how the system works in my view and why I support this proposal. I think it's very useful to get a better and healthier rental market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u19	Mr. Van der Burg, I have a feeling you're not going to get another answer. So unless you have another question, I ask the Minister to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u20	Mr. Chairman. A few other questions on this subject. A question has been asked about the IVBN, which says that this is actually already happening. Members do not even need this bill, because they are already doing so in practice. That is true, of course, because the rent increase for sitting tenants in the free segment has been on average low. It's been kept below inflation. But this is not meant to stop all rent increases forever and ever, but it ensures that excessive rent increases are simply no longer possible. The security we offer to individual tenants is, I think, very important. At the same time, a balance has been found, so that landlords can still get a real return. In my view, this is an added value. Then Mr Van der Linden of the Nanninga Group asked whether the rise in house prices should not be a component if we look at inflation, for example. After all, we limit inflation plus 1%. The allowed rent increase in the social sector is based on the consumer price index. That is what Mr Nijboer has based his proposal on, or he has actually connected it to it. The landlords have property. They can also buy, but of course they don't do that every year. In this sense, the landlords do not have to deal with these rising rents every year. So I think this is a good way to assume, to base it on. Then there was another question about the derogation. That was actually a question to the initiator, but the question was also asked to me, I think. I just need to explain what it's about. It is about the derogation and how we can achieve the natural gas free objective. Very often you see that the removal of natural gas from a house can be combined with measures to improve the energy label of the home. You're taking isolation measures. You improve certain things by replacing the resume with a heat pump. These are all ways to improve the home, so also to improve living comfort. Then an additional rent increase is possible. I think it is very important that this sustainability should continue and that we should not take measures that hinder this sustainability. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to move on, because that is how I dealt with the questions on the initiative proposal. I'm moving on to the bill rent and income limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u21	But there's a question for you, so I'm gonna stop you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u22	I hear the Minister say: I think it is very important that the rent... no, that the sustainability continues. That was a slip of the tongue from me, which is not really a slip of the tongue, because that sustainability ultimately leads to rent increases. Sustainability, or just degassing, costs on average €40,000, or perhaps €50,000 per house. So when the Minister says it must continue, I ask: at what price? Can the Minister also indicate what it is going to mean for possible rents in the future? Because this of course has a big price tag on it and you don't solve it with a slightly lower energy bill, which is hardly noticeable in the long run.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u23	This issue is worth a whole debate, I think. I stress that it is indeed important that this sustainability, which runs through the route of insulations, replacement measures and the improvement of the energy label, continues, so also that landlords have the space to do that kind of improvement. One of the measures is then "which is important': it is important that a rent increase is possible if there is an improvement in housing, because the comfort of living improves and the energy bill can go down. Of course, we want to achieve this in the end, but at this stage, where we are experimenting with, for example, the freeing of natural gas in whole neighbourhoods, we simply do not have so much experience with it and we see that money will indeed have to be invested to make it profitable. But we are actually only on the verge of the goal of the energy transition, so we are moving away from fossil fuels and moving towards the use of renewable fuels. Much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u24	So the Minister says: sustainability must continue. But the question remains: at what price? The minister says it has to be comfortable, but if there's one comfort that doesn't stand up to it, that's the beautiful old-fashioned gas genre. They're taking people away from them. People can no longer cook finely on gas and no longer simply heat their house with a gas boiler, but depend on such a poor heat pump. So that comfort is still a long way to go. Then how can you justify a rent increase like that? At what price does the Minister intend to continue this sustainability?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u25	I know the PVV likes natural gas. We did that for a long time in the Netherlands, until there were far too many earthquakes in Groningen. People have been sitting there for years with subsidences and problems with their homes. So we want to turn off the gas tap in Groningen. We also do not want to depend on Russian gas, for example. We can still differ on that, but I think it is wise to go to renewable energy sources anyway. The gas the PVV loves so much stops. And that's a good thing. There is a price tag in the transition, for which this cabinet has also made a lot of money. I am convinced that these costs will eventually go down and that we will be able to make the whole built environment in the Netherlands more sustainable at a reasonable price.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u26	Mr. Van Hattem, last time, because it's a little out of the debate right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u27	It has everything to do with rental prices, especially in the long term. The Minister says we have to get rid of the gas completely. But gas is really clean. We do not have to pump it up from Groningen anymore, but it can be bought from abroad. Whether via Russia, Norway or any other country, or via biogas...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u28	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u29	The question is: shouldn't we simply use this kind of means to keep the houses comfortable, without us all having to make rent increases in the future, so that our tenants are confronted with even higher prices and no more comfort, even more so, the gas comfort is taken away?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u30	Now I thought through the first part of Mr Van Hattem's contribution that we were still approaching each other, namely that we put the comfort and rental prices at the centre of the tenants, but he ended up again by declaring his love for the natural gas. However, I can fully support the first part of his contribution. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the rental and income limits and the bill that sees it. Some questions have been asked about that. First of all, Mr Crone regretted that we have incorporated the sweet and the acid into a single legislative proposal. Well, it's just the way you look at what's sweet and what's sour. But the only thing I am concerned with is that there is a substantive policy link between the two proposed measures. There is also technical coherence with regard to the target group. So it makes sense to incorporate it into a single bill. This means that it can also be discussed in coherence here and in the Lower House. That's all it is. It's just the substantive coherence. Mrs De Boer asked what legislation lays down the level of the SGEI income limit. The income limits mentioned by the Implementing Law on rental accommodation are related to the income-related high rent increase. This is not about the differentiation of the SGEI border but about the income-dependent high rent increase. Only the differentiation of the income limit to household composition is made possible by this bill in the Housing Act. The level of the income limits is not laid down in the legislative proposal itself, but in the amendment of the Decision permitted institutions of housing 2015. It's in front of your room. Mr Kox asked why we are not extending the target population for social housing even further. The problem is, of course, that a higher SGEI income limit does not immediately create more homes. It does provide a larger target group. We know there are waiting lists right now. We all think it is important that the existing housing stock is used as well as possible. I think that's important. You always have to consider which households are eligible for a social housing. And what are their chances of success in getting such a social housing? That will, of course, be under pressure when you expand the target group. Nevertheless, I think it is important, in what we are proposing and agreeing on, that we should be able to distinguish between single and multi-person households. This way we can also create some more opportunities for those multi-person households. And we have to do it well, but Mr Kox and I are probably a little different from the definition of the target group, so that, according to the European Commission and on the basis of European legislation, it can and is state aid proof. I think we can just do it with this proposal. Mr Rietkerk also asked about these borders, but I would like to say the same to him. The target group will be expanded. We are now talking about an extension of 241,000 multi-person households. We are also doing a number of other things, such as extending the free allocation area. I therefore think that, with what we are doing now, I am also referring to the answer I gave to Mr Kox on European state aid and so on. But it would also be very difficult to do a lot more than this. Then I come to the feasibility of the free allocation. Mr Van Rooijen asked for that. The income of tenants of corporate housing is assessed, either in the allocation of the property or in the test for the income-dependent rent increase. This means, in practice, that the corporation must classify that allocation to municipalities in its administration. That's basically basic. That's what's happening now. That free allocation is going to be 7.5% by default, but this can be what the incentive is, I think, also for municipalities through the performance agreements will be extended by another 7.5%. So it is 7.5% plus 7.5% up to 15% of free allocation space, locally, through performance agreements, in the annual cycle as used by municipalities. The entry into force is 1 January next year, 2022. This means that housing corporations and municipalities have sufficient time and opportunity to prepare themselves for this. That was also Mr Van der Linden's question, I think. I therefore also refer him to these possibilities through the performance agreements. They can start now, so that it can enter into next year, with the new performance agreements. Then the section higher rent increase for very low rents. Mrs. De Boer asked for that. It is actually an old proposal, because it already dates from the Social Rental Agreement of 2018. It agreed that only for housing corporations that maximum rent increase would go to inflation plus 4.5%. There was then a desire to achieve more equality in the price, so that the price would be about the same in the case of equal housing quality. For very long-term tenants, with very limited rent increases, it may have happened in practice that the rent was very low compared to the quality of the house, if it was relatively good. But that agreement................................................................................................................................................................. Individual tenants of housing corporations could therefore receive a higher rent increase than tenants of the other landlords. This is why an alternative proposal has been made, which allows very low rents to be brought more quickly, independently of income, in relation to the quality of the home, but which does not lead to that legal inequality. That's the underlying idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u31	Mr Van der Linden has a question on the previous part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u32	The Minister will continue if the President does not give the floor. The minister went very quickly over the point of local customization. My question was actually more to make it more concrete. In the municipal councils all over the country there are council members, but also in the colleges of B and W there are mayors and aldermen who are eager to get to work on that customization and housing market. We heard here in that little debate that one puts the ball in the national government and points the other to the municipality. If this bill is adopted, I am counting on it. How can these municipal councils and lectures start implementing this customization in practice next week? What's the route planner? What can they do in the coming weeks and months to ensure that this leads to more customisation and suitable housing as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u33	We know that they are currently not making full use of the free allocation space available. So in many cases there is still a lot of room to do that better. The intention of the proposal before us is to make real use of it next year. This means that municipalities and housing corporations can already start to work there and, to some extent, fill in the free allocation space that is still available, perhaps a little more, on the way to this new method of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u34	And is the Minister willing, for example, to give some kind of easy instructions in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, so that these municipalities can get to work and make use of it? I mean, some kind of manual, hand-outs, so they can pick that up right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u35	I think that's a good suggestion. I have to say honestly: I do not know exactly if we had provided for this and whether municipalities also need it. But I certainly want to conduct that consultation with the VNG to check that out. If there is a need, I will, of course, take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u36	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u37	I think I would've handled the low rents. Mr Van der Linden also asked whether we expect a better flow in the housing market as a result of this legislative amendment. Now this system, with that income-dependent higher rent increase, is mainly to ensure that those tenants can also contribute in proportion to the payment of an appropriate rent, so that that money can then be invested again in improving the quality of the rentals, construction, etc., because those larger rental jumps are possible. But I can also imagine that after some time many tenants also experience it as an incentive to look at a property outside the regulated segment. That effect could therefore be entirely dependent, of course, on the price they could pay, on the offer that exists and on the composition of their household. So it's very custom-made. Career prospects do indeed play a role in this and the offer, as I said: is there anything at all to move to? We are of course fully committed to more new construction, so that more offers are made in the middle hire and in the purchasing sector. So it is indeed a side effect, but it also has the effect of ensuring the rent income, which are also needed. Mr Van der Linden also asked about social cohesion. He could imagine that, if people were to leave with a slightly higher income, this could affect social cohesion. I think that this is a very broad policy question, in which municipalities, residents' organisations, project developers and, of course, housing corporations are needed. It's about building middle housing and social housing, which we're working on right now. We're gonna shut down the market exploration so the housing corporations can do a little more. Those are all things that help. I also mentioned the Housing Fund. This has been agreed with the Labour Party and GroenLinks and has broad support. That's something you invest in the most vulnerable areas. It is also good for quality of life and social cohesion. So we have to use all these instruments to do that. I agree with Mr van der Linden that it is important to improve social cohesion. Finally, a question from Mr Van Rooijen on the Van Otterloo amendment. He pointed that out. The amendment was rejected. It was about the exception for AOWs to the income-dependent higher rent increase. As a cabinet, we have ruled that it is not really necessary, because in different ways the affordability of rents for AOW'ers is secured. We set the income limit at such a level that households can pay that higher rent increase. These income limits are about €30,000 above the AOW level, so only older people with a large supplementary pension could be eligible for this rent increase. A distinction for AOWs is also difficult to justify, because then you actually get unequal treatment with equal incomes. Finally, and perhaps somewhat reassuring 50PLUS: we are broadening the relapse option. In other words, the right to a reduction in rent due to a decrease in income, for example through the death of a partner, is extended. That right goes from two to three years. Now the tenant can correct the higher rent increase over the last two years to the future. This will therefore be extended to a correction over the last three years. Then the questions about the temporary rent discount. There weren't many of them. Mr Kox asked me if I could consider mitigating the effects of the catching-up increase. Allowing a catch-up rent increase removes the obstacle for landlords to grant that temporary discount. That is at the heart of the proposal. We want that discount to be given. If there is no catch-up increase, that discount will not be given. That is, of course, related to each other. In the House of Representatives it has been proposed to remove that increase in rentals from the proposal. When it is removed from the proposal or moderated, you automatically create an obstacle to what we want to achieve. Then landlords will be less likely to grant that temporary rental discount, because they know that it would actually become structural. I really think that temporary rental discount is important, because it helps tenants with payment problems, because they can be offered customised by their landlords. But I'll keep an eye on it. The House of Representatives has therefore asked for this and a motion on it has been adopted: the Terrstra motion. So I'd like to monitor and look at that effect. Then there was the question, too. I thought Mrs De Boer who put it on the Koerhuis amendment to this proposal. Mr Koerhuis has indeed tabled an amendment which makes it possible for tenants and landlords to agree to temporarily extend a rental contract during this period of time. That amendment has been tabled with this proposal. It does have effect at this time. Landlords and tenants who are in need of this because of corona can make use of this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u38	My question is mainly about the timing of things. I think that the previous possibility of temporary extension is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u39	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u40	The question is when this bill will come into force, so that this amendment will also come into force. What about that hole? How does this temporary extension fit the previous one? Is that gonna fit? If this bill comes into force on 1 July, I would like to mention what does the amendment still have practical significance? So my question is more about timing than about content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u41	I'm sorry, I wouldn't have quite understood. It's true what Mrs. De Boer says. The previous temporary emergency law ran until November last year. As far as I am concerned, this law should enter into force as soon as possible, but there is indeed, in a sense, a gap. If this Chamber agrees, the law could enter into force on 1 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u42	This amendment will therefore have a further three months' effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u43	This amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u44	I believe that the amendment implies that this possibility exists until 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u45	I thought it was a six-month extension, but let me check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u46	Perhaps you could say something about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u47	I'll tell you exactly what I'm gonna say later. Mr. Chairman. Then I can move on to the questions that have been asked about the freezing of rents. Mrs. De Boer asked me to reflect on the past period and the rent freeze. I remember, of course, as the day yesterday the Kox motion of 21 April last year, which asked for an overall rent freeze. A similar motion was tabled in the Lower House, which was not adopted. It has been for me how I could accommodate this Chamber, knowing that the House of Representatives was different. I'm not gonna go through all the details here again. The Chamber knows that I have chosen to try to give priority above all to the tenants with a high payment risk. I wanted to make a targeted rent reduction wherever possible. We finally managed to give 260,000 tenants a rent reduction; of course this Chamber was also pleased with that. That was close to 40 euros a month for these people. I think it was a very important step. I've made arrangements with landlords about customization in the prevention of home evictions. But the coronacisis continues. The House of Representatives has now adopted a motion to freeze the rents in the social sector. Well, that of course creates a new political reality. The motion was adopted at a time when I could inform the landlords in good time about the effects of the execution of this motion. It was known to them in good time so that they could take it into account. In addition, I think that is also an important argument that the cabinet has indeed, thanks to Mr Nijboer, opted for cover. Of course, you don't want that rent freeze at the expense of maintenance, construction, new construction and sustainability. In this way, I can at least ensure for the housing corporations that it does not have to have that effect. So much for the reflection that Mrs De Boer asked. There are a few specific questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u48	But Mr. Kox has the first question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u49	I don't run to the interrupting microphone all the time, not because I don't want to, but because I have it in my back. So I'm gonna sit here as long as I can. I've been working. You shouldn't do that as a politician. The Minister states that the rent freeze in the social sector is possible at the moment. That's good. I'm not very fond of the mea culpa; I've heard too much of that before in church. It's a good thing we're ready. The motion of this Chamber called for a temporary freezing of the rent for the entire sector. So the question to the Minister is: is there still room in it? The problem also applies to at least a large proportion of people in the free sector. I also asked a second question. We have adopted a motion here on the one-off rent reduction. The question was whether it would also have potential in the free sector. The question I asked in the first term is: how far has the Minister gone? The motion was left to judge Chamber and passed. So is there any development in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u50	Thank you. As Mr Kox himself says, the motion adopted in the House of Representatives calls for the freezing of rents in the social sector, not in the free sector. However, even with Mr Nijboer's own-initiative proposal, we are taking measures to improve affordability in the free sector. Think of the maximum rent increase, the temporary rental discount in the free sector and the maximum number of WZ points in the housing valuation system. That is, I think, a big step and an intervention in that market in the whole context, in the interplay. But in this way I think that we have gotten quite close together and that the First and Second Chambers have also gotten a bit closer together. I am glad for that, because I think it is important that we try to do what is good for the tenants and at the same time make sure that new construction is still taking place. Then there's the one-time rent cut in the free sector. I have indeed promised your Chamber to investigate whether that would be possible. My plan is to come back to this before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u51	Thank you for that last answer. I must point out to the Minister that there has been some inconsistency in her first reply. We did not agree on how the government should relate to both houses. It's possible. But the House of Representatives did not say that it was against a freeze on rent in the free sector. The House of Representatives had given a ruling. But now this Chamber has made its ruling: rent freeze, including for the free sector. I think the Minister could also get room in the House of Representatives for that. Isn't it worth looking into that at least? I know that it is more complicated to order a freezing of rent in the free sector than in the social sector. However, I would like to call on the Minister to examine whether these possibilities exist, so that the three-time motion adopted here can also take place in its full width, and not to say 'well, I have done quite a lot; it is so good'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u52	I admire Mr Kox for his perseverance; that has to be said. I actually thought that the First and Second Chambers would at least touch each other in the Beckerman motion. The Beckerman motion has been adopted, which I am implementing and which calls for a freeze on rent in the social sector. In addition, I am here today with Mr Nijboer, because the cabinet has agreed with the initiator on his proposal to substantially limit the maximum rent increase in the free sector. With these two elements we have come very close to what Mr Kox wanted. The overlap is indeed not 100%, but I think we have gotten very close. That's how I look at it. As I said, I promised the Chamber that I would investigate this one-off rent cut. I do. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u53	Mr. Kox, last meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u54	I do indeed like to insist, especially when I know that this Chamber has said three times: Madam Minister, we want a temporary freeze on rent for the whole sector. Now it is no longer on the table that the House of Representatives says that it is not allowed at all, I say: investigate the possibility of supporting the implementation of the motion on the other side. What needs to be maintained is that passed motions, especially in this house, should be carried out. So I am not saying that I will not therefore table a motion in the second term, and that you should do so now. But now it seems reasonable to ask you to ask, now that that barrier is gone, if the House of Representatives is okay with that. Then you can try to carry out the motion, at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u55	I'll tell you how I see it. I see two sets that didn't overlap. One was the Second Chamber and the other was the First Chamber. Now I can put those two sets together. Some of them overlap. That's the implementation of the Beckerman motion. This means that for the rest it does not necessarily overlap completely. But I think, when I go away from politics and look at policy again, that is why I always mention Mr Nijboer's initiative proposal that we have come a long way towards what Mr Kox wants. Again, this is the last debate before tomorrow's election. I think I'll come back to this Chamber more often than not. I would like to say that we are very close to each other at that moment. At least I cherish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u56	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u57	Mr. Chairman. I think I have already said a few things about compensation. So it is true: the cover of that is found in the BIK. It's coming in next year. Then you first get the BIK and then the envelope intended for future reliefs for companies to structurally cover the rent freezing, because it is of course about a structural series. Speaking of structural issues, Mr Crone also asked: is this a structural measure in the sense that there can be no catch-up increase? I will do it as follows: from 1 July to 30 June next year, I will set the rent increase to zero over the entire width by ministerial arrangement. This means that none of the tenants, including the students, will get a rent increase in the social sector. After this one-year freeze, the rent may indeed be increased again by the annual rent increase within the space set out in the ministerial arrangement for next year. As far as I'm concerned, that's how it is. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's a one-time freeze, but it's working. You'd normally expect that. That's what I wanted to say about the rent freeze. Then I'll go to the last part: other. First of all, Mr Kox's question has also been raised by others: are temporary contracts going to be the norm? That is a point which is also addressed in the Lower House, including by the party of Mr Kox and the Labour Party. I believe that Mr Crone has said something about this too. Mr Crone asked how the bill worked out. I'd like to go into that. This was also the subject of an amendment to the House Act review in the House of Representatives. That amendment was adopted. We are going to speak in this Chamber about the amendment of the House Act. I did not recommend the amendment referred to earlier in the House of Representatives, but it was accepted. I mean, that's how it goes. We must, of course, go through a proper process, but I can very well imagine that attention will be drawn to this from this Chamber. To be quite specific, Mr Crone asked in anticipation of the debate that we are undoubtedly going to have, how it works. The legislative proposal following the review of the Housing Act provides for the entry into force by component. We'll wait and see. I believe you will have a procedural meeting shortly. I suggest that if we deal with the bill, we come back to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u58	But I had also asked for a more political opinion from you, including on the Kox motion, which is now being taken over by that letter. The coalition, the VVD, I will now say it broadly, you have dropped, because Koerhuis is doing something here in violation of the electoral programs of CDA, D66 and Christian Union. These are all marvellous political movements, which I certainly do not charge you with, because you did not recommend this amendment. But that's got to do something to you, isn't it? You're trying to do your best. I have already praised you for the finish you are making here in a positive way, the final sprint, but I would like to hear a political opinion from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u59	I try to do what is possible and wise in all circumstances. The cabinet has become a missionary. At the moment when a cabinet becomes a missionary, the more or less mandatory cooperation in a coalition context is abandoned. Strictly speaking, there is no coalition from that moment on. But of course there is still the responsibility of the cabinet for all kinds of things, if the Chamber gives that space and has not declared it controversial. Then you try to do what is wise, but you have to accept, of course, that groups take a certain political space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u60	I hope that in the second term we will hear at least from CDA, Christian Union and D66 why they are already giving away things from their election programme before the elections. Today we are used to that happening the day after the elections, but this is something special. That, of course, has put the Minister in trouble. You were no longer bound by the coalition agreement, but it was not in the coalition agreement at all. I looked into it. There was nothing in the government agreement on free rentals and so on. You have now been put in your shirt, because you said "I'd advise against it" and there would be another evaluation. Minister Blok, whom I spoke to in the corridors because he had just had that debate here for Foreign Affairs, remember precisely: no, that temporary rents were for specific groups. I would therefore ask you, in the preparation of the legislative procedure, to carry out that evaluation in good time and to make it clear whether this is only for specific target groups, students in offices or whatever, or whether it has become a generic erosion of fixed rental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u61	Mr Crone is now partly asking for political groups through me. We'll find out in the second term. Again, I did not advise; I think I have been consistent in this. But in the end, I have to accept the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u62	One last meal, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u63	Do you expect the evaluation you announced to be completed in good time? That's also a question of research work, so maybe we can't, but I'd prefer to suspend the legal treatment until we have that evaluation. That is our task: careful legislation on the basis of facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u64	Careful legislation also means looking at what has landed here in this Chamber. Of course, you can always indicate whether you consider yourself sufficiently informed. But I do hope that we can talk to the Chamber soon about this bill. I also think it would be a good idea to have that debate with each other on the basis of all the questions put by you and the data I have. That's what I'm hoping for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u65	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u66	Mr Crone, Mr Pijlman and others raised some questions about the points system. There was also reference to a motion by Mr Van Eijs asking for an investigation into possible forms of rent regulation in the free sector. Of course, I hear everyone who asks for regulatory measures to keep the existing stock of middle rental homes affordable by regulating, among other things, the initial rental price. Then it's often about the housing valuation system and the question of whether you could go through with that. I have always said that you should always check whether it is not at the expense of investment in housing. Whether such measures should be taken, or, for example, to increase the liberalization limit, is, of course, a prime political question. I told you, this is a missionary cabinet. Tomorrow's elections, or they're actually already going on. I think that this really is a task for a formation table and a next cabinet. It is true that I am carrying out the Van Eijs motion. I identify the options and the consequences of different options in terms of rent regulation. I will also pay attention to the balance between the interests of tenants on the one hand and the willingness to invest in housing on the other. This study must be completed at least before the summer. I'll inform both chambers of progress. GroenLinks and the Labour Party asked about the bill of purchase protection and the landlord's permit. You may have seen that, when considering the amendment to the Housing Act, an amendment was also adopted to enable this protection to be applied. This amendment takes over the regulation of the legislative proposal that I gave in consultation, and actually overtaken it. The House of Representatives has been very energetic here and has ridden this by amendment in this bill. So that's going to speed up a little bit. That's actually good news. A question was also asked about countering malicious rental. We've done pilots in the big cities to limit these crooked practices, those house milkers and so on. I think Mr Pijlman said that Groningen is a good example. That's right. Several aspects that affect a landlord's permit are also part of it. The legislative proposal on this issue is now in preparation and could be consulted by the summer. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Van Hattem's question on priority allocation to asylum seekers. I have many discussions about housing status holders with my colleague from JenV, with the VNG and with the municipalities, as well as with the IPO and the provinces. Timely housing of status holders is, of course, in the interests of all of us, because this ensures faster integration, participation and therefore also a contribution to our society. The municipalities are mainly looking for a solution for status holders, but also for other target groups, in cooperation with the corporations. There are also other target groups that they need to work with. Think of the homeless, for example. Indeed, that mandatory urgency status no longer exists; it was already removed from the Housing Act in 2017. Municipalities have to a large extent their own hands in how they want to do that; it is really determined locally. But, yeah, they have to help. We must work together to ensure that the licence holders can be housed. In practice, this has led to the fact that, even though it is no longer legally necessary, most municipalities choose to do so, i.e. to consider the status holders as a priority category. That's their right and their choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u67	I hear the Minister say: it is their right to do so as a municipality. But I heard the Prime Minister of the cabinet of which this minister is a member say from the week to the municipalities that he wants to get rid of it. Now I ask the Minister: has this intention perhaps already been discussed in the Cabinet and does the Minister see opportunities for doing so? We're dealing with this Housing Act, which forces the municipalities to house all those status holders. Does the Minister see any possibility of getting rid of that? The way we now have to redistribute all asylum seekers across the municipalities is an unsustainable model. That just has to stop. In fact, as far as the PVV is concerned, we are stopping the asylum shelter altogether. But if the Prime Minister had such a policy idea, how did it land within the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u68	I just think the Prime Minister was speaking in his capacity as a list leader. As a member of the cabinet, of course, I have nothing to do with that. Mr Van Hattem often comes back to this subject. In practice, I work very well with Mrs Broekers-Knol, also member of the VVD, to find solutions for this together with the municipalities and the provinces. And as I said, the municipalities are massively choosing to treat this group as a priority category.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u69	Well, then it's clear. Then the Prime Minister's obligatory election talk was just before the election. After the election, we probably won't hear about it. Maybe his VVD colleague here will think otherwise, but I don't think so. I hear from the minister: the municipalities choose it themselves. No, those municipalities do not choose, because this is simply imposed on them by the Housing Act. We just notice that the waiting lists are getting longer and longer, that Dutch tenants need to be on the waiting list for longer and longer...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u70	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u71	...that fewer and fewer houses are available. When can we expect action from the minister to make houses available to the Dutch tenants rather than to those status holders, who now get that priority position every time through the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u72	There's gonna be another election debate later. So we can see if it's still on there. There's a shortage of homes. That affects a lot of people. That is what the debate is about today. There are many people who cannot find a place to live with them. There are people who don't have a home at all. There are people who have status when we talk about refugees and asylum seekers who cannot come out of the asylum shelter because there is no place for them. In short, there is a shortage. We have to try to fix that. Municipalities get to choose how they do it. It should no longer be the law and yet for most municipalities it is apparently the most practical and obvious to do so as they do with priority status.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u73	No, Mr. Van Hattem, you're not gonna get another answer. You tried twice. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u74	Mr. Chairman. I was working on the other category, so I'm going from the status holders to the mortgage interest deduction. So there is no logic behind it, but questions have been asked about it by GroenLinks and the OSF. Questions have also been asked about the effects of the measures. House prices are rising. That's obvious. That's obvious. What's that all about? Well, mostly due to low interest rates. People can borrow more for their homes. That has a price-raising effect. Of course, it is also due to the shortage of housing. This also leads to rising house prices. That leads to a difference between the people who can afford it and the people who can't afford it. Those high price increases are undesirable. The tax-friendly treatment of the home also has a price-driven effect in itself, but the reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction is against it, which again has a price pressure effect. But at the same time, because of that very low interest rate, we see what the reality is. In short, it works in different directions, but on balance there are currently more things that lead to higher prices than the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u75	I do not want to make it too faint, but the Minister is so clear that there are two reasons for this price increase, namely the deficit and the low interest rate. I assume she also agrees that climate policy should be very expensive. The gas-free homes for new construction also provide a stimulating price effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u76	Indeed, it was decided at the very beginning of this cabinet period by the Chamber that new buildings should be built without gas. This can indeed play a role in the new building. But there it is again a combination in the cut in the entire construction market that plays along. But I admit it certainly played along. The same applies, of course, to the effect of the nitrogen problem, which means that fewer permits have been issued, which means that less has been built. This in itself also leads to even more shortages and a price-raising effect. So indeed, those are factors that play a part. Then I think Mr Raven of the OSF said that it shouldn't all be in the Randstad, that there are a lot of other places in the Netherlands with many possibilities and that that would also be good for livingability. I think that's right. If you look at where the need exists, it is of course in the urban areas. Moreover, this need does not only exist in urban areas in the Randstad, as Zwolle is also an urban area where there is a need for living. Arnhem, Nijmegen, Groningen ditto. We are mainly trying to look at regions where we can realize many new homes. That's how I closed the housing deals. For example, we also do regional deals with Parkstad Limburg and with Zuidoost-Drenthe. So we are looking at the whole country, and we are also looking at the shrinking areas. The housing fund as we are now setting up, with the 450 million, is also specifically about border and shrinkage regions and about the restructuring of housing in the most vulnerable areas in our municipalities. So I very much agree with him that we need to take a very broad approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u77	Thank you for the answer. On the basis of Datawonenen and the data from the sheets, I found that for Zuid-Holland, Noord-Holland and Utrecht alone 0.5 million homes are already in the planning capacity. When we talk about the million for the next ten years, that's 50%. That is not really in balance with the rest of the Netherlands. You are suggesting that there are quite a few places to build, but we have proposed that we also look at the communities and, in particular, the cores, the villages. There's often a construction stop on that. Couldn't you add 5% or 10%? Then you have a larger distribution and then the Randstad is actually relieved, while you now see a planning capacity of 500,000 homes for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u78	We have to build so much for the next ten years. For the next ten years, we're actually talking about a million extra homes. Of course, the really large numbers will also be realized in the Randstad. You can see that now. Due to the scale of Rotterdam, Amsterdam and The Hague, many new homes can be built there. On balance, therefore, a large part of this will also be realised here. But much will also be achieved in the region. Those are the cities and the regions I just mentioned, and there are more that I know have very ambitious plans. I am certainly willing and interested in looking at these possibilities in the conversations I am having, and hopefully my successor will also be doing so if they are to be discussed further. We do, of course, want the planning capacity that is now available everywhere to be converted into real projects and housing. So I like the suggestion. This will be part of the talks I have with all the regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u79	I would like to draw attention once again to the research carried out by Maastricht University and RIVM on the viability aspects of the Randstad. This has shown that this is one of the difficult areas in Europe. If you're talking about "borders closed," you could also say that in the future we need to set a limit to the Randstad to save that area, because we should have lifeability and health at the top. With the extra burden on an area, as it is now planned, you can see that there is actually a controversy. We should split up more. I would like to hear from the Minister that she is more committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u80	In my opinion, there are also people who think that we should keep an eye on the viability of other parts of the Netherlands. I am also responsible for spatial planning through the National Environment Vision. In its development, we are actually doing much more on planning and spatial planning than we have done in the Netherlands for years. This is indeed about living, but also about accessibility, the energy transition and also about the point that Mr Raven is making about the viability of the whole country, and about what you should or should not do for it. It's all over the place. I get the point, but I don't think you can simplify it by saying that not building in the Randstad, and that somewhere else, by definition, is in favour of livingability. I believe that this has to do with many more factors, such as accessibility and the wishes of people themselves. Because where do people want to live? We do not know whether this corona crisis, the working at home and all the ways we have now to be productive without having to go to work if you have that type of work offer opportunities for what Mr Raven says. So I think it is wise to take this into account, but I do not think it can only be done on the drawing board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u81	Last time, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u82	I also asked a question about making use of it. It's about emptiness. This is a considerable investment in housing, but I do not see in your letter of 21 February that this is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u83	That's right. You asked that question and I did not prepare the answer to it by mistake. I will certainly come back to that in the second term. Mr Kox looked ahead to a new cabinet and perhaps a new Minister for Housing. I think he even mentioned a new ministry. That's not up to me. That should be decided in the formation and the new cabinet. I think we should focus on making sure that it is built, and not a new ministry, but just housing. That's what I think it takes. It is a major task: nearly a million homes in the next ten years. I think I've set up a few things. We know that working with the Housing Impulse works very well. I think that the Housing Fund for Restructuring is also a good step. The direction from the Empire together with the other governments and other parties to get more control over the actual realization of the plans is in any case what I can give to a next cabinet and a next minister. But what they get for title and exactly how they are supported is not up to me. In any case, I am leaving it to you that, as far as I am concerned, a flying start can be made. Mr. Pijlman asked about the housing impulse and the distribution between the cheaper housing, middle rent and purchase. I announced the second instalment of the Housing Impulse about a month ago. That is a contribution of 266 million. This concerns 30 projects, almost 45,000 homes, of which 67% are affordable. We evaluate this now and then we're on our way to a third tranche. I hope to be able to inform both Chambers about the outcome of the evaluation this month. It would be nice if we could learn lessons from the second tranche and then move on to the next one as soon as possible, so that we can build on it. Mr Pijlman also asked about the landlord levy and how we could deal with it. That's really something for the next cabinet. Of course, I have tried to prepare as many things as possible here too. I will also inform the Chamber shortly about the possibilities of restoring balance between tasks and resources. We simply know that the housing corporations face a huge challenge. We know that in the longer term they will no longer have investment capacity with the landlord's tax, so it will be eroded. I think that at the formation table a knot must be cut, but it is no longer up to me to do so. Mr Van Rooijen asked what corporations in the middle rent can do for households whose income is rising. The corporations still have a lot of money in the non-DAEB section. This can of course be used to build for the low middle incomes; therefore, rental homes for people with those incomes. If that succeeds, it will of course also promote the flow. That would be a good thing. That is why I am pleased that we can suspend the market exploration, at least for three years. This is again part of the amendment to the Housing Act which we hope to discuss here shortly. The rent reduction for tenants of... I'm sorry, I've already had it. I'm already running it. No, I meant the Beckerman motion on the Nibud's investigation. I have already said that we want to further examine the financial situation of tenants. That was also requested here by Mr Crone. That motion by Mr Beckerman is actually asking that question. So we're gonna do that and that's gonna be done by the summer. Then I can inform both Chambers about that. So that'll come back. Finally. Mrs De Boer asked about the regulation and maximisation of the shares of the WPA value and the intended date of entry into force. The general measure of governance with which this is determined depends on both chambers. The entry into force therefore depends on the treatment in both Chambers, but I would like it to take effect on 1 October. The housing corporations also informed me that this would be workable for them. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered all the questions that the Chamber has asked me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u84	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the second term of office. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs De Boer. Just a minute. I have to set the clock and I can't do it yet. I'll just give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u85	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I've got a sound now, too. Thank you for that last answer, because I can now cross that off my list of questions that have not yet been answered. I would also like to thank you for the answer on the income limit and the fact that what is regulated in the law and what is regulated in the ministerial regulation. I looked into it and I had indeed confused those two income limits. In this respect, we are also reassured that it is well arranged, so that it is not going to be increased for the singles. I can say that our questions have been answered satisfactorily. I must also say that I like the tone of the debate and what is to come, so how everyone is in the game. As far as that's concerned, what comes last is fine. Let's put it this way. But I would also like, with Mr Nijboer, to endorse once again that it is still necessary and still remains to work structuralally to improve the affordability of social and middle rents. In addition to building, building, building in these sectors, we are also concerned with abolishing the landlord's tax, allowing rental permits, buying-in protection, regulating tourist rentals, maximising the share of the WPA value and thus also extending the points system. I am pleased that the Minister has agreed to at least ensure that the investigation requested by the House of Representatives on the Van Eijs motion is there before the summer and that steps are taken. I also heard her say: I leave it so that a flying start can be made. I think that was about the construction assignment. But I hope the Minister will carry that through to all these files. I also hope that it will be ready, even if there are dossiers on which legislation can no longer be introduced, so that that flying start can be made by a next cabinet. I think that room for this room should be taken. We can't lose six months in which to form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u86	Mr. Van Hattem has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u87	I hear Mrs De Boer from GroenLinks talking about regulating tourist rental. Maybe the other way around: does GroenLinks also see opportunities in expanding the possibility of living permanently on recreational parks? Of course, this can also give some air to the housing sector in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u88	That's a whole different debate, Mr. Van Hattem. I'd like to have that with you some other time. We see very limited opportunities for this. That depends on where it is. But we do not see that as the solution to the housing problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u89	That is a pity, because as PVV we do see opportunities there. Hundreds of homes can become available at such a park, which now often go to migrant workers. The Dutch can also live there with great pleasure. So there are also opportunities to solve the housing problem at least. Too bad GroenLinks doesn't want to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u90	Mrs. De Boer, your time was up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u92	I now give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u93	Thank you, Madam President. It looks good. All the beginnings of this kind of thing are difficult. I remember once I had to fill in in the big room. I didn't understand anything about these buttons, so in that respect, our new Vice-President, our first Vice-President, is making great strides, Mr Van der Linden. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Boer said: let us note in particular that structural work must be done to make rentals in this country affordable. That's the big problem that I think we all agree on. No matter how you feel about investigations, if the Nibud finds that one in four tenants is somehow financially stuck, then we have a problem. If we're short on so many properties, and the prices keep rising, we all have a problem. It is up to all of us to find a solution. That's easier said than done, I'll say. I appreciate the Minister's efforts to get things moving, as she said. Her successor doesn't have to start from scratch, but will have a big job anyway. Housing has once again become one of the highest priorities on the political agenda, and that is good. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to address our colleague, Mr Nijboer, who told us that he belongs to the happy side of the Labour Party. I knew there had to be one of them on the bright side. But he is also on the effective side of the Labour Party. He is known as a passionate spokesperson, including in the area of housing, but also in many more areas. And he's done it anyway to get a bill passed in the Lower House, telling us honestly that he didn't get everything he wanted, but that this was feasible. He also received the Minister's support. I can say that he will also receive the support of our group in this Chamber. It must be strong if there are any groups here that are going to vote against this bill, but we will see that next week. The Minister said she wholeheartedly supports the bill. I think that's a win. At first, she had a different proposal. I find it brave if the Minister and the Government dare to say that this proposal is better and more politically sensible under these circumstances; let us do so. I have already said that I am less happy about the two legislative proposals put forward by the Minister today. We're still getting the results of the Terrstra motion. We'll see what's going on with the law on the temporary rent discount and the catch-up rent increase, but I don't think that's a great piece of a bill. We will say next week how our group is going to vote on this. On the income limits relating to access to corporate housing, the Minister says: this is the maximum I can do if I take into account the rules of the European Union. At the same time, there is a statement by the Council of State saying: where are the alternatives for the group that is just above them? If there are no alternatives, they may be listed with corporations. We come to talk about this even further, even when the investigation of the Nibud is done. My group will also be discussing this. We'll decide what to vote next week. Finally, Mr President. Nine months ago, I tabled a motion rejecting the Minister's tenancy policy because an urgent request from this Chamber was not filled by the Minister to the satisfaction of this Chamber. That was not good for the relations between government and parliament. A motion rejecting policy is not one of the standard activities of this Chamber. This room thought it was necessary. It was a motion in which not only the lease policy was rejected, but also an order was given to do what this Chamber wanted in any way. We gave freedom to the minister and said: the minister should not resign but act. The Minister promised to give effect to that motion in her own way. She's done it one step at a time. As Mr Crone said, the finish line looks good. If the Minister transfers her portfolio to a successor, will he ask: Madam Secretary, is there anything else in the closet I should know? Then the Minister must say: yes, there is still a motion from the First Chamber that says that there must be a temporary rent freeze for the social sector, which I have realized, but also for the free sector, which still needs to be realized; that remains. If the successor asks whether the motion of censure is still in place, my opinion is that other groups who voted for it at the time should say so themselves that the motion of censure is now off the table. The Minister has, in her own way, fulfilled a broad wish of this Chamber. There's been a stop in the social sector. At least, thanks to Mr Nijboer, there has been a significant reduction in rent increases in the free sector. A number of other measures have been taken. To say that this policy is still being rejected would not be fair. If this Chamber is hard to reject by policy, it must also be consistent and say: at the moment when the Minister has met the wishes of the Chamber to a large extent, the motion of censure may be sent to the archives and the museum. But once again, Madam Minister, that is the opinion of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u94	I thank Mr Kox for all his efforts on this dossier. I am grateful to him for that. But before he wants to permanently squander this motion of censure if this policy is implemented in this way: if the rents are still increased with the catching-up hires, does this mean that the motion of censure can still remain in the trash? Or should we be clear about the fact that these rent increases remain out of the picture even for the slightly longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u95	I didn't suggest putting the motion in the trash. I rather think it should be framed, because it is a rather special motion in this Chamber. 145 years had to pass before we find its predecessor. The question is not whether the Minister is doing everything my group or this Chamber wants. The question is whether the Minister reasonably responded to the motion we supported by a large majority at the time. I think this can be said now. We had the motion on child poverty shortly before. It took us three years in this room. The government had trouble implementing it. Eventually, Mrs. Van Ark, then Secretary of State, came here. Then we all noticed: she does not do exactly what we want, but what she has done is good. Here we have used our hardest means: a motion of censure. I therefore believe that it is fair that if the Minister, assisted by the Chamber and the initiator, ultimately responds reasonably to our wish... Our demands will then remain on the table, but we will be able to get rid of the disapproval. That's, I think, fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u96	I hear Mr Kox saying two things. He says, "You can get rid of the disapproval." But he wants to frame it anyway. Once a motion has been adopted here, it will indeed be framed until the end of the day. Then we can still look at it in 143 years, or at least our successors. But my point is this. He says, "You can get rid of those demands." Is it enough that there is now, even with that law temporary rent discount? It actually has a very limited scope. The Minister has indeed met the Chamber, but is this really enough for the SP? Or are we not going to have a much larger rent increase, with possibly all these sustainability measures, and should we not be able to avoid that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u97	That is what we are going to debate with this minister or her successor, but this was about the fact that this Chamber really wanted something at a specific point, namely a temporary freezing of rents, and the Minister said: I really do not want to do that. That led to the rejection of that part of its policy. That part of its policy has been adjusted and improved. We now have a rental stop for 2.3 million tenants. We also have a firm rent restriction........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In doing so, the Minister responded reasonably to the criticism of this Chamber. I also said on behalf of all the authors at the time: this Chamber has no right of amendment, so we do not say exactly how to do it. The Minister is about the interpretation, but it had to be so that it fit in with what we wanted. On all these other points, Mr Van Hattem, we will have discussions with this minister or the successor. Then we will often say whether or not we agree with it, depending on the government that is sitting there. I would just like to say before the elections on a day-by-day basis that if the Minister finally meets to a reasonable extent what this Chamber wanted at that time, nine months ago, it is fair that this Chamber should say: thank you, Minister, that is well done, so the relations have been cleared up and the disapproval can be put away, but not forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u98	Mr. Van Hattem, last meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u99	Yes, briefly, Mr. Chairman. To be honest, I still think it is rather limited. A step has indeed been taken, but I think it is a small, late and difficult step. That is whether or not that motion is off the table, because that is not at all a matter of state law. But there are still a lot of steps to be taken. I hope we can at least agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u100	A rent freeze for 2.3 million people and a rent restriction for 1 million tenants, together 3.3 million tenants, residents of this country, with everything that comes with family, I would not qualify as "a small step." It wasn't for this room either. That is why we strongly insisted that the Minister should finally do what we wanted. Then when she does, I don't say, "I'm stubborn with my old opinion." No, I say thank you, Madam Minister, it's good that it happens this way, so let's look forward. This dossier can be closed at that point, but there are many other areas that we will have to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u101	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u102	Mr. Chairman. The curfew has already entered, for this spokesperson tonight for the fourth time since the beginning of January, eight weeks ago. Who could have guessed? Firstly, I come to Mr Nijboer's own-initiative proposal. I almost said "colleague" Nijboer. Times go by, but they don't go by completely. We wholeheartedly support his own initiative proposal and think it is particularly important, as has also been recalled, that the Minister supports this initiative. That doesn't always happen, or it doesn't always. We also support the other two legislative proposals. Then I come to the Van Otterloo amendment, which was rejected in the House of Representatives. Moreover, there was strong support in the House of Representatives for that amendment: 60 votes. That's not nothing. But it was rejected. There was an exception for AOWs in the income-dependent increases. Unfortunately, that exception for AOW-ers has been removed from the draft law. The reasons for this did not convince the Lower House and part of the Lower House, but neither did our group in this Chamber. The Minister seems to assume that I mentioned it this afternoon already the income of AOW'ers is rising. I'm not going to adjudicate that again. That's what I did this afternoon. This increase in income is to some extent an illusion. The Minister then points out the unequal treatment she sees and also talks about AOW's with a large supplementary pension. Let's not talk about that at this time of night. But what is called a high income for AOW'ers is, for the rest of society, a moral income. That is what we call unequal treatment. Mr President, therefore a motion on that exception. The: Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the exception of the AOWs in respect of the income-dependent rent increase is deleted by the present legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas the present legislative proposal spends an increasing proportion of AOW and pension on housing costs;]] [[Whereas in the absence of indexation, AOW'ers have lost more of their AOW to housing costs;]] [[Whereas maintaining the exemption position of AOWs reduces the burden;]] [[calls on the Government to re-introduce the deleted exception income-dependent rent increase for AOW'ers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35518-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u103	Finally, I would like to address the Minister. Last year, with this motion of censure and debate, I have had to endure a hurricane in politics for quite some time, as I call it in my words. But she has gradually found the way to move forward with this First Chamber. That is, of course, the first task that a cabinet, a minister, has with Parliament: look to the future and try to pull it together. The image I'm just sketching here, at least she's leaving us. I hope that this is an inspiration for the new cabinet, but also for it, especially on the eve of the elections. Thank you very much. I also share Mr Kox's point, and it is in line with what I have said that this motion is now off the table as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u105	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiator, Mr Nijboer, on his legislative proposal. I hadn't done that in the first term. Passionately he defended his initiative in the first term, literally at the finish line of the old House of Representatives. I have just seen the latest polls: I think we will see Mr Nijboer again after the elections. I asked three questions in the first term, about inflation versus the rise in house prices. Aren't we creating the crooked people of the future? The answer was clear: three years is of course a limited time and has a limited impact. So, no, that's probably not gonna have an effect in the long term. There's gonna be another evaluation. About the definition of inflation, the minister indicated that the buyer of a property has nothing to do with inflation on the value of the property. Of course, that's true. It is only about inflation on costs. I'm sure they're back in indexing. Then there is the second point: municipalities that want to get to work on this customization. I made this point because I also noticed that there is a lot of ignorance, especially in small and medium-sized municipalities. The big cities have this under control. Handhelds on how this can be made effective are important. This has also been demonstrated by the previous customisation. That 10% hasn't really been used very much. So it is very good that the minister talks with the VNG about clear communication about what municipalities can effectively do. Then the third point: the crooked habitation. How real is this flow in the current market and what about the risks to social cohesion? The Minister indicated that it was about appropriate rentals and not necessarily about flow. That's right, of course. That incentive is there, but in this challenging housing market many crooked residents will prefer to live over a non-found or much more expensive home. According to the Minister for Social Cohesion, the Labour Party and GroenLinks have agreed to invest in vulnerable neighbourhoods. Investing in urban areas is, of course, something that we have also discussed with the Minister. I owed GroenLinks a response on the number of homes that go to status holders. The IND is currently working on a backlog in housing 15,000 status holders. About 2021, it is a number of 27,000, including many single households. Municipalities say the alarm clock; think about Zaanstad and its surroundings for a recent example. The VNG calls it an unexecutable, almost impossible task. The CBS has calculated that 134,000 status holders with a temporary residence permit have been in a social rental house since 2014. Of course, these are not 134.000 houses, but it is almost equal to one year of new buildings. So these are significant numbers. In the debate in the first term, it was striking that 50PLUS attacked the VVD about the housing crisis, which would come through the cabinet. No, the VVD said we should point to the local government. D66 thought that was too easy: it wasn't the local government. After the elections, it should be different: building, building, building. You hear a lot of slogans like that in this house. In the first term I referred to Elsevier Weekblad with a comment about the Minister. That article starts with the conclusion: you can't open a newspaper or a magazine or it's about the housing crisis; why aren't they just built? Elsevier made a tour of those directly involved, all blaming each other. That's also a bit of the picture I get from politics. It's exemplary. There were fine words about long-running cooperation within the Labour Party, referring to former Secretary of State Jan Schaefer, with the quote: you can't live in bullshit; go build houses. That sounds like a nice call for a new cabinet. I have already studied the motion tabled by the PVV and discussed it with my group. I'll say two things about it. One. The motion calls for action on the part of municipalities, but we are in favour of local freedom of choice. However, we agree with Mr Van Hattem that it is not working very well now. I also live in one of those municipalities where the Prime Minister or the leader of the VVD may call 'I want to get rid of it', but where the local VVD simply votes against the deletion of that urgency status. The motion to delete that urgency is actually a step too late in the process. The obligation to redistribute municipalities remains, but it must stop, otherwise they will have to house people somewhere. If they don't, the Empire's gonna kick their asses. And if you did, that would lead to overcrowded azc's. The real solution is less net immigration, but, of course, politically we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u106	Thank you for the support of the Nanninga Group for this motion. I would like to point out that this step must indeed be taken, but that the operative part of the motion therefore refers to'measures' in the broad sense of the word. It can therefore be linked to the fact that the inflow is also limited or completely closed, as far as the PVV is concerned. It is indeed also important to take measures in the Housing Act. The appeal to the cabinet is therefore to draw this as broad as possible, but since the Prime Minister has currently talked about that step towards municipalities on priority, that is the first step. To eventually get there, you do need to take some more steps. But let that be part of those necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u107	I don't hear a question here, Mr. Van Hattem. You could have used your second term for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u108	It's a matter of taking measures; I just indicated it. The call could also be for restrictions on immigration. That is what we are for, but I think that is what the elections are about. Then I would also like to table a motion in the second term, which is linked to the subject, but which is not on the rent. It's a motion to help buyers a little. We've known the grant exemption for a number of years now. Parents who have spared some, can...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u109	Your time is almost up, so I would suggest that you do so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u110	I'm gonna do my best. We would like to table a motion to widen or at least make the grant exemption fairer, because you cannot always use the maximum amount for old years. The: Mr Van der Linden, Mr Berkhout, Mr Beukker, Mr Van Wely and Mr Frentrop proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that since 2017, parents have been allowed to give €100,000 (indexed) tax-free to their children for the purchase, remodeling and/or renovation of their own home;]] [[Considering that for parents who only partially made use of this option in 2017 and 2018, it is not possible to provide additional support to their child in 2021 and beyond up to the maximum amount exempted;]] [[Whereas housing market conditions have since become more challenging, especially for start-ups;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine, before the Tax Plan 2022, how the system of tax-free donations of parents to children for the purpose of a purchase house can be adapted in such a way that parents who have only partially benefited from this scheme in previous years can still make an additional donation under the same conditions up to the maximum exemption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35518-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u111	So this is a little support for parents who want to support their children in that challenging housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u112	Does Mr van der Linden realize that this arrangement makes it even more difficult for people who do not have parents who can give it to get a home? This drives the price up; we all know that. In a tight offer the price is determined by the providers. They can ask what they want. This is at the expense of those who, for whatever reason, have not been able to save.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u113	I don't see why that would be at their expense. I just suggested in the motion that it could be used for several possibilities for the home, for the relief of the mortgage and also for the renovation. So that bet is very wide. I don't think that's at the expense of other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u114	Perhaps you can check that again, but less than 5% of citizens have more than €10,000 savings at all. So 95% have no savings to give to children. And that 5% drives up prices, making it even more expensive to buy. Those are facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u115	Then I hear Mr Crone of the Labour Party actually say here that he is opposed to this grant exemption scheme. I can understand that politically. The motion, but I had to shorten the motivation a little because time was running out. That arrangement is now as follows. Did you use that for part of child one four or five years ago? If you want to do that again and if you haven't done that for the maximum amount, you can do it now for child two for the maximum amount and not for child one for that previous amount. We propose that we try to match that. We propose that we examine how to make that right, so that you can at least grant up to that maximum amount, just as you can do with a recent donation. So we're in favour of making that a little bit more honest, so that something you've done in the past isn't lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u116	Clear. Mr. Crone, last meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u117	Surely it can never be fair that a party says that 5% of people are going to get better and that they can buy even better houses at the expense of 95% that have to pay a higher price, because the market price is going to increase? You can never say that it is fairer and certainly not equal, as you keep saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u118	I think that Mr Crone should read the statement of reasons in the motion for a resolution again. What he is acting on here as the Labour Party, I think, is that there should be no grant exemption at all. I understand that, too. We differ politically on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u119	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Hattem of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understood that the list leader of D66, Mrs Kaag, was not able to see it tonight in the election debate, unfortunately, but I did get some information about an opportunity crisis. That crisis of opportunity is something we see tonight in these legislative proposals, namely a crisis of opportunity for our tenants. There are too high rents, too high rents and too few homes for our Dutch tenants. Then I come back to what Mr Jan Latten, the former head of the CBS Democrat, said: the link between immigration and housing shortage is not structurally established. I would have liked to have seen a view of the Minister on that link between immigration and housing shortage. Because what we are seeing is, I have often said here that instead of housing people, there is still housing. We need to get rid of that. Otherwise, it's just not affordable and it's not possible to house our people. It also states that there must be an increase in rent, as one of the legislative proposals states, as an incentive to flow through. Where? What possibilities are there? As far as PVV is concerned, there must be a flow, but it must come from another sector. Then there must be a flow of status holders who are now housed here, for example Syrians who can safely return to Syria. They must be given an incentive to re-emerge to Syria, so that those rental homes can be released and we can house our people there again. For example, we also see it in the azc's. In Burgum, in Friesland, a complete residential area is being built for asylum seekers. Those are brand new, beautiful, large houses and our own Dutch people have checked. As an alternative, go to the azc Budel. That's 90 acres. Some 1,500 asylum seekers are now being received there. On 90 hectares, homes can be realized for our Dutch people, affordable homes, rental homes, where our Dutch house seekers can go. The same applies to the problem of migrant workers. Large-scale complexes are now being set up everywhere. Make sure that there is affordable construction for our Dutch tenants and especially lower the rents. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to these legislative proposals. I have already pointed it out: it is actually too little there is now. Mr Kox may be very satisfied with the proposals, but as PVV we say: we really have to do everything we can to reduce the rents for our Dutch tenants. Because the rents have risen too much in recent years. People just pay way too much and way too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u121	This is an endless whirlwind, repeated weekly and in which groups are set against each other. You said just now by interrupting: we want to get rid of the reception of asylum seekers. I expressly distance myself from that. I find it unworthy, but you are bringing in a new aspect. These are the migrant workers, for which a large part of the economy is very much in need. I understand they can't be built for that anymore. What do you want? What are these people who do work here on invitation that other people don't like, sleep and live for? I find it scandalous how they are often housed, but you do not think they should be taken care of at all. Are you saying that the borders should also be closed to migrant workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u122	Since we are dealing with this Bolkestein Directive, this Services Directive, we have a perfide earning model. It's just that it's made way too easy to bring that migrant in. Indeed, Mr... er...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u123	Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u124	... Pijlman "Sorry" "Sorry" "Sorry" says that conditions are often bad, but now office complexes are often converted for mass housing of migrant workers. There we can also place homes for Dutch house seekers. The biggest problem is that it undermines our economy, because we see large-scale XXL block boxes being placed in the landscape in places where houses can also be built. There, massively, often under poor conditions, migrant workers are employed. That doesn't contribute anything to our economy. Against far too low a reward, these people are put to work. This is simply not an effective way of building up a labour market and economy. That's what's bothering us. It costs us space, it costs us our economy and it also costs us a lot of trouble for the living environment. We can do that much better and more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u125	Clear. Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u126	Yes, it is clear: it is also over with the migrant workers for the PVV. They won't get in either. You should ask nearby in the Westland what the growers think of that, for example. Anyway, I get your point of view now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u127	We can also use a lot of Dutch job seekers for this. That is much more efficient and better for our system. But again, we just need to make sure that our Dutch tenants are covered. If this is to be dealt with weekly, I will continue on a weekly basis, because every week people also run into too many and too long waiting lists for social housing in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u128	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr Crone from the PvdA Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both rulers, prospective executives, for their generous answers. I had asked in the group: can I say that I have known Henk Nijboer for a long time and that we appreciate each other and so on, or is that too personal? But luckily, he brought it up himself without me knowing, so now I have to respond. He made a mistake for a year, because I've known him a year longer. He was just a high school student back then. He said: I have to write a thesis on the Stability Pact; can I come visit you sometime? I was then financial spokesman in the Lower House. I always liked that. Then you sit for 15 minutes chatting about the content and another half hour and then you think: how nice! But I had to bring in all my knowledge of the Stability Pact for an hour, because he knew more about it than I did, which I can admit by now. Then I thought, "Oh, my gosh!" But it got much worse because of what he said then himself. At the Congress of the Labour Party in December 2001, Wim Kok had just said: I'm leaving in August. Then Henk Nijboer came up with a lot of departments behind him, young, enthusiastic and charming: that mortgage interest must finally be removed! The congresses always go down for young, enthusiastic people and he also had arguments. At that time, Melkert was the candidate for the list. Suppose Melkert had to defend this and lost. Chef's gone, Melker's on the bake and the mortgage interest's gone. That drama wasn't allowed to happen to the PvdA. Then I had to be 50 years old; I was no longer 18 against this young enthusiast. I only just won it, with a maximum of 20 or 30 votes difference. How much the world had changed, not because of 9/11 and the departure of Kok, but because fortunately this debate just ended well. Anyway, I really appreciate Henk and what he's been doing all these years since. Some people are an early talent and fortunately they have remained so for a long time. I therefore very much appreciate him, and I also support the draft law, following the great embrace of Mr Kox and others in this Chamber. This is a fantastic bill in which you see enthusiasm, quality and therefore even support throughout the Chamber, both here and on the other side. Of course, I appreciate that. He has also been very open and honest: actually there could have been more; what rate is good? Moreover, I do not think that rates close to inflation or anything up there are so crazy. You assume that a rental price is a market price and that you can adjust it annually to increase costs, because they are there for maintenance. This approach to inflation is quite normal in the market. It's not a normal market, but I don't think it's so bad. You can find everything too high, but then you might undermine the long-term development and quality of housing. So I didn't think it was that crazy. Of course, there are some backdoors. You still have those temporary leases, interim rent increases, the tourist rentals and Airbnb. There is no point system yet. There's no permit yet. Anyway, Rome wasn't built in one day. I think it is a very fundamental breakthrough that is being said in the Chamber: you must also have the courage to intervene in this private sector. I say, as a market-socialist, you have to be a market-master. The backdoors will be followed in the future. Now we are not getting any further, but once again very much congratulations. Today let the alderman in The Hague, Martijn Balster, have announced that he will introduce the following: no new housing in 23 neighbourhoods, a buy-back ban unless you are going to live there yourself, and a broad rental permit. And now let him come out of the same talent class as Henk Nijboer. The revolution begins again where it once began. I therefore very much appreciate this young, sympathetic applicant and his quality of support. The minister immediately said I knew her a long time ago. That's true, too. That enthusiasm is all over again. I wondered: can you actually withdraw that motion of censure? You can't arrest her because you already did. You can't move her in either. I'd say we put her in the closet. If you are going to tell your successor "I'm done, because she's in the closet, but if you're not doing well as a successor, they'll probably get her out in the First Chamber" we'll keep the tension in. But you're done; I totally agree. I said it myself in my first term: you're making a great finish, of course, because you're doing all the things you couldn't or shouldn't have done before, or you didn't want to, but the coalition has taken you hostage in. As a Houdini you have now freed yourself from the chains, by the way, in six cases helped by Henk Nijboer and others. So I would say: go together but that Minister of Housing will play in the next coalition. Divide the tasks somehow. I'm sure you'll get a lot of support from this Chamber. There are still a few questions to the Minister, but not so many. The Council of State has also said something about the sweet and sourness of the income line and the skews in a single draft law. That was not my point; that is what they have said. You do not have to go back, but I think I would advise my group to agree to this, because I think it is a little more important to broaden the income threshold for households. In principle, we are not necessarily opposed to crooked people paying a little more. It's a happy single sentence. It is a difficult balance, so I do not know what my group is doing, but perhaps it should be possible. The temporary rental discount, the rent freeze, is of course neatly covered with the BIK. Of course, Mr Nijboer and I, across the street and I, have also fought for this. We said: what kind of strange measure is that? I am glad that the VVD has finally admitted something at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u130	Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u131	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost at the end. What I still think is important: the Koerhuis motion will, of course, come back here in all respects. I hope the Minister heard me when I said: put on the table as much argument as possible why you dissuade it. That is what I mean in terms of content: what people have the disadvantage and benefit of this? I believe that the electoral parties D66, CDA and Christian Union will then adhere to their electoral programme and regret supporting that motion. Then they'll be free again, because then there'll be a new coalition. I want to conclude with that. Maybe I'll wake up on Thursday in the situation that this coalition is just gonna keep going. But Einstein said, if you do what you did, you get what you had. The last few weeks have been good, but I hope this coalition will say: let's bring Henk Nijboer in. And then you get the PvdA gift. Thank you for your commitment, both of you. We'll see. But at least we're gonna support this next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u132	Thank you. You referred, of course, to Mr Koerhuis' amendment. You said, "Movement House."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u133	Amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u134	Yes, the amendment. Mr Rietkerk of the CDA Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Nijboer's own-initiative proposal. For the sake of clarity, I can go along with all the fine words that have already been said. Thanks for the answers, too. As a CDA group, we remain in favour of the initiative proposal and we will support it wholeheartedly. I would also like to thank the Minister for her answers. I'm going to ask you a few questions on one topic. This has to do with the implementation aspects, which we must examine here as the First Chamber. It is about the Climate Agreement and its impact in relation to these legislative proposals. In many places, housing corporations can already make tens of thousands of homes more sustainable, and I quote a number of things from the Climate Agreement on the condition that the monthly rent and the energy bill together do not increase. For example, tenants get a better home against the same or lower monthly expenses. In consultation with the Woonbond, agreements are made for all options regarding the guaranteeing of the residential expense neutrality for the tenants. In order to support, for example, heat grids, interested parties often aim locally for a good facilitation of tenants. On this basis, Aedes will indicate which part of these dwellings can be preserved within the financial possibilities and the indication of the housing corporations concerned, and for which part there is such an uneconomic summit that implementation is not possible. I think Aedes is talking to your ministry about this. The CDA Group notes that the Climate Agreement talks about removing this uneconomic summit: situations in which building owners face, without additional measures, the financing costs of the conversion, which are significantly higher than the savings on the energy bill. The CDA Group asks the Minister whether the legitimate restrictions on rent increases, this legislation, increase this uneconomic summit. Does the Minister consider it possible, if necessary, to extend the arrangements for the removal of these uneconomic peaks? In addition, the CDA Group concludes that the Climate Agreement indicates that Aedes and the government are engaged in further discussions on a part with such an uneconomic summit that implementation is not feasible, for example, that the removal of natural gas from homes does not succeed. Has that been discussed? And can you tell me about the results of that? Finally. The CDA Group notes that the precarious situation on the Dutch housing market................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is done through these legislative proposals. The CDA Group also believes that the agreements contained in the Climate Agreement on the sustainability of housing are of great importance. Could the Minister provide a more detailed explanation of the relationship between the agreements of the Climate Agreement, their implementation, and the legislative proposals in question? If so, when can we see it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u136	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Build, build, build and live affordable. This will be one of the tasks of the new cabinet. If you look at the debate a bit from a distance today, you will see that the cabinet is increasingly intervening in an over-liberal market. And if you look over the past year, you'll see that most political parties have also moved on a huge scale. That's what you hear from the reactions, for example from the Minister. I hope that movement continues. As far as we are concerned, that would also mean that at least a large part of the landlord's tax should be removed, so that we can also give the housing corporations the impetus we all want to give. We are very excited about the housing impulse. You have just said that in the first tranche 60% was built for the people with the lowest incomes. In the second tranche, this has already increased to 67%. I hope we can look forward to the evaluation soon. Mr. Chairman. I thank Henk Nijboer for his fun and enthusiastic way of answering. I asked him what's going on. The temporary scheme is available for three years, but temporary arrangements also want to be established. He answered that question by saying that I had made a plea to secure it as well. But I didn't say that directly. After three years, I think it really depends on the circumstances. I could imagine it, but it depends on the circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u138	Do you think about time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u139	Yes. I would ask the Minister to say that we too can receive the evaluation contained in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u141	I answered earlier about the starting rents. I owe one more answer to Mr Crone. This is about the Koerhuis amendment. Was that wise? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u142	That was a clear and brief answer. Mr Raven of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister and also to Mr Nijboer for his reply. I had indeed not asked a question about your draft law, so the initiative proposal, but that is actually a compliment. That is the way you should consider it, because if there are no further questions, everything is clear. It is also a good thing. I have also concluded my contribution in the first period that it is a necessary correction, just like both other proposals that are before us today. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I particularly zoomed in on the letter from the Minister of 21 February last. That letter was called Middle Segment Living Opportunities. I understand from the VVD Group that it has been examined whether my contribution is appropriate to what is going on here today. I think it's appropriate. Perhaps you have not taken note of the content of the letter, but a number of these matters do have a direct connection with what is being discussed here today. In that letter, building is a main theme. We have explained this and the Minister has explained it. Also the designing and keeping of houses affordable is a theme. I have made a plea to add: use. So take another look at that empty position. After all, it is quite a number of homes that are empty, and that could be part of the policy we are pursuing. In particular, the vacancy of more than 12 months is substantial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u144	Do you think about time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u145	Yes. At the same time, I have called for attention to be paid to the redistribution of, in particular, new housing. Look at it in a broader context. Look at it all over the Netherlands and don't just look at the Randstad. The Randstad is already overloaded and the villages and cores are threatening to become non-viable in the future. They're gonna need backup. It can lead to a positive result in both cases if we do not do something on the one hand that we do on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u146	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van der Burg of the VVD Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u147	Mr. Chairman. First, to Mr Raven: no, my reaction was to the fact that you advocated less housing in the Randstad. That's a way of thinking that's hard for me to make myself. Having said that, Mr President, I note that I have only been a member of the First Chamber for two years and that I do not have as much experience as Mr Kox, who was already in the First Chamber when I was playing with blocks. But in those two years I have experienced many debates, both with ministers and with initiators. You can see that initiators are often a little more enthusiastic than ministers, because it is really their law, which they have worked hard on themselves. But the way Mr. Nijboer defended his law today is one to run through a ring. If things don't go well here, you have to say it, and if things go well here, you have to say it. It was a pleasure to listen to Mr Nijboer. Too bad we can't do it more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u148	Thank you. Well, those seem to me to be wonderful words to the initiator. A few questions have been asked. Can you answer it right away, Minister? Yeah, I see. There are no questions for Mr Nijboer. In the meantime, I would like to ask whether one of the Members would like to speak in the second term. That is not the case. Then the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u149	Mr. Chairman. There were a few questions after all. There were also, if I have counted correctly, three motions, on which I naturally like to respond in second term. There were also a few questions that I left behind in the first term or which I would come back to, so I will do that first. Then I will pass by the speakers and then I will make the motions. The first question I wanted to come back to was Mrs De Boer's question about the Koerhuis amendment in the Temporary Rental Discount Act. Had a good time, was actually her question. I took a look at the schedule. The amendment provides that a lease may be renewed for one or more months and until 1 July at the latest. It is also possible to extend this part of the Act by KB until 1 January 2022. The law will enter into force as soon as possible. I'm aiming for April 1st, like I said. So the answer is yes. Another question that was asked in the first period was Mr Raven's question on vacancy. He came back to it just in the second term. I think that Mr Raven and I should take a good look at what he is basing himself on, because my data on vacancy is very different from the figures he is using. If he says there's a lot of emptiness, he's talking about 150,000 homes where it's going to be over 12 months, I'll put the data on that. This is about an empty position of around 90,000 homes, but often less than a year. Part of that's friction emptiness due to relocations. These are two different data, and we need to compare them. However, I would like to return to the commitment I made just now, namely that we are paying attention to shrinking areas and regions other than the Randstad. A motion has also been passed on a national transformation plan, which I am working on. So I think we can find each other on many points. Mr President, I will pass by the speakers. I have taken good note of Mrs De Boer's comments about the flying start and construction, but also about the housing and affordability and so on. That's actually totally in line with what I was trying to say. I have noted Mr Kox's points of substance. I do appreciate what he has just said about the famous Kox motion, which will, of course, be engraved in my memory forever. Like I said back then, it's nice to write history, but maybe not necessarily that way. I am very grateful to him for his words today about the finish line. And perhaps to conclude this subject completely: Mr Crone also said something about my successor. If they ask if there is a body in the closet, I will say that it is not, but it is a motion, namely the Kox motion. Indeed, there is, but it is now mainly feed for historians and our archives. I believe that Mr Van Hattem has framed it; all that is allowed. At least it's a nice place for that motion. I am very glad that we were able to conclude this in this way in good atmosphere and in good harmony with each other. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go to Mr Van Rooijen. He still quoted his amendment. There's a motion on that, too, so I'll get right to that. I am also grateful to him for his fine words. It's very special, but I'm counting on coming back here in the future. It almost sounded like a kind of goodbye, but it sounded very friendly. Thank you very much for that. Then there is Mr Van der Linden from the Nanninga Group. I did not, by mistake, mention him and his group. In the many discussions on the Housing Fund, Mr Van der Linden and his group have also paid a great deal of attention to the neighbourhoods where, through restructuring, you could improve quality of life and safety. So I would like to underline what he said on that point. Mr Van der Linden made a number of substantive points, not real questions. I would therefore just like to say a few words about his point that all those involved in the housing issue, or in the housing crisis as he called it, blame each other. Well, that's not fertile at all. What we have learned from the past few years is that we really need to do it together. Building houses is not an easy task. It's not like one person can do that. A minister can't do that alone. Alderman Schaefer couldn't do that at the time. He needed other parties to do that, too. You can drive it. You can direct it. But you need lots of parties, from the developers and the housing corporations to the city. It makes no sense to point at each other, but you have to talk and make agreements about it. You have to be able to hold on to each other. That's how I got to know the sector in recent years. In that respect, I am positive about where we stand now, even if you look at the great task ahead of us. Mr Van Hattem apparently sniffed something out of this evening's debate; I did not. I do not think that is a bad thing either, because the debates that Mr Wilders is having are at least as gray as Mr Van Hattem's record in this Chamber. I'm really sorry. I am also sorry that I have to say something about it every time, because I think that setting people up against each other and pretending that there is a "we against them" in the Netherlands is a bad thing. It's about people. You can't put people away. It's about status holders who have rights. We cannot put them away as second-class citizens who are not entitled to anything. They have rights and they also have the right to a home, just like everyone else in the Netherlands does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u150	I understand that Mr Van Hattem here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u151	Yes, Mr President, I would like to respond to that. The minister says to dismiss status holders as second-class citizens. Now Dutch house-seekers are being dismissed as second-class citizens. They're on waiting lists for years. They do not have the priority position of the status holders. That's the crux. That's the problem we're running into here. I would like to ask the Minister that question just in the second term, Mr President, to come up with a vision of mass immigration that is continuing. I told you, this cabinet is an immigration addict. This is a mass immigration junk cabinet. Come up with a vision to do something about the housing shortage, because if this continues in this way, you can keep up with so many houses, but then it stops. This country is just full. I would like a response from the Minister to that. How does she feel about that? I'm not asking that question alone. The former chief CBS demographer has also seriously denounced this last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u152	I think Minister has just given her vision, but perhaps she wants to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u153	I have, of course, already done this in the first period and, moreover, in all the other debates I have had on this subject. At one point, we agree. It would be good if there were more housing so that municipalities could provide different target groups with housing. That is not the case now, and that is a bottleneck. But I really distance myself from all the terms used by Mr Van Hattem, including the term'mass immigration'. The image he evokes with it does not do justice to reality in any way. Mr Van Hattem also knows that it is mainly about labour migration, about Europeans, about knowledge migrants and about students. In short, these are all the groups that keep our society dynamic and that are also necessary for our knowledge-based economy. So that's where we're not gonna agree, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u154	Shortly, just a minute. Before you start, may I remind you that your shoelace has been loose for some time. Maybe it'll be useful to tie it up later. Shortly, just a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u155	It's not loose, it's a little long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u156	Okay. I don't see that from this distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u157	That shoelace's a little spacious. That is also the problem, because the Netherlands is not widely measured. The Netherlands is only a small, tight and full of land. The Minister says that we all need it and that there are all rights and so on, but if you're sitting on the 22 million people at some point, there's a threat it's going to go there, then it's gonna stop. My question is simply whether there is no vision of immigration on the one hand, which keeps going on and on, and on the other hand, the country that needs to be built more and more fully, so that at some point there is literally no room for even more housing. As a result, rents will also rise, because that is what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u158	Mr. Van Hattem, you repeat yourself, I must say. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u159	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also for paying attention to the loose shoelace, because there is a party that says: in the Netherlands we release everyone, but nobody falls. And we won't trip anyone if it's a loose shoelace. I've just explained my vision. That is also the vision of the cabinet. And it's different from the PVV's. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to see Mr Crone. I'd already thanked him for his words on the motion. Houdini always had help, so I think you need cooperation. The cooperation with Mr Nijboer does indeed taste like more, I would also like to say to Mr Crone. I shall return to the Koerhuis amendment. I will prepare myself along the lines that Mr Crone has just asked for. I hope that we will soon be able to discuss the House Act here. I heard him right. Mr Rietkerk had just in his second term a rather substantive story about the Climate Agreement, about the neutrality of housing costs and about the task for housing corporations. I am not so concerned about what is going on here in the negative, because we are making an exception for rent increases if they are linked to housing improvement and sustainability. I think that the time is too short to go into the bigger picture that he called attention to. He asked to return to a number of points in writing. I'd like to do that. I think that deserves a more detailed answer than I can give here. It's obviously the subject of conversation with Aedes. I shall be happy to return in writing to the points he has just made. I would also like to thank Mr Pijlman for his comments on the housing impulse...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I will indeed take care of its transmission, as he asked. I think I answered Mr Raven's question from OSF, because it was mainly about the issue of vacancy. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I just have the motions. I have to see if the motion that was tabled in the first term is indeed the motion under letter D. I think so. That is Mr Van Hattem's motion, which deals with housing status holders. I said about this what I just said: that it is ultimately a choice that belongs at local level. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion under letter E, by Mr Van Rooijen, is actually the continuation of his question. He referred to an amendment before the House about the AOW and the income-dependent rent increase. I must dissuade her, with the arguments that Mr Van Rooijen has just outlined. He looks at that differently. I mentioned my arguments in the first term. I'm dissuading the motion. Finally, if I have my administration in order, the motion under letter F. That is the motion by Mr Van der Linden cum suis, who is asking for an investigation into the extension of the grant waiver for his own home. He's asking for an investigation. I would like to tell him that I can give the motion judgment chamber, also because it's an investigative motion. I note, however, that, when using a grant exemption for the home of up to €150,000, it is allowed to spread the donation over three years. The motion requests that we examine whether we can change that so that it will be more than three years. Of course you can. There will also be a response to the evaluation of the grant exemption for the home. We are expected to be able to send them to both chambers before the summer. So I'd like to give the motion judgment room. I am just saying that, of course, we should always look closely at the implementation implications and possible complications for the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-15.u161	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll list all three separately. Does one of the members wish to vote on the bill 35488, Proposal of the law of the member Nijboer amending Book 7 of the Civil Code and the Implementing Law on rental prices housing, the Law on maximation rent increases liberalised rental agreements? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the initiative proposal next week. Would one of the members like to vote on the legislative proposal 35516, Amendment of Book 7 of the Civil Code, the Implementing Act rents accommodation and the Housing Act (temporary rental discount)? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. Would one of the members like to vote on the legislative proposal 35518, Amendment of Book 7 of the Civil Code, of the Implementing Law rental prices housing and of the Housing Act (change of rental possibilities and income limits Housing Act)? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. You're okay with that. Then we have come to the end of this sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, Mr Nijboer, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all the best at home and good luck in the election tomorrow.
