ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the Rule 100 contribution to the UN Mission MINUSMA in Mali and its finalisation in plenary in a single period. A warm welcome to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence. Welcome to my colleagues. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. We talked yesterday about a new mission to Mali. It is customary to follow a so-called Article 100 procedure whereby the Chamber can give its opinion on that mission. I said at that time that the SP has great doubts about the usefulness and necessity of this UN mission, which has been going on for more than seven years. It is also recognised that little progress has been made. A new aspect is added. There is cooperation between the Malian authorities and the Wagner Group. These are Russian mercenaries who are extremely controversial and have little human rights. This also makes the renewed commitment of the Netherlands in Mali extremely questionable. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the situation in Mali has not improved or has not improved since the 2015 peace agreement;]] [[considers that this situation calls for a different strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from participating in the UN Mission MINUSMA with a C-130 transport aircraft including crew and supporting personnel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-427]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u3	The other motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Malian authorities are considering cooperating with the controversial Wagner Group including the deployment of Russian mercenaries;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from military deployment if it is established that the Malian authorities are cooperating with the Wagner Group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-428]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. We are critical of this mission; so much is clear. But that does not mean that if Dutch soldiers are deployed, we always wish them a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you to Mr Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u6	Today there is a demand for about 90 soldiers to be sent to Mali for six months to provide air transport in the UN peacekeeping mission MINUSMA. Two questions are central to the VVD's decision on this matter. A: Does the mission contribute to the safety of the Netherlands? And two: are the risks our soldiers face acceptable? Regarding the safety of the Netherlands. Mali is an unstable country on the external border of Europe. There are several terrorist groups active and in large parts of the country the government is weak or absent. The UN mission is helping to prevent Mali from further destabilising. If we do nothing, there is a high risk that Mali will become a safe haven for international terrorism and that there will be greater migratory flows to Europe. This is something we need to prevent. The UN mission contributes to this and thus to the security of the Netherlands. With regard to the risks to our military, the VVD had some concerns, but these were sufficiently taken away yesterday in the technical briefing and debate. In a military mission there are always security risks for our military and in this case we find them acceptable. I appreciate the commitments of both ministers that the Chamber will be informed of a mission earlier in the future, so that we have enough time to ask questions and carefully consider them. I will hold the ministers and their successors strictly to this. Another important concern, and these are the reports about the possible involvement of the Wagner Group in Mali. This Russian mercenary army is known for corruption and gross human rights violations. The Netherlands should not be associated with this. It must be clear to Mali that they stand for a choice: whether they opt for support from the international community or for Russian bandits. At the same time, we must not be blackmailed by the Russians. Sending a few mercenaries should not lead directly to the departure of the international community. So first determine whether the messages are correct, then apply maximum pressure to Mali. And if they do get involved with the Wagner Group, then together with the international partners, we will decide what the consequences are. Mr Sjoerdsma will also be tabling a motion along these lines on behalf of me and our party. Finally, there is nothing left for me but to wish our military and also the home front much strength. I hope that the broadcast to Mali will come soon and hope for a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u8	I cannot fail to point out our constitutional duty to promote the international legal order. That an sich is also a motive. That's why we're here. I am a little surprised that as motive only the security of our troops and the safety of the Netherlands is mentioned. I think that's relevant, too, but that's not the only reason we're there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u9	Participation in a mission is always a choice in scarcity, in the sense that we do not have the military capacity to promote the international legal order throughout the world. If the question arises whether we use our scarce military capabilities for a mission, then we consider it an important touchstone or which also contributes to the safety of the Netherlands. I just said that. We believe this is the case with this mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you. I call Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. My group supports the intended contribution to the UN mission in Mali, the MINUSMA mission. The purpose of the mission is important. The Dutch contribution is a crucial contribution: high-quality logistics. The risks were discussed in detail yesterday: the risks that our troops may be running there, the way we want to deal with them and the medical supply chain. I would also like to thank the Secretary of Defense for his commitment to look again closely at the medical supply chain and the UN part in Kidal. Mr. Chairman. In addition, colleagues and myself have talked extensively about the potential risks of Wagner Group involvement. They're still rumors now. As Mr Brekelmans said, let us not make a policy on the basis of rumours, but let us make it very clear to the Malian Government that it does not go hand in hand with the other. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are rumours that the Malian transition authorities want to go into business with the Wagner Group;]] [[Calls on the Government to warn the Malian transition authorities bilaterally, at European level and at UN level that cooperation with the Wagner Group may have an impact on the deployment of MINUSMA and its contribution in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, in the event of an agreement between the Malian transition authorities and the Wagner Group after the start of the mission, to use further sanctions at EU level and to re-examine the geopolitical and military situation in Mali, with the possibility not to extend the Dutch contribution to MINUSMA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. In addition, a few small missions have been mentioned. My group will support this. One mission will not support my group. That is the Dutch contribution to the EU training mission in Mali. The Malian army has not only been jointly responsible for two coups in thirteen months, but also the investigation of the International Commission of Inquiry, funded by the Netherlands and dealt with in the Security Council, has shown that a very large proportion of human rights violations in the conflict have been committed by the Malian army. In the absence of any of these violations, which is the second crucial point for my group, apart from those coups, it has come to a criminal case. That is not a form of impunity or a sense of impunity, it is simply impunity. That is why my group cannot support this training until a new Malian government has taken office after elections. This is, of course, without prejudice to the support that my group has for the great mission, that D66 wants all men and women to be sent on a successful mission and a safe homecoming and their families to be very strong in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u14	A point which Mr Sjoerdsma makes quite rightly, but it does raise the question of why he is not tabling a motion to stop that part of the mission, if it is up to his group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u15	That is quite simple: because my group's position is sufficient. I see no reason to table a motion for that. If Mr Van Dijk had wanted to do so himself, if he had wanted to ask for a ruling from the Chamber, he could have done so. He didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u16	Well, my very first motion is basically a motion not to agree to this mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u17	With the MINUSMA mission, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yes, and now Mr Sjoerdsma says: I agree with the great mission, but I do not agree with this part of the mission, with the EU training mission. But he's not filing a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u19	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u20	So he says: otherwise the deal is. That's weird, isn't it? Doesn't that raise the question of why you're not presenting the Chamber to stop that part of the mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u21	No, I don't think that's weird myself. I listened very carefully to all my colleagues in the debate yesterday. In fact, I have not heard any of my colleagues, not even you, talk about the EU training mission. Nor have I heard you speak of impunity in relation to the Malian army. I have not heard you talk about the consequences of these human rights violations by the Malian authorities. So I felt so isolated that I decided to express my group's position, but I do not need it because I can count on it to make an official Chamber statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr. Van Dijk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u23	For the sake of completeness, I have expressed those concerns. I share that with my heart, so I'm surprised you're not making a motion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u24	Let me take a look: first Mr. Brekelmans or Mr. Van der Lee? Mr. Brekelmans first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u25	Does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me that the Malian army should ultimately ensure security in Mali, that if the EU withdraws its hands from it, the risk will only increase that the Malian army will not be able to do so, that impunity as he describes it will only increase in the future, and that we will give up what we as the EU are trying to achieve with that training mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u26	In general, that is of course the case. One cannot suppose that a UN mission will infinitely assume responsibility for the security and stability of a country in the absence of a normal state army. There is something about that which I would also like to put to Mr Brekelmans. If you see that the Malian army has been co-responsible for eight years for extremely serious human rights violations and two coups over the past 13 months, and that none of these violations have led to criminal proceedings, I wonder, pending a new government, whether it is wise to continue with that training, knowing what is happening with that. That is the position of my group. I would ask Mr Brekelmans to reflect on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u27	I think you should always be critical of the effects of the involvement, whether it's this training mission or other. Only, my question remains. If that were to happen what Mr Sjoerdsma is proposing, if the EU withdraws tomorrow and the EU lets the Malian army go further, what consequences will he see of that? He wants to ensure that impunity disappears and the Malian army will better guarantee human rights, but that will have the opposite effect. How does Mr Sjoerdsma look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u28	I'll look at it in a minute. If there were a credible process in addition to what has happened here, if there had been a serious political dialogue between the Netherlands and the Malian authorities about this impunity which would have made you see progress, if there had been a European dialogue or an ECOWAS dialogue for my part that would have led to progress in the way not only the Malian army acts but also in which the Malian authorities deal with what the army does, then I would say that we should not jump to conclusions. But I did not hear the recognition yesterday in the debate that this is very serious. I've just heard a little bit of the reasoning line like yours: if we don't, it's gonna get worse. I'm kind of sorry about what happened. For the record, let us let that sink in this Chamber: we have trained an army that has done twice a coup in the past thirteen months. We're training an army that's good too, huh, human rights training that has never corrected its own men. You can do that for a certain number of years. I very much agree with Mr Brekelmans that you cannot expect results immediately. But I've been following this discussion since we started working in Mali since 2012. My conclusion is that without a new government, I have no confidence that the situation will improve. After that, I hope so, but not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u29	Let's just get to this point. I share Mr Sjoerdsma's concerns about the training mission, concerns that I expressed yesterday. I'm not sure that's gonna make any real improvements. But I'm a little surprised by this step right now. With D66 GroenLinks is also a pro-European party. This is a European training mission. We also heard yesterday that the number of participants, from Germany alone, is 600 and from Dutch 6. Isn't it a more logical step to urge the government first to enter into this discussion within the EU, in other words with the carriers of this mission, to see if they are drawing conclusions and, if so, when to choose unilaterally now to withdraw the Dutch, relatively small quota, but to withdraw it? Because that is really the consequence of your position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u30	Maybe a few things about that. Mr Van der Lee pretends that this discussion started yesterday, and that is not the case, of course. This discussion has been going on in this Chamber for over eight years. If I had heard yesterday that there was a serious European dialogue on this issue, parallel to the efforts of people to train the Malian army, it might have been another case. But it's not. Nor can I think that Mr Van der Lee should acknowledge this with the current transition government, which comes from a coup. That simply cannot be done. I'm thinking the following, which would be better. You are talking about withdrawal, but of course that is not the case. It's not about extending, which means people won't go again. It would have been wise for the European Union to put this mission on hold, to say: listen, we have looked at what happened politically in Bamako, we cannot train for a moment, with apologies. We understand how important all this is, but the political situation does not allow it. Instead, the European Union has decided to continue, because there would be prospects for new elections. Yesterday, we said this to each other, and I would like to remind you that these new elections are extremely uncertain, that an envoy was expelled who had said that the new elections should go ahead and that the Dutch cabinet might still have some understanding for that. Not me, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u31	I understand the concerns, but if it really has to have an impact on the current government, it would be better if this were an EU decision to maximise that pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u32	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u33	Then I think it would be logical to ask that step of the cabinet first. You could have tabled a motion on that too, rather than unilaterally taking the step of not extending the participation of six Dutch people. That will hardly have any impact on the situation there. From the point of view of effectiveness, too, I have the impression that you are skipping a step that might be much more useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u34	I don't think so. I'll also explain why. It would have made sense for the European Union to have had a very serious discussion on this issue. However, the debate on the extension of the mission I have just outlined has already taken place and the European Union has already decided to extend the mission. The main determining factor was the prospect of elections. Then I can say that we should have a European discussion on this, but I do know how it ends. The question will then come to the table, and Mr Van der Lee will have to answer it if, given what the army has done over the past thirteen months and the eight years before and the lack of consequences in the event of violations, you want to stop doing so with the current transition government, which comes from a coup. Then you can talk about effectiveness and I'll say at your service. But I also look at morality, and I say no. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you. Mr Kuzu was the next, but he traded with Mrs Mulder of the CDA. She has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr President, thank you. If that helps the colleague, of course we always do. We had an intensive conversation yesterday, first in the technical briefing, where we could ask all kinds of questions about the mission exactly, how safe the plane is, what about medical support, should anything happen and how our people are then taken care of, including by our partners there. We have received a sufficiently reassuring response to this. Of course, it is always exciting to send people out on behalf of your own country and ask them to defend our common freedom, of Mali, of Europe, but also of ourselves, because those jihadists do not take account of anything. We want it not to be so unstable, because it directly affects us. It's bothering them, but so are we. This security is very important for us as a CDA group, but also for the Christian Union Group and the SGP Group. Mr. Chairman. After hearing all the answers yesterday and having had a good discussion on them, we come to the conclusion that the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP support the proposed commitment in Mali. We thank all our soldiers and those who love them for their efforts. We pray for their work and we hope for a safe return home. We hope that they can find support in their faith or in other places and that they can do so in a good way. We are grateful that as the Netherlands we can contribute to peace and security in this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Mr Kuzu van DENK has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mali is one of the poorest countries in Africa, a country plagued by food shortages and civil wars. The country has been torn apart by the national interests of major powers and is partly ruled by terrorist groups, which have also grown since the UN contribution. Mr. Chairman. I'm not saying it, but Professor of International Relations Rob de Wijk says: "The ruthless and devastating search for raw materials repeats itself. Only the type of raw material changes." The hunt is now focused on rare metals. The nomadic people of Mali and Niger also wonder whether this is about fighting Islamic terror or securing access to mineral resources. Mr. Chairman. Seven years after the French operation Barkhane, seven years after the UN mission MINUSMA and seven years after heavy investment and humanitarian aid, the result is intensified tensions, more refugees, more armed militias and more terrorism. Seven years after western efforts, the result is an increase of 2 million people in need of emergency aid, an increase in the number of children in need of emergency aid and 1.3 million people in serious food insecurity. What have the French achieved, now that it appears that the influence of terrorist groups is increasing because of the absence of effective governance? What is the added value of the Dutch contribution, except that we risk the lives of our men and women? Mr. Chairman. I said it yesterday, and I will repeat it today: this is a pointless struggle, a struggle that for years is exhausting people, resources and systems and brings them to harm. Is there no concrete evidence in Afghanistan that our strategy is not helping, that the peacekeeping missions lead nowhere and that fighting violence does not solve anything at all? Mr. Chairman. We know the proportions in the Chamber. The majority are in favour of this war. That is not the choice of DENK, but having said that: we wish the men and women who are sent on mission, a safe mission and a safe return. In any case, my group will wholeheartedly support Mr Jasper van Dijk's motions. I have another supplementary motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Malian army is responsible for two coups in one year;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the Dutch participation in the EU training mission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you, Mr President. In Mali, it's an unprecedented mess, chaos. There were two coups in nine months, the French soldiers withdraw, the Malian citizens are shot wild, the jihadists are teeming there, the authorities have no or hardly any authority and Russian mercenaries of the Wagner Group are eager to further destabilise the country. In this chaos, the cabinet thinks it can make a meaningful military contribution, but we, the PVV, think differently. What has not been achieved over the past eight years, the achievement of security and stability, will not be achieved with this contribution either. The mission does not serve in any way the Dutch interest. In fact, it seems that the UN mission is becoming a toy ball of corrupt Malian drivers. In our view, therefore, it is unwise to put our military at risk in that wasp's nest that fell apart. Therefore, the PVV cannot support the military contribution. If our soldiers are to be deployed, then I wish them all every success on behalf of our group and a safe return to the Netherlands. For the sake of completeness, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a contribution to the UN Mission MINUSMA is not in the Dutch interest;]] [[calls on the Government not to contribute to these and other missions in the Sahel region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you. Finally, Mr van der Lee van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will speak on behalf of the Labour and Volt Party today. We raised a number of concerns yesterday. The situation is super complex. A number of elements have been mentioned, especially the Wagner Group, but also the question of how long the French will remain there with their mission. What I also pointed out yesterday is that instability in the region is fueled by the geopolitical struggle for crucial raw materials in Mali, but also in neighbouring countries. I am surprised that there is little insight into this and that there is no proper monitoring of who has control over which raw materials. Because that is the source of funding, including for the terrorist groups that are active. So I advise the Cabinet to look much closer together with the UN. The other concern that has just been raised in the interrupting debate I had with Mr Sjoerdsma is the way in which the Malian army, including the government, does not seem to want to contribute to what is needed there. The training mission aims to prevent human rights violations and impunity. I expect the government to resume this dialogue within the EU in order to improve this situation and to discuss it with the Malian Government. At this stage, I think it goes too far not to extend your own participation unilaterally. On behalf of the three groups, I can say that we want to agree to this mission at the moment. However, I would point out that a new rotation could take place in a year and a half. I think it really has to be different from what we have seen today, both in the procedure and in the timeliness with which we are informed as Chambers, but also in terms of understanding who is trying to secure any interests, including geopolitical ones. There must have been a substantial improvement in the regime, the government of Mali, there must have been elections and there must have been significant improvements in how the army operates there thanks to these trainings. Because if all this is not mapped out better, I am sure, quite Chamberwide, that another extension will be very difficult. I hope that the government will reflect on this for some time now and take us on board in how it prepares and shares this potential future with the Chamber. I also believe that we should be adequately informed about very relevant new developments that could have a real impact on the mission. The Wagner Group is number one, but there are also other issues that can pose serious threats. I also wish the troops, as well as the civilian people who are going there, every success and a safe return. And I hope that we will be able to see some improvement in the next six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u43	Thank you to Mr Van der Lee. I would like to suspend for ten minutes, after which we will listen to the answer given by the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u44	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr. Chairman. We have had an interesting debate, particularly yesterday and also today, on this article 100 letter and the mission in Mali. What I have greatly appreciated is the space we have given each other. I found that very educational, too. Normally it is always about positions: one party finds sister and the other party finds so. I found it quite exciting to see that we were also able to share dilemmas. This is not a simple black and white enterprise; it is full of dilemmas in this area. It is also good to show the tension between effectiveness and morality. Mr Sjoerdsma pointed that out again this morning. Those things both play a role and do not lend themselves to absolute categories. Mali is a complicated matter, if only because we are even looking for a comfortable definition of what is now progress that has been made there. How do you describe it? One takes example sister and the other takes an example like this, but what exactly is progress? Or is containment, damage control, any progress? This is not very inspiring, but sometimes crucial in international relations. That's what makes it difficult. I have noticed, also from this morning's contributions, that there is tension in the Chamber and differences of opinion are even more likely in some cases to be a sort of basic attitude between a certain need for abstinence. "Don't bother us with all the troubles and flaws elsewhere in the world" and still want to take responsibility despite all the flaws that you find everywhere and in which you can also feel uncomfortable. That is what we are talking about in the end when we have to judge this mission and the role we are going to play in this number with the C-130 and the 86 Dutch who are going to serve there. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to comment on a few points that have been made and which have remained in place, and then I come to the motions. Technically, there is indeed an extension of our contribution to the EU training mission. Mr Sjoerdsma spoke about this in detail and there was also a brief discussion. I understand the inconvenience and displeasure of Mr Sjoerdsma very well. I got it myself. If it weren't so serious, it'd be almost ridiculous for you to train an army that's gonna make two coups within a year. But it's not posh; it's serious, and it has serious consequences. Nevertheless, I have great difficulty in saying now, and this is indeed about the tension field morality and effectiveness: we report these six Dutch soldiers, on a mission of about 1,500 people. Of course, you want to keep being taken seriously, and in a way you want to see if you can do something about it. Of course, it's tragic. Last year's report, which was co-inscribed by us and the Chamber, has made it painfully clear what is wrong. I realize very well that there can be a tilting point where you say: and now it stops. However, I would like to argue here that we convey to our partners in this mission the displeasure and frustration that I am experiencing, including with Mr Sjoerdsma, about what is happening there and how little we have achieved so far, and that we indicate that we may gradually be full, but that we can see how we deal with this together. I would like to suggest that we do so and that we inform you about this very well and step by step, so that, if we ever take such a step towards an all-input, we know very well that we have tried everything, know what the reactions of the others are and can involve this in our deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u46	On this point, Mrs Mulder has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u47	I personally appreciate the Minister's reaction to Mr Sjoerdsma. At the same time, Mr Sjoerdsma has indicated that he has not tabled a motion here today because there is no majority in favour of it. The other side, namely that we may have prevented worse, is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u48	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u49	The CDA therefore does not consider an all-input approach to this point to be desirable. I would have liked to have said this explicitly here, otherwise it would seem as if we are on the same lines as the D66 Group. This is simply not the case as far as we are concerned. I think you'd better train everyone. In my opinion, we should have stayed in Afghanistan for much longer, and we should have been able to achieve stability there for a long time, because jihadism is knocking at the front door, on the edge of Europe. I'm very worried about that. So, as far as we're concerned, there's no alleyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u50	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u51	First Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u52	Of course, "all entrance" is bullshit. It's just a European training mission that you're not contributing to until the situation changes and there's a new government. So let's be real about what this is. My main question to this minister is: if he takes this seriously, what is the stake when he starts talking to those European partners? My commitment would be to suspend this training mission until elections have been held and there is a new government in which we can make sure that it wishes to comply with the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry. If that is the case, it seems to me to be a good commitment, but that is a pretty clear commitment that does not resemble the commitment that is now in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u53	I understand that very well, but in a way you are ahead of what I think we should do in the first instance, namely simply talking to our partners about how we deal with this. How are we going to explain that we have a training mission that leads to the detection of all kinds of things but that no action is being taken? Because elections are one thing. It is perhaps dangerous in the centre of democracy to say that elections are one thing and can take place sooner or later, but that badly organised elections can often lead to great bloodshed in African countries. So I am always a bit there... That is one point, but what Mr Sjoerdsma stressed yesterday was more important to me: we train, we observe mistakes and the impunity goes on unchanged. This also applies to many individual cases. I think that this was something where we have a duty, including as a training mission, to indicate: we now have this report and what are the steps we are going to take? Then we can agree later on whether these steps are sufficient, whether they lead to something, whether they occur worse and whether we can live with it. But that is, in my view, the first step we are taking. If the first step would be "we're tired of it," I think the rest will go to the order of the day. So that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u54	Then I note that, although the intention is the same, the Minister and I disagree on how serious it is what happened and what that should mean for that training mission and the Dutch contribution to that training mission. My position is very clear: two coups and every violation have not led to an actual criminal case. Then you'll have to suspend until the situation changes. This Minister wants to take a different path. I respect that further. That is the choice of this cabinet, but I see it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u55	It's obvious to me. Finally, I repeat, we have an expensive duty to discuss with our partners in this mission how we deal with this. Then we have a duty to discuss this with you in the sense of: what has this resulted in, and is that something that we can live with in a majority or not? There may be a tilting point, a moment when you say: now the limit in the tension between effectiveness and morality has been reached. But I wouldn't go that far at the moment. That's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u56	Mr Van Dijk also has a question on this point, the training mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u57	Yeah, the question is, when is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u58	I find this very difficult to say, because that would put almost a kind of time pressure on the consultation you have with people within that training mission and the result that results from it. But it shouldn't take six months, because then we'll be six months away. So it's got to be somewhere in the next few months. I don't know how long it took to draw up that report, but I think that all of that was a month or five. It is not possible to do this overnight, but I am not saying this in order to pass it on to the House, because that would not only be faint but would not do the thing justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr President, I have one other point before I come to the motions. Mr Van der Lee made a perfectly right point yesterday. How do we proceed with this in the long term? In one way or another, I also feel that we still have to take steps on certain aspects relating to raw materials, which are very unclear. These are topics such as "what is the strategy for the whole Sahel?" and "how does a number of geopolitical factors relate to a topic such as raw materials?'. I think we really need to take some further steps in this respect, because we have so far been stuck in the parameters of stability versus terrorism when it comes to: what should we do there, what can we do there and what is the problem? I fully agree with Mr Van der Lee that, even if you look at the dramatic effects of what has happened in the Central African Republic, it is too weak for us to be able, in the longer term, to balance the various actors, the forces and the consequences that may have for us. Because if you take elements like raw materials with you, you can end up in a completely different situation, which leads to other kinds of actions. I do not want to anticipate this and I do not need to do so now, but I would like to say that if we discuss Mali and the surrounding area again, we must go beyond the debate on stability versus terrorism. Because that is indeed too thin to have a good understanding of what we can do, what we want and what we have to do in that area. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the motions. The first motion, in part No. 427 belongs to Mr Van Dijk. He says, "Don't do this mission." Of course, we don't agree on that. We think it is wise and responsible to do this mission, so I would advise against this motion. The second motion, the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 428, says: do not do this mission if it is established that there is cooperation with the Wagner Group. We discussed this at length yesterday. This subject is precisely the dilemma of when is something unacceptable and when are other considerations of a heavier weight than just that Wagner Group? We have already said yesterday that of course it cannot be that the Wagner Group, although it is a private e.g., can produce so much instability for a few grab sprayers in Mali that we all suffer from it. So we will always have to weigh up and share that balance with you. That is why I would like to discourage this motion. It ignores the dilemma that could arise. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 429, by Mr Sjoerdsma c.s. I think this motion indicates exactly where the sore spot is in this whole process. Should this motion be in part No. 429, which I give Chamber judgment, is also an additional support in the sense that we can bring the concerns we all have here with a little more force of numbers into international fora. So I'm giving this motion judgment, Chamber. Mr Kuzu's motion for a resolution 430 basically comes down to: don't do it! I'd like to advise against that motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 431 by Mr Markuszower, who also says: "Don't get involved! So I would also advise against this motion. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u61	Thank you. There's gonna have to be a little cleaning right now. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u62	Madam President. If there were no risk of fulfilling the logistics function in Mali, that logistics function would be filled by civil parties. This could then be done by commercial companies. But there is a risk and so we ask our military to fulfil that logistical function. Our military are men and women with partners, parents and children. We ask them to take risks. They do so in the public interest on behalf of the government and with the support of the parliament. I know that they very much appreciate the fact that all the spokesmen here in the Chamber have wished them a safe return home. That's not the spokesman's killer. It is really meant and so it is felt by the military. On behalf of them, I would like to thank the spokesmen for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-5.u64	The motions will be put to the vote this afternoon. On behalf of all Members of Parliament, I would like to say that we wish our soldiers, our women and men to be deployed, a safe mission and a safe return home. I wish them good luck. I wish their family and friends the same.
