ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u1	Then we will continue the 30-member debate on the Chinese Government's decision to open the market for Dutch veal. This was the oldest 30-member debate on the list! I wonder if it's still up to date. According to Mrs Teunissen, I'm sure it is. I'll give her the floor first. The second speaker is Mr Klink. He's gonna give his maiden speech, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. President, don't worry. This debate is more topical than ever! Mr. Chairman. There was a loud cheering after the trade mission to China in 2018 from Minister Kaag and her colleagues. The self-proclaimed greenest cabinet ever arranged for the Netherlands to be the first country in Europe to export veal to China 17 years after the mad cow disease. This veal deal runs counter to what the cabinet says it is so important: circular agriculture, climate and animal welfare. We bring newborn animals to the Netherlands to fatten them here in a short time and then fly them to China in pieces like slices of veal. Does the Minister recognise that this trade deal is not compatible with the circular agriculture on which the government claims to use it, namely to close cycles as regionally as possible? Mr. Chairman. Kalfjes are seen as nothing but residual waste from the dairy industry. Immediately after birth, they are separated from their mother to sell the milk to the dairy industry. Barely two weeks old, a large part of the calves that still live on transport to the calf fattening plant. About half of the calves that are fattened are imported into the Netherlands. Sometimes they're on the road for 50 hours. While they are still dependent on milk as infants, on the way only water is available via drinking nipples, whose calves do not understand how to drink from it. Once arrived, the calves live in dense stables on concrete floors and suffer from lung disease and joint problems. Mr. Chairman. This is just a selection from the animal suffering that takes place in the calf sector. According to a recent opinion on the future of the calf sector, therefore, the licence to produce is under considerable pressure, while in the Netherlands there is hardly any veal eaten. 90% to 95% of veal produced in the Netherlands is exported. Consumption in Europe has been declining for years. In response to declining demand, the veal sector is now seeking excuses, such as a new market outside Europe. The veal deal helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u3	I see you have an interruption. It sounded like this was the next block. I give the floor to Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u4	Well, that's convenient. I have a question for Mrs Teunissen. I have here the treaty 'China, Admission and Monitoring Companies involved in the export of veal'. In paragraph 4, on page 3, "I am right" it is quite clear that the calves intended for export to China must have been born, raised, although I do not know if "educated" is the right word, and gender in the Netherlands. That doesn't rhyme with the story that the calves are specifically imported to export to China?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u5	Mr Hammelburg is absolutely right when he says that the treaty states that calves should be born in the Netherlands, but the Animal Party is about the whole system. If you increase your market by also looking for markets outside Europe, this means indirectly that the imports of calves from other countries are also increasing. You're also magnifying the cake. This means that there is more animal suffering, that there is more climate pollution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u6	So I understand that the Animal Party is on the side of D66 when we say that we need to transform the calves sector here in the Netherlands into a fairer, more sustainable and more animal-friendly sector, because it is really going wrong there, for example with the terribly long transport times of young calves, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u7	Sure. I couldn't agree more. At the same time, you must also tackle the excesses of the system. This means that you should at least not conclude new trade deals that only expand and worsen the system. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, we cancel this trade deal. In addition, you should not encourage the import of calves when you see that there is already a decline in demand in Europe. Then you can reduce the import.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u8	I see two more interruptions. Mrs van der Plas has been standing for a while. Do you want to go now or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u9	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u10	Then I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u11	I have the impression that Mrs Teunissen is confusing a number of things. This debate is specifically about exports to China. In fact, the call is being made here that we simply should not have any more calf farming here. Then I think: what are we going to discuss now? Then specify it to China and then submit a request for a debate. Because the Animal Party has the most intention of abolishing the entire livestock sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u12	No. This debate is about the trade deal we have concluded with China. At the same time, I try to demonstrate in my contribution the consequences of this deal. If we continue with this deal, thereby increasing the market and the cabinet in the future may be even more committed to increasing the market, then you will get a very wrong incentive. Then you get even more import and more animal suffering, which is already inherent in the calf sector. We say: we need to reform the calf sector; tackle the excesses and at least do not commit to more market outlets and to more of these trade deals. And: cancel this current trade deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u13	In the second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u14	I think China's only going 1%. So it does not seem to me that Dutch calf farming is exploding hugely here, just because it would be exported to China. So that 1% has nothing to do with that. I would like to stick to the point that Mrs Teunissen is really about us having a discussion here about calf farming an sich. Is she aware that if we get rid of it, production will be moved to other countries, where conditions may be very bad and much more environmentally polluting, where we do not know what is happening to these animals and where we do not know at all how many antibiotics are being used there? So it's kind of a nymby syndrome: not in my backyard. Let's not have it here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u15	And your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u16	...for then it's out of sight, out of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u17	I actually hear two questions or comments. One is: there is not so much veal going to China. It's 10% outside of Europe. Of the total veal exports, 10% go to countries outside Europe. So what is important is that we should not exacerbate the incentives to import more and more calves and raise them and fatten them in the Netherlands. Because it is not sustainable, it is not good for animal welfare and it is not good for the climate. Trade deals like this are way out of date in that respect. We have major challenges in the field of animal welfare. The adopted Animal Law is one consequence of which we see that society is changing. The other report on future scenarios for the calf sector also shows that time is changing and that there is a need for a different way of keeping animals, namely that calves can just stay with the cow. This kind of trade deal is directly contrary to that. That's the point I want to make here. That is why I also outline the system in a broad sense, because this trade deal is part of it. Your second point concerned the question of whether we are not moving companies abroad. One of the future scenarios shows that it is quite possible to keep calves with the cow. There have already been experiments with circular agriculture, which shows that it is quite possible to work ground-bound. So I would say: let's not be so afraid that companies are moving abroad, but rather bet on a sustainable future. As far as climate ambitions are concerned, all countries will eventually have to comply, not just the Netherlands. That is why I am not so afraid of moving sectors abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u18	Good. I am looking at Mrs Van der Plas for a second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u19	Look, anything can happen in the Netherlands. Of course calves can stay with the cow. What Mrs Teunissen refers to are often very small-scale companies, which often have a second branch. They don't have their main income from milk production. So it is very nice to paint a romantic picture of that in the sense of: it is possible. Well, it can't be if you're a farmer dependent on your milk sales. As for moving abroad...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u20	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u21	How's Mrs Teunissen in that? Of course, it's a very nice picture. I understand very well where the Party for Animals comes from and why it is said so, but isn't it much more honest when the Party for Animals says that it is not always possible? A farmer must have additional income and not just depend on the milk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u22	Let's see who benefits from this deal. That's mostly the VanDrie Group. Dairy farmers, the dairy sector, about 4,000 farmers indicate that this deal does not work out to their advantage at all. They do not reap the fruits of it at all. These international trade deals mainly concern multinationals, and in the calf sector in particular one particular multinational. Then you might ask yourself what it is really about us and what the farmer actually does about it in the Netherlands, while we have already shown that if we focus on more organic soil, it is actually possible that calves stay with the cow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u23	Good. If you guys want to get together, I think that's gonna take a long time. So perhaps your final question to Mrs Teunissen, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u24	Does Mrs Teunissen know what amount is being spent in shops in the Netherlands on organic products?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u25	This is a quiz. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u26	I'm known for knowing quite a lot of facts, but I can look this up for you. No, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u27	You can come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u28	I can come back to that. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u29	I now give the floor to Mr Klink for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u30	Mrs Teunissen, this debate is about the trade deal with China. It is quite clear that the calves must really be born here and that they must meet the highest standards we have in the world, namely European animal welfare requirements. You keep saying we shouldn't have deals like this. I think we should have this kind of deal. I don't know why you think this is an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u31	Apart from the import, let's say we're only talking about calves in the Netherlands. They get fattened, chopped up and flown to China. We can already see how many abuses there are in the calf sector at the moment. Antibiotic use is huge. That's because calves can't be with the mother. As a result, the immune system is not developed further. The animal health and animal welfare problems are enormous. That is why we have also received this report, this scenario study from the calf sector. That's because the licence to produce is at stake. So it is clear that something needs to change in the calf sector. If we are going to expand the old system by concluding a trade deal with China, then animal suffering will only increase, climate problems will only increase, and the problems of circular agriculture will increase. Circle farming is becoming increasingly out of sight, whereas we need it so badly, given the challenges we face. I imagine you'd agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u32	I wonder which country would do it. If you say that in a country like the Netherlands, which meets the highest standards, it is not good or terrible, then I wonder which country it is good in. I would say: we already have it very well, we already have very high demands here; let's see how we could professionalise it where there are any bottlenecks. But to say it's not good here. Well, I'm curious as to where it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u33	That's your question. A reminder for everyone: please speak through the chairman. That helps the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u34	I say via the front-runner: let us at least stop importing calves, because with that we are only going to increase the pressure to export more. So let's at least stop doing that. The consumption of veal is also declining in Europe. We're betting on a shrinkage of the livestock. Farmers are being bought out. Why should we continue this development when in the Netherlands we are moving towards a more sustainable agriculture? That's good for the climate. Why not stop imports of calves instead of adopting a new trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u35	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with two questions. Does the Minister agree with us that the veal deal with China has become obsolete, given the enormous challenges we have in the area of circular agriculture, climate and animal welfare, and that this deal should be terminated? Finally, should the veal deal be necessary to get rid of the so-called surplus calves in the dairy industry, should we not even stop importing 800,000 extra calves a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u37	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Klink, who will give his maiden speech. But first things get cleaned up. You are of course familiar with it, but it is tradition that the maiden speech is fully pronounced and that there are no interruptions. Mr. Klink, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two and a half weeks ago I didn't expect to be a member of the House of Representatives, let alone give my maiden speech today. I'm going back in time. May 13, 2000 is known for the fireworks disaster in Enschede. For me personally, it was also a dramatic day. On that day, my father crashed under a dung injector on our land in Over Pekela. I was 15 years old then and we just lived for two years on a dairy and arable farm with towering funding. From that moment on, with my mother, we depended on each other. My two younger brothers and I had to combine school with continuing our farm. Indeed, both the bank and the Tax Administration have been directed to continue the farm. Stopping wasn't a financial option. Not rarely we had to milk the cows first in the morning, then go to school and get back to work in the stable in the evening. By paying close attention to the costs and investing, we have finally expanded our farm to a healthy and sustainable dairy farm. We lived on the proceeds of the nukas, the sober calves, and the sale of cows. So we also had every interest in taking good care of the calves; otherwise you have nothing left. This has allowed my brothers and I to develop, and I can tell you this here and now. Mr. Chairman. Calves are an essential part of dairy farming. We have a professional calf farming sector in the Netherlands, which is leading in animal welfare and food safety. But that's not gonna get you there yet. There is also a need for market outlets, and they are not just there. For many years the officials of LNV and Foreign Affairs have worked to be able to export Dutch veal to China. I give them a sincere compliment on this. Mr. Chairman. It is very good that the Chinese market has been opened up to veal from the Netherlands. For the record, this deal deals with the export of veal from calves born in the Netherlands. This growth market offers opportunities for Dutch farmers, as veal is hardly eaten there. The veal deal has no impact on animal welfare. Beef exported to China still has to be produced in accordance with the strict European animal welfare standards and safety requirements. At a stop on exports of Dutch veal to China, the Brazilian and Argentine beef sectors will jump into that hole, and there animal welfare standards are significantly lower than ours. A great advantage is that the veal and also the pork can be certified paperless to China. That is far from true for all countries. Can the Minister promise that all animal products can be certified paperlessly with the United Kingdom to all exporting countries? What deadline can this be achieved? Mr. Chairman. The veal sector has received a huge blow in the corona crisis due to the closure of seven-and-a-half month restaurants and the failure to obtain additional state aid. In order to boost the earning model, sustainability and circular agriculture, it would be very desirable to broaden the protocol with China so that organs, legs and ears of calves can also be exported to China. Does the Minister see any possibility of broadening the protocol in these areas? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I've been running out of time. The VVD is proud of our veal sector, which can now sell its high quality meat in China in accordance with the standards in force here. The veal deal is therefore good for farmers and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u39	Congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u40	Great, this personal story. I will suspend the sitting for a few minutes so that you can be congratulated by your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u42	Good. Let's get back to the meeting. I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Also from this place "happily" to my colleague Klink with a start that stopped me. I look forward to working with you. Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen crisis has literally stopped our country. That gives an opportunity for and need to think about how we deal with our living environment and the question of what kind of country we really want to live in. We are holding this debate with the Minister for Trade and now with the Foreign Minister. We all find tyrannical regimes, as in Belarus, horrible. And rightly so. But what about tyrannical monopolies? The Minister knows that the Christian Union is therefore partly critical of trade agreements. They are often presented as fantastic for free trade and competition, but unfortunately the practice is less rosy. Take China's 2018 decision to open the borders, after these seventeen years were closed to Dutch veal for a long time indeed on improper grounds. That sounds shallow as good news for the Dutch calf sector. But who is actually benefiting from this decision? Isn't it especially the big integrations in the calf chain with the firmly anchored VanDrie Group in the Quote 500? As a result, the import of calves to us with nitrogen-laden land is not increasing any further? I'll get back to you on that. Isn't it high time we put a stop to that anyway? Please note that 50% of calves fattened here are already imported, for example from Ireland, through hours of transport. That was 0% in 1960. 90% of the veal is then exported again, because Dutch people hardly eat veal and certainly not white veal. And what's left here? Indeed, the shit; excusez le mot. There we can all collapse: from nature to the starter on the housing market. Even though import calves are excluded from the bilateral deal with China, that deal of course increases the chances of even more imports of calves. After all, it does not reduce the sector, quite the contrary. Mr. Chairman. Was it such a clever idea to help the largest market in the world through campaigns on veal, something that they barely ate before, whereas we as humanity should rather eat less than more meat, certainly beef? What does the Minister really think of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u44	You have an interruption from Mr Klink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u45	I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u46	You need to get the microphone something...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u47	Oh, sorry, yeah. I have to do that on my own... I have to get used to these things. I can't just talk. I have a question about the import. I've heard Mr Grinwis say twice now that imports are only increasing. I'm very curious what Mr. Grinwis is basing that on. Maybe I didn't do my homework properly, but I've actually seen that the import is decreasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u48	I also said: all import calves are excluded from this bilateral deal, the market as such is ultimately not reduced by a larger export market and the pressure to import even more will increase, apart from the other market conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u49	However, I would like to say that it is a factual situation that total imports have decreased over the past period. It is true that for this deal it is not possible that the veal comes from countries other than the Netherlands, but the total imports also decrease. I think it's a good thing we're establishing that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u50	I don't think we're establishing that with each other. The corona year has, of course, been a very bizarre year. As I said, the Dutch meat calf farming has grown from 400,000 slaughtered animals in 1960 with 0% import to 1.65 million in 2019, with imports of calves increasing from 0% to 50% in the end. The import of calves has thus become immense since the start of calf farming in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u51	You will continue your speech. Ah, Mrs. Van der Plas. This is your fifth interruption. I thought in advance, I'll do two. But it's getting all out of hand here. I'd say I'll give you two more, and this is your first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u52	The debate was scheduled until 10 p.m., so in my opinion we still have two hours to go. I am a little surprised at the language that Mr Grinwis is doing here. I feel like he's reading a text from the Party for Animals. The Christian Union has a very large constituency among farmers, especially on the Veluwe, where there are a lot of calves farms. I'm actually wondering why the Christian Union is in this way, a little polarizingly, fighting our calf farming. I'm kind of looking for what's behind it. Perhaps you'd like to get rid of that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u53	On the contrary. Look, drinking milk comes with calves. We have to face that. There is nothing wrong with that as far as the Christian Union is concerned. First of all, the Christian Union stands for a sustainable agriculture with good farmers' sandwiches. But in our country, we must also respect our natural borders. At the moment we are dealing with a nitrogen crisis that threatens to put us on hold, day in and day out. The BoerCitizen Movement may or may not agree with that, but I think: please, let's stop importing calves that we don't need as a country. Second. Take advantage of who? Are these the free, smaller entrepreneurs in our country or are they the big integrations with the VanDrie Group first? My colleague also knows that it is true that the major integrations are the first to benefit and that in the current market conditions, especially with the corona crisis over them, the small, free entrepreneurs are having a hard time. The Christian Union stands up for them in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u54	Then I'll look at Mrs. Van der Plas. Would you like to deploy your last interruption? You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u55	Then I'll use it grif. I find that strange, too, as Mr Grinwis says. I'm not here to defend the VanDrie Group, because it can very well hold its own pants. What I find strange is that it is said here: VanDrie's great powerful meat bosses benefit from this and we are left with the shit. Then I'm like, "What about Tata Steel?" Shall we just say to them: stop it, you don't have to export anymore? They cause enormous pollution around IJmuiden and North Holland and they also export. Is that what we should do? Or is it because this is about calves, where VanDrie is actually being portrayed as a powerful meat boss who makes money on the backs of the farmers and who doesn't give a shit? Because if I did, I'd take all the industries that are polluting and exporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u56	First of all, I am a little saddened that the Farmer Citizen Movement does not seem to stand up for the farmers, the free farmers who are suffering from these great integrations. I do not know how many dairy farmers who have also knocked on my door: please limit that import and enter an animal rights system for calf farming. Secondly, Tata Steel is currently being sued by many residents. The government and other governments are talking to Tata Steel to reduce their emissions and to make their production cleaner. So it does seem very good to me, as a government, to talk to a lot of industries and, where necessary, to impose rules to produce more clean and reduce emissions. In terms of reducing emissions from calf farming, one of the easiest measures is to reduce imports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u57	Then I would suggest that you continue with your speech. Then Mrs. Van der Plas can keep her own story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u58	Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we are dealing not only with a nitrogen crisis but also with the corona crisis. This crisis also forces us to consider, for example, safety in the field of animal diseases. The unnecessary transport and collection of animals throughout and across Europe is not only not good for nitrogen and climate but also presents risks in terms of animal diseases and public health. It is good that the Minister of LNV has fought in Europe for a maximum journey time of eight hours, but it takes so long for such an obvious improvement to be achieved. When will that have been introduced? End of next year? And, of course, it takes a lot more. So much imports of calves, that simply is not sustainable, not healthy and therefore not sustainable. In short, it has to be different, better, less. It is a pity that the sector has now run away from the consultation tables. The scenario studies sent to the Chamber last month by the Minister of LNV come up with difficult, spicy conclusions for the meat calf farming in the Netherlands, but we can't get through on the old ground. This brings with it a responsibility to think about the future for these farmers, and certainly also for the free calf farmers, in order to achieve a sustainable agriculture for everyone where free farmers can earn a good living. One more question in injury time, Mr. Chairman. Then I come again to the monopoly power of the increasingly large players in the chain as the calf chain. How does the cabinet intend to prevent the market power of large players from increasing? I told you, if a regime of a country is tyrannical, we are there as the chickens to condemn it. But are we as decisive as monopolies are created in the market that have allowed free and often smaller entrepreneurs to check...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u60	... employees lose their rights and kill nature? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u61	Yeah, okay. That was a bit over time but there is still an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u62	I hear great impatience from the Christian Union when it comes to transforming the calf sector in the Netherlands into a more sustainable, more climate-proof sector that focuses on animal welfare and protects the small farmer in the Netherlands. Mr Grinwis also referred to a letter sent by the Minister of LNV, which I believe was sent on 18 May with three scenarios, including pilots and a subsidy pot. But I hear Mr Grinwis' impatience. I therefore ask him whether he considers the scenarios, their elaboration and, above all, the timetable that goes with them to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u63	They were, of course, spicy studies with spicy scenarios. For the time being, in this missionary phase, it has been picked up with old money and pilots; I understand that. But the Christian Union is clearly saying to him that my colleague is probably aware of the election programme of the Christian Union that we need to go a step further. We have to maximize the quantity of animals, the amount of calves in our country. A system of animal rights could be very helpful. This will enable us to reduce imports, which we can see are huge now, especially from Ireland, for example. If the Irish want calves so badly, why don't they breed them up themselves? Why aren't meat calves fattened there? Why do we have to do all this here in the Netherlands? We have various problems here and also from the point of view of animal health it is not the best solution to say euphemistically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u64	I see that Mr Hammelburg wishes to intervene. That's his second interruption in the second instance. So it's his fourth interruption, to stay sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not very good at counting, but thank you. I hear you. I also hear Mr Grinwis; he says very clearly that it takes a very long time with that pilot. That pilot needs to be evaluated. That's what's going on for years. In other words, if I may summarize Mr Grinwis's words: it must all be done much faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u66	The Christian Union wants a fair trade policy, a fair trade policy and a future that can be maintained for our farmers and dairy farmers. Many of those dairy farmers, of course, are not all, but a lot of them complain about the import, which makes sure that their sober calves are not worth a penny.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u67	I see that Mr Klink also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Grinwis, I don't know if you've seen the latest CBS figures on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u69	Through the President, you address Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u70	Mr. Chairman. Now I'm off my provos.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u71	It's tricky, I get it. You need to get in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u72	Mr. Chairman. Mr Grinwis, have you seen the latest CBS figures on the cattle sector and the amount of cattle we have in both countries? For the Netherlands and Ireland, again, it is a fact that it is increasing in Ireland and declining in the Netherlands. Now you just said again: why can't it be done in Ireland itself? In my view, the actual situation is already such that it is increasing and decreasing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u73	I think there is no contradiction; then we agree. Then the Irish show nicely that they can do it themselves and that all the living, fasting calves do not need to be transported to the Netherlands. If we have eight hours as max, then we don't have to do it by plane, which tests are now being carried out. It seems to me that it is not the right way to transport calves through the air to the Netherlands to fatten them up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u74	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out that this debate is about exports to China and not about imports of calves from Eastern Europe and Ireland. Having said that, I begin my contribution. The veal production has a value of about 2.1 billion. Approximately 10,000 people are employed in the calf sector. The calf sector mainly markets products on the European market. 100% of this production remains domestic, 25% goes to Germany, 25% finds sales in Italy and 15% in France, 15% goes to the rest of Europe and 10% is for third countries including the United States, Canada, Japan, the Middle East and China. Exports to China are less than 1% of total production. As far as exports of veal to China are concerned, only one European producer has so far received official approval, and that is indeed the VanDrie Group. And why? 'Cause they're so good at it. The production of veal is indeed bull calves born on the dairy farm and then moved to calves farmers in the Netherlands, who work in a very sustainable way. On 4 July 2018, the Protocol veal was signed by the Chinese Minister and Minister Carola Schouten. This took place after 15 years of negotiations on access. The protocol provides, inter alia, that only calves born, reared and slaughtered in the Netherlands may be used and that only veal from boneless bones may be exported. Dutch farmers have the lowest environmental impact in the world. This is a sentence that should be on the whiteboard in many offices in this Chamber. Not only does this deal bring jobs in multiple layers of the economy. Every farmer in the Netherlands keeps an average of ten people at work; 600,000 jobs directly and indirectly... it also fits perfectly in any climate argument. In fact, to contribute to a circular economy, the deal should even be extended. Chinese consumers eat veal. To the left or to the right is a definite fact. The question that needs to be answered is whether we want the meat to be produced in extremely polluting Chinese farms where animal welfare is terrible or whether we want to give Dutch farmers the chance to produce as animal and environmental friendly as possible for the Chinese market. As I said, we would even like to propose moving forward in the circularisation of our veal sector. Many Dutch and Europeans like a tender piece of veal, but the organs, legs and ears are less often on the menu. Therefore, this often remains to be processed in less high-quality products. Let it be the same that the demand for these less desirable parts of the calf in China is very large. This seems to me to be a golden opportunity to ensure that we use the entire calf as a high-quality product. Unfortunately, this is not yet possible under the current deal. Hopefully we can make this possible in the future, so that nothing of the calf is lost. The question to the Minister is: is the Minister prepared to see if there can be market access for those parts that currently do not have market access in China? Those are the so-called by-products.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u76	Thank you. I see an interruption by Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u77	I just heard Mrs Van der Plas say that farmers in the Dutch calf sector work so sustainably. But if I take the newly published report on the future scenarios, then I see figures that are not at all sustainable, and certainly not animal-friendly. For example, 50 to 70% of calves develop pneumonia, 30 to 50% of calves develop pleural inflammation and other common problems include diarrhoea, ear inflammation and joint inflammation. And 60% of rosé meat start-ups have excessive antibiotic use. I would now like to list a number of points in the report which show that the suffering in the calf sector is terrible. Do you at least agree with me that we need to reform the sector, which is also mentioned in the report, and that we should at least not expand that market further with a trade deal like that with China?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u78	No one will deny that there are animal health problems. Especially in calves, they're vulnerable animals. They're just born. No one will deny that. What does happen, and Mrs Teunissen also knows, is that there is an enormous amount of work going on throughout animal husbandry in order to raise animal health status. You can name the numbers from here, but my question remains. We have a good government here, in the sense that there is a lot of control. We have veterinary medicine, vets that are at an extremely high level. We know exactly how many antibiotics are being used. Actually, we know everything that happens in a stable. So my question remains. I'm not saying we should keep it here the way it is. I'm not saying don't touch those peasants, or you're gonna have to deal with me. What I fear is that if we continue in this way, the calf farming but also other livestock farmers will stop here. The meat consumption isn't getting any less. In North-West Europe perhaps, but worldwide meat consumption is just increasing. We're going to 9 billion people. Prosperity is rising in countries and it is well known that in countries where prosperity is rising, people are starting to eat meat. In Sudan, 9 kilos of meat per year is eaten. It is the country with the lowest meat consumption; not because they all want to be vegetarian, but because they have no money for it. My fear when I keep saying "it has to get out of here," is: but what's going to happen? I will never get an answer from the parties who do not really want it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u79	I think you made your point. Then I look at Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u80	I hear from Mrs van der Plas: meat consumption is there, we have to meet that demand and then it can be better in the Netherlands. But the Rabobank report shows that the consumption of and demand for veal is decreasing in Europe. Why, then, should we launch new markets with a sector that is already so dirty and so polluting? Why shouldn't we work together towards a sustainable transition instead of making deals like this? Does Mrs Van der Plas agree with me that in the future scenario... I understand that she is worried, but the dairy farmers are also concerned about increasing an unsustainable market. Does she agree with me that it is precisely this development that should be promoted towards sustainable agriculture and not an unsustainable thing like such a trade deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u81	Look, I think it's just a market demand. There's no fence around Europe. We can say that veal consumption is decreasing here, but meat consumption is increasing worldwide and there is a clear need in China for high quality and sustainable veal in the Netherlands. Those facts are there. I still have no answer to the next question. Let's say we're getting consensus. I don't think that's gonna happen, but okay, let's just say it happens. What do you want? What do you think is happening in other countries? I do not want to put it on other countries, like 'let it go there' or 'we should not let it go there; we should keep it all here'. I care what your solution is. For the Netherlands you say: sustainable and cycle and calves at the cow, all very nice. This also has many disadvantages and Mrs Teunissen knows that. But then what? Climatologically, that doesn't matter, because emissions in other countries are getting much higher. The antibiotic use might be higher there. That is what your party is responsible for, because if we stop here, it does not mean that it will end in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u82	I have to do another reminder: through the chairman indeed, and not you-u-u-u-u. Mrs Teunissen, I assume you wish to make use of your next interruption, because you are still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u83	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Mrs van der Plas says that there is a problem and that the Netherlands will have a solution. There is a demand for meat and we have a solution for that; we are going to facilitate that. But actually there is no problem, because that question was originally not there with that trade deal. After seventeen years, the cabinet has actively sought to open up that market. China didn't want that at all at first. Does Mrs van der Plas agree with me, then, that we should stop using these trade missions to push for that system to be opened up again, when we see that on all sides climate, animal welfare, this road to long-distance trade is simply unwelcome and untenable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u84	I don't know if there is a question, because apparently there is. I do not know whether that question was created with it either. If China doesn't want veal, it doesn't want veal, it seems to me. That seems simple to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u85	Good. Then I see an interruption by Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u86	This is the very last one. I hear Mrs van der Plas speak a few times in this debate about trade. Mrs van der Plas did so in previous debates. I am a little confused, because on the one hand we have to trade more and on the other we have to trade less. We have to get agriculture out, then we have to do it honestly again, then we have to make it better. I would like to have a clear statement from Mrs van der Plas, because when it comes to D66, we use trade agreements precisely to improve the world, to improve production chains and we do not give up. But I have heard Mrs van der Plas say so many opposite things that I do need a little more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u87	I understand that Mr Hammelburg thinks that this is unclear, but it is not unclear at all. We import products that have lower standards for the production method. The Netherlands exports products that are more high-quality than those in other countries. I don't think that's wrong. That's the difference, I say through the chairman to Mr. Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u88	Thank you, then Mr... Oh, Mr. Grinwis has also changed his mind. He thinks, "I'll take my interruption too." Then you have an interruption from Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u89	I do have a question for Mrs Van der Plas. I know the BBB feels differently about the nitrogen crisis. At the same time, if there are court rulings and we need to limit nitrogen and ammonia emissions, then it comes down to choices: can dairy farming continue or can calf farming continue? Knowing that calves are born on dairy farms that have to grow up and that a lot is imported into calf farming, what is Mrs van der Plas' choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u90	Firstly, there is no choice at all. The judge made a decision on nitrogen and said that we should reduce our nitrogen emissions. But the judge didn't tell us how to do that at all. I have not heard a single court ruling saying that we are going to do so by removing calf farming or dairy farming from the Netherlands. If you can bring me that judge's ruling, I'm curious. So how we do that is a political choice. That political choice is then made here. Every farmer is just as sweet to us. As far as we are concerned, everyone deserves a chance: a small farmer, a large farmer, a organic farmer, a common farmer. We want to keep food production in the Netherlands as much as possible. But in the report to which Mrs Teunissen refers, for example, it says that it is also an option that dairy farmers will always have to keep the calves on the farm. So a dairy farmer is going to be a calf farmer. You know, through the chairman, what is that going to mean for investments in stables? A dairy farmer is not a calf farmer. We're gonna have to take a good look at that. Again, I'm not saying, guys, leave everything to the old, I'm not going anywhere and I'm going to put the heels in the sand. But we must remain real and give as many farmers as possible a chance. It doesn't have to be or-or; it can also be and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u91	I ask a political question, so I also ask a political answer. Mrs. Van der Plas cannot run away endlessly before that choice. It is indeed also a political choice whether or not you choose the scenario to keep those calves on your own farm. Mrs Van der Plas did not hear me say that at all. But I come again to my question. Part of it can be done with innovation, of course, but part of it also involves controlling livestock. Let me put it this way: the Christian Union would be more in favour of maintaining those dairy farms, where the number of animals is already limited by phosphate rights, and of using a maximum rate in those sectors which are not yet limited, for example those of goats and calves. Can I see Mrs. Van der Plas as an ally in that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u92	If Mr Grinwis wants to keep the dairy farming here, I would like to know what will happen to these calves, because these calves will continue to be born. So what are we gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u93	I already told you. Half is import, so the other half will have to grow up. So that's what I'd like to talk to Mrs Van der Plas about. Nor have I argued in any way that this should be the way forward. It's about what choice Mrs. Van der Plas makes. I note that she is not on the side of the dairy farmers who say: please, stop importing calves and give us a future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u94	Thank you. Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u95	I would like to respond to that, because it is quite wrong what Mr Grinwis is saying, namely that I am not on the side of the dairy farmers. That is just bullshit, and that is just a frame that Mr Grinwis is putting here right now. That's not true at all. I just want us to keep our food production here. I began by saying that I attach great importance to saying that this debate is about exports to China and not about imports from Eastern Europe. That is a completely different debate. As far as I am concerned, we can hold a debate on this. You know, I'm not a coward and I'm not running away from that at all. But I find it a little too easy to say here: you are not on the side of the dairy farmers, who have called me by chance. That's just not true at all. I just stand for every food producer in the Netherlands, whatever food it makes and whatever way it makes food.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u96	Thank you. That's what we're going to the next speaker. The point was, of course, justified. We are really talking about the export of veal to China, but this is just going to be some sort of agricultural debate. Anyway, anyway. I give the floor to Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me be very clear, like Mr Grinwis: the calf farming in the Netherlands really must be fundamentally transformed. We have major problems in this country in the calf sector: with sustainability requirements, with climate and with the environment, but above all with animal welfare. We really need to look at that. I am very aware that the Minister of LNV recently had a dialogue with the calf sector. That dialogue has not been very satisfactory is reflected in the letter she sent to the Chamber on 18 May. We really need to do something about the problems that other parties in this Chamber have just listed. I would add the antibiotics and the long journey time for calves, sometimes up to 19 hours. I have a question for the Minister, and I will be relatively brief. It concerns the letter from the Minister of LNV of 18 May. I was talking about it in the debate with Mr Grinwis. It is quite clear that, on the basis of this disappointing outcome of the dialogue, we will now be working on three pilots. We have also found EUR 10 million in funding for this. My question to the cabinet is, how long will that pilot take? Then what happens to the results of those pilots? I assume there will be another evaluation trail. In other words, haven't we been years? I was actually expecting from the Minister of LNV and the Cabinet that we're really going through. This has gone on for far too long. We must ensure that we get to work on the calf sector, but also on livestock farming in the Netherlands in a broad sense. We need to solve the problem of nitrogen, for example, which we can rebuild and give more space to nature. These contradictions can only be resolved if we also look at livestock farming in a broad sense. The cabinet knows that from my party. Mr. Chairman. What exactly is the objective of the three scenarios or the three pilots mentioned by the Minister? That's unclear to me. When are they to be achieved? What's the timeline? What are we gonna do? When are we gonna run it? When can we get back to that? Mr. Chairman. I will leave it at that for the first time; perhaps I should like to come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u98	Thank you, but I see Mrs Teunissen walking to the microphone, so I expect her to want to make an interruption. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u99	Mr Hammelburg finished so quickly that I had to run. It is very good to hear that you are in favour of reforming the calf sector and also want to tackle the problem of nitrogen. I hear about that, but I do not hear you specifically about this trade deal between the Netherlands and China to export veal. Now this seems like low-hanging fruit when we talk about tackling the climate crisis and the nitrogen crisis and tackling animal suffering. Your party keeps saying: we need to focus on circular agriculture; this change must take place now. I can imagine D66 saying: we have to stop this deal now, because it is wrong and untenable in all respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u100	I think it is an excellent question, but I want this discussion... I actually think it is an agricultural debate. Let me just be clear about that. The chairman just said it, too. I believe that this debate should be fundamentally very broad across the entire livestock sector in the Netherlands and also in Europe. That's what we have to do. I also think that trade agreements should be used to create a positive movement. I already see improvements in this agreement with China, but I agree with you that if we conclude trade agreements in the future, which I am very much in favour of, we must also ensure that we include all these elements, on sustainable business, but also on human rights, for example. We should not now have a whole debate on livestock production through one sector and one agreement and, for example, we should discuss the reduction of livestock production and the resolution of the problem of nitrogen, because I do not think that is fair. I think you should talk about the whole sector in a broad sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u101	Thank you. Finally, I see a question from Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u102	Mr Hammelburg is now making it very large, while I think it is quite small, simple and simple. We are indeed dealing with a trade deal. That's why the Minister of Trade is here. We're dealing with a deal about veal. Then it's actually very simple: do you want a deal or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u103	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u104	The question is very clear, but that deal is already there. There's already a trade going on. On the contrary, I want to have a fundamental discussion, not just about the calf sector, but about livestock farming in the broad sense. We need to do something with that now. You can't just do that through a discussion about this one trade agreement that has already entered into force. I think you should have that fundamental discussion. There you will find us on your side, because you know from us that we really want to do something about livestock farming in the Netherlands, that we want to transform agriculture into a circular farming sector, that we want it to be much more sustainable, with much more attention for animal welfare. That's where you'll find us by your side. Last week we voted in favour of an amendment of yours which we thought was so important, and I wonder how it relates to, for example, the calf sector, to name but a few. Actually, I forgot to ask that question. You will find us on your side, but I also think that we should have that discussion very quickly. You have just heard me ask questions to the Minister of LNV and the Cabinet about how they intend to fundamentally transform the calf sector in the Netherlands and also at a rapid pace. In the letter of 18 May from the Minister of LNV, I do not see any indications. I think it is completely inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u105	Then you have an interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u106	I would like to support Mrs Teunissen, because I agree with her that we are now having a very concrete debate on a very concrete deal. I have the feeling that Mr Hammelburg is diving away from the answer to the question. The ball's on the dot. What do you think of this deal? Do you think it is desirable or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u107	Again, I would very much like to see all our exports done with calves, with dairy calves, because that's what we're talking about. This treaty provides for this. I see that other trade flows do not yet provide for this. Once again, a trade agreement like this can lead to a great deal of improvement. At the same time, we must ensure that livestock production is fundamentally changed in a broad sense, including the calf sector. This will ultimately also have to do with the production and the quantity. You'll see there might be less exports. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u108	Mr Van Dijk, second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u109	But it is clear that the Netherlands is expanding its market when access to China is reopened. Then there will be more production, more sales and more exports, at least to China, because that was closed for 17 years. Is D66 in favour of that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u110	I think Mr Van Dijk just heard me ask this question to the cabinet: what does this deal, what does the calf sector and its expansion possibly have to do with the expansion of the sector, when we have to move towards a smaller sector in a broad sense? Of course. I also say that we should have that discussion fundamentally. I think we simply need a tough approach to the livestock sector in the broad sense. We want to reform it and push up the circular agricultural side. It's gotta be better. I don't think there's any light in it, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u111	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u112	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Klink for his maiden speech. I note that we are now having a debate that was requested in 2018. I can't wait to see how that's gonna work in the next few weeks. Are we going to finish it all from 2018 until now? Then we'll be busy. The reason was the news that the Dutch market can export veal to China, after no less than seventeen years of negotiations. The government achieved that after a trade mission. It would be worth 15 million euros. I agree with all the questions of the Christian Union about this deal. How does it relate to the plea for a more regional agriculture? How does it relate to nitrogen emissions? How does it relate to small-scale production, which I believe this Minister is in favour of? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A lot has happened over the past three years when you look at the relationship between Europe, the Netherlands and China. Take, for example, the EU-China Investment Treaty, which aims to promote trade. At Christmas it seemed to work, but now the cards are very different. This has everything to do with the worrying human rights situation in China, especially in relation to the Uighurs. That is why Europe imposed sanctions. China was not pleased with this, so that in response measures were taken against a number of European politicians, including Mr Sjoerdsma. This was another reason for the European Parliament to stop negotiations with China last May. Now there has been a stalemate and these negotiations have stopped. I ask the Minister what the latest state of affairs is and whether she agrees that these negotiations with China have stopped. What does this mean for other trade relations, such as those relating to veal? Did the Minister take a look at that, too? It is good that there are limits to trade agreements. As far as I am concerned, it cannot be critical enough, even with regard to this EU-China treaty. I await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u113	Thank you. Then we'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes, so we'll be back here by 9:55.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u114	The Minister is back to answer your questions. I would just like to say to the front that Mr Van Dijk has signed off on this part of the sitting. Then I'll go to the Foreign Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are talking about a specific sector in the field of external trade, namely the export of veal. I would like to begin by mentioning that the Protocol...... is not a trade deal but a protocol... by the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to improve market access and market access arrangements for veal from the Netherlands. That indeed took place in 2018. The agri-food sector, I think, is important because there are various debates going on here, including the calf sector, which is the exclusive responsibility of the Minister of LNV. In the case of exports of agro-products such as veal, these responsibilities affect each other and we sometimes pull together. From my responsibility for trade and therefore the export of Dutch products to countries outside the European Union, I will answer your questions, but many agricultural questions have also been asked. I would like to refer the committee to the debate with the Committee on Agriculture, or the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, because I think there are a lot of discussions already taking place there. It's not for me to walk through that, given the context. The agreements made with China on market access for veal were made on the basis of a need from China for high quality products from the Netherlands. The Dutch sector wanted to export veal. So there was no deal. It's called that in the press. It was about market access and the conditions under which Dutch veal could be exported to China. These agreements were, as already mentioned in the debate, about guarantees for food safety and animal health in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, based on the standards of the World Health Organisation for Animals, abbreviated in English to OIE. It's not about export volumes and tariffs in this deal. It is also good, I think, to remember that the total export value of these market access agreements concerns 1 promille of the totality of beef and veal, as I have just been informed. These market access agreements also talk about better marketing opportunities. This, of course, speaks to the earning model of a sector within Dutch agriculture. Then I'd like to continue with the specific questions. I will answer these to my best knowledge. There was a question about the sector plan and the scenarios. This Chamber may also know that the Chamber itself declared the debate on that sector plan controversial last Thursday. So it seems appropriate to me to keep all the related questions until the debate can take place again. Then there are a few questions from Mr Grinwis. I do not have them on the subject, but the theme I have chosen is, of course, veal exports under this market access. Mrs Teunissen and Mr Grinwis asked: does the Minister recognise that this protocol is not in line with circular agriculture? I think I can also say on behalf of Mrs Schouten that we do not recognize that. It's about improving sales opportunities to China. This is also important for circular agriculture. On the contrary, it makes it possible to make investments in the sector more sustainable. Mrs Teunissen asked: does the Minister agree that the veal deal has become obsolete? Well, it's about a protocol on market access. The cabinet doesn't think it's out of date. I was just saying that it's about improving sales opportunities. It also supports sustainability, as additional resources are available. And the arrangements themselves are not out of date. Mrs Teunissen also asked whether we should stop importing 800,000 extra calves a year. Here's what I'm saying. The Minister of LNV is committed to sustainable calf farming. In Europe, Minister Schouten, my colleague, calls for an end to the long journey time of calves. It is still over eight hours in many countries. The import of calves is subject to European rules, within the framework of free movement of goods. Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union said: "When are changes in the calf sector introduced? It has to be different, should be better, should be less." This seems to me to be a typical debate for the Committee on Agriculture with the Minister of LNV, who, of course, comes from Mr Grinwis' party. Another question from Mr Grinwis: how does the cabinet intend to prevent monopolies of large market players from getting bigger? In principle, the government does not intervene in how the regular market develops, as in the growth of companies. You can also think of that with start-ups and scale-ups. That is also encouraged, but we do keep a finger on the wrist through the ACM, which controls market power. However, the cabinet takes into account smaller parties and individual farmers through the existing subsidy schemes and so on. This is also really something for further elaboration with the Minister of LNV. I have no other relevant information to share.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u116	Thank you. Perhaps a justified appeal from the Minister. She states: I am the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I am dealing here with trade and not with LNV. I give the floor to Mr Grinwis to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u117	But I have a perfect question for the Foreign Trade Minister, namely whether she recognizes that trade agreements and everything related to them can encourage monopoly formation and market power and that they can therefore be detrimental to genuine free trade with many small free players.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u118	That's entirely up to you. We've been trading since humanity arrived, small-scale and larger-scale. I believe that Mr Grinwis is addressing concerns that have rightly arisen in the context of globalisation and the growth of inequality, economic, asymmetry in markets and, of course, the existence of very large companies. At the same time, it is about regulation, market access and quality. On the contrary, this cabinet has worked very hard on the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises and for the Netherlands in particular on trade in knowledge, in services, in technical assistance and in many other matters. Many times in the Netherlands people still think, because we are, of course, the second exporting country in the field of agricultural products, that it is only the agricultural sector, but we make our money with a lot of other products. On the contrary, many of our start-ups, scale-ups and companies have benefited from the investments made with tax money in the field of technology. Those are the beautiful growth components and they provide the jobs for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u119	Mr Grinwis, for a sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u120	Mr President, thank you. That's a general answer. Let me focus on this deal, this agreement, which will allow the Netherlands to export veal to China. Can the Minister, the Cabinet, monitor, monitor or indeed the consequences of such agreements not lead to further market power aggregation in such a chain, but that indeed the smaller free players remain as influential as possible and retain as many possibilities as before? We all know that there are a few major integrations in this sector, the VanDrie Group first, which are likely to benefit from these kinds of deals rather than smaller players. Does the Minister agree with me and is she prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u121	I'm not going to speculate on behalf of the Minister of LNV. This is part of the scenarios for the sector and that document has been declared controversial. I gave a general answer because the question was very general. At the same time, it is about market power. We live in an economy in which parties compete. To date, there is no intention to intervene on this issue. It's about regulating. In addition, the public authorities have many instruments to help small and medium-sized enterprises to make the transition. If they want to internationalize, so can they. There are many financial instruments that can make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u122	Thank you. I am looking at Mr Grinwis. Would you like to make another point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u123	My question is whether the Minister is prepared to monitor the effects on the distribution of power in the chain of, among other things, agreements of this kind is very clear and has not been answered. I hope the Minister is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u124	I give the floor to the Minister. Maybe she can direct the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u125	This really is not in the area of foreign affairs or that of foreign trade. We do not monitor chain developments. That is up to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and possibly to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is completely outside the mandate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is no human force for it and otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u126	Clear. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u127	Mrs van der Plas asked if I would be prepared to consider whether there could also be market access for the parts of the calf that cannot yet be exported and for which there is no access. So it's about the by-products. This is clearly a wish of the sector. I cannot judge whether this is a wish of a large company, or of the whole sector and all the companies that are bundled in it. I'm advised that the cabinet can discuss the possibilities with the Chinese government. That is up to my colleague Mrs Schouten. Mr Van Dijk asked Mr Van Dijk to leave, unfortunately, what is the latest state of play in the China investment agreement, the CIA. There is nothing new about this since Mr Van Dijk last asked for it. Indeed, since the last Trade Council in Brussels, it has stopped because of the sanctions, developments and major human rights concerns, but also, of course, because of the sanctions imposed not only towards a Dutch parliamentarians, but also towards other people within the European Union. The cabinet has indicated formally not to take up a position. But I have already stated systematically, in writing and during parliamentary debates, that I have great concerns about the momentum and timing of this agreement. This has now been confirmed at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u128	Thank you. That was the Minister's answer. No, I didn't. The Minister still has a number of questions to ask. I also see people on the Interrupt Microphone. Let us first listen to the final points that the Minister wants to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u129	Mr Klink asked: can the Minister promise that all exports of meat can be certified without paperwork? That's the goal, but it takes two to tango. Many other countries are not ready yet. This really depends on the trading partners, but the Netherlands is making an international commitment to e-certification. So that's the goal. Mr Klink asked whether examples of other countries would be included in the protocol of square discrimination. The sector indicates that it wants to do so. This can be another step in the talks with the Chinese government. Mr Grinwis asked whether it was wise to conclude Minister Schouten's protocol. How do we look at this? I've already answered that question. I have another question from Mr Hammelburg. What is the timeline of the scenario paper submitted? I just said, at the beginning, that the paper itself has been declared controversial. The cabinet has to relate to this. Mr Hammelburg also asked how the amendment in the Animal Law relates to the calf sector. I am advised that the Minister of LNV has indicated that she is carrying out a legal analysis of the amendment and will inform the Chamber of the state of play before the summer. Mr Van Dijk asked: how does this relate to circular agriculture and the nitrogen crisis? I've answered that question before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u130	Thank you. Those were the answers to the questions you had left?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u132	Yes. I'll take a look at the hall. I see Mrs Teunissen still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u133	Honestly, when I hear the Minister talking about circular agriculture, my ears are kind of popping. She says that this deal, whereby the Netherlands will export more veal to China, supports circular agriculture. Supports! The Minister may explain to me what is "circulation" at the very opposite end of the world of veal produced in the Netherlands. This marketing also gives us more nitrogen and more manure here in the Netherlands. So what is the definition of this Minister of the concept of circular agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u134	I once had a paper from the Minister of Agriculture of the LNV on circular agriculture and the efforts made to do so. I have been told that, since it concerns 1 promille of the export value of beef and veal, the sector itself and the Ministry consider that the money earned by improving sales opportunities for the sector can be re-invested in making the sector more sustainable. In view of the wider framework of circular agriculture, it may be possible to scale down in the future. For example, it is about reducing livestock farming for the purposes of CO or nitrogen emissions, otherwise producing or eating less meat. That's a much broader question. As Minister for Trade, I have only responded to the protocol that gives market access and not necessarily an increase in production or exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u135	I'm looking at Mrs Teunissen. I would like to make the point that, of course, the Minister for Trade is here, so I would also ask you to focus your questions on the trade section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u136	The Minister for Trade also considers it very important for sustainable trade to take place. I have heard her say that many times in debates. We have also made all kinds of agreements on this which are still far too soft for the Animal Party. However, as far as this treaty is concerned, I now hear the Minister say that the calf sector needs to expand first and that we will then use this revenue to make it more sustainable. Do you not think, through the President, that it would be a better plan if, for example, we stopped subsidies to the calf sector first? For 92% of calf farmers' income is subsidised by the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u137	And your question for the Trade Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u138	Surely you agree with me, I say through the chairman, that it is nonsense to invest first in a very unsustainable sector and then to make it more sustainable, while we can directly use that line to the transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u139	You know what? I can repeat it again. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, which I am not committed to making agricultural production more sustainable, including the calf sector. It uses instruments and means to do so. The Minister of LNV has entered into this protocol to improve market access for this sector at the request of the sector. The assessment of the Minister of LNV and the Ministry is that this is a way that can strengthen sustainability through earning capacity. If you are talking about the longer term of cycle, circular, so not just agriculture, then we still have a whole series of steps to take. But from my point of view as Trade Minister, this is about market access and a protocol that has been signed and not about a trade deal. That's a whole different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u140	Thank you. I shall look at Mrs Teunissen for one final comment. I'd say we'll move on to the second term after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u141	Thank you for the Minister's statement: we consider this transition to circular agriculture to be important. I can hear her say that in so many words. Does it then recognise that this trade deal between the Netherlands and China does not in any case contribute to circular agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u142	I've answered that before. It's not a deal. It's a protocol. They're agreements on market access. The estimate is it's not decreasing. So there's nothing to acknowledge. I have already made this point at the beginning of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u143	Then I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and look at the Chamber to see if there is a need for a second term. I see nodding faces. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Teunissen. Since this is a 30-member debate, it is a good thing that you are aware that the second deadline is one minute. If you have any motions, I'd say start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u144	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development,]] [[noting that the consumption of veal is continuing to decline, leading the sector to look for new and further markets;]] [[noting that a very large number of calves are still imported, i.e. about half of the total number of calves in Dutch calf farming;]] [[noting that transports with young calves are accompanied by serious animal suffering;]] [[noting that imports of calves for the meat calf sector do not fit in with circular farming;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan of action to phase out imports of calves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u145	Then there's a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the calf sector has serious animal welfare problems which arise directly from the way animals are kept;]] [[noting that the veal deal with China increases the market for veal;]] [[Whereas this deal maintains a system contrary to the legally recognised value of the animal;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a preliminary assessment of the impact on animal welfare and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u146	No, not about the motions filed. I can support it or not, but I still owe Mrs Teunissen a reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u147	You're absolutely right. It has slipped my mind to give you an answer. I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u148	I think you're going to have enough debates on agriculture. I'll leave it to you to bring it back at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u149	That is not necessary, because the answer is 3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u150	Good. We shall then proceed to the following speaker: Mr Klink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u151	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas bilateral agreements on veal, like pigmeat and dairy products, allow for paperless certification of exports to China;]] [[Whereas China is an exception and there is no paperless certification in many exporting countries;]] [[Whereas this reduction of administrative burden helps entrepreneurs in their business operations;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself, inter alia through bilateral contacts, to similar agreements to promote paperless certification with other countries, in particular the United Kingdom, for the export of animal products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Klink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u152	Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas trade policy should contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the maintenance of the ecological standing of our natural environment is important;]] [[calls on the Government not to conclude trade agreements whose effects will exceed the ecological capacity of our natural environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u153	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that meat calf farming in the Netherlands increased from around 400,000 slaughtered animals in 1960 to 1.65 million in 2019, with imports of calves increasing from 0% to 50%;]] [[Whereas imports of calves into the Netherlands are no longer sustainable on the current scale, not only for animal welfare and public health reasons, but also in the light of the nitrogen crisis;]] [[Whereas, apart from the use in Europe of up to eight hours of transport, there are currently no production restrictions in the Netherlands, such as an animal rights system, which does not prevent the importation of calves;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to limit the import of calves to the Netherlands and to draw up a proposal to limit the size of the sector in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u154	So far. I thank the Minister for the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u155	Thank you. Then you may surrender the motions here. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I do like to correct some inaccuracies here. First of all, the issue of lung and pleural inflammation, mentioned by Mrs Teunissen. It speaks from 30% to 70%. Those are numbers from 2012. The calf mortality rate according to the scenario study is 3% to 5%. At the GD monitor, we're talking about 2.2%. Then the shrinkage of the calf stack. The calf sector itself is thinking of a contraction of 10% to 15%. That is in the plan of the sector itself. The VanDrie Group will stop exporting from Eastern Europe and Ireland in 2024. Compared to 2009, long-distance transport decreased by 28% and the VanDrie Group's share of calves is around 60%. 70% of imports come from Germany, Belgium or Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u157	And that was another minute. You're even ten seconds past it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u158	Oh, really, is it that fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u159	Yeah, it's happening so fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u160	Okay, I'll just make you a factsheet for these participants in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u161	I think that's fine! Then I give the floor to Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. As far as I'm concerned, I don't even need that minute. I'm even gonna talk about it faster, I see. I would nevertheless like to thank the Minister for Trade for explaining this protocol. It is quite clear that the conditions are already much better than in other agreements and protocols. That really has to be said. My group is also looking forward to the future discussion on the agricultural cycle... circular agriculture. You can see that I'm not used to this word. This is going to be a very important one, because if it is up to us, we are going to reform the calf and livestock sector in a broad sense, so that it better meets the demands of the climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u163	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. A number of motions have been tabled. I imagine the Minister should check them out. She'll need five minutes for that. Then I'll see you back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin the second term of the Minister's side. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u165	The motion in part No. 69 by Mrs Teunissen, on behalf of the cabinet. There is free movement of goods in Europe. The same applies here, but the Minister of LNV is committed to reducing long-distance transport in Europe. At the motion in part No. 70 I would like to say that trade missions generally cover a large number of issues. We have a framework for international corporate social responsibility. In advance, it is not always foreseeable what it is about. On the basis of the implementation capacity and the wider framework of trade agreements, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 71 by Mr Klink, I give judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 72 by Mr Grinwis. That's a matter of standing up policy. All EU trade agreements are already accompanied by a sustainability assessment. It's called SIA. It examines the impact of specific trade agreements on the sustainability objectives. I would also draw Mr Grinwis' attention to the French-Dutch paper on sustainability and trade and the sustainability reports that are concluded and shared in the framework of trade agreements, on the basis of which Parliament can give an opinion on the negotiations on a particular agreement. So the cabinet is already doing this, but since it is a policy in progress, I will leave it to the Chamber to decide on this motion. The last motion by Mr Grinwis O'Brien is the motion in part No. 73... is actually again about a subject that has already been controversially declared by this Chamber. I would therefore ask Mr Grinwis to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u166	Thank you. Let me take a look at Mr Grinwis. Does he intend to hold this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u167	I'm gonna think about that. We're not at the votes yet. Right now, I'm not going to, but I'm going to seriously think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u168	Okay, thank you. Since it is still unclear whether or not the petitioner is going to hold the motion, I would ask the Minister to give an opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u169	Then I have to go back to the first part of the operative part: 'calls on the government to do everything in its power to limit the import of calves to the Netherlands'. That seems very difficult. Then we also need to see where the calves come from. Is this about quotas? I know exactly what Mr Grinwis is trying to do. You also have the European Union's internal market. In the second part, the request is "to draw up a proposal to limit the size of the sector in the Netherlands." This seems to be in line with the objectives of the Minister of LNV. But I would honestly think it would also be better to hold the motion so that you can just discuss it with the right committee members and also the right minister in the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u170	I understand that as chairman. Let me take a look at Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u171	The Minister's right. But the first part and the second part belong together. By maximizing the sector, the import goes down. Anyway, I'll hold the motion. Here's to it. I will hold on to the motion, but there will soon be a moment when we can put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u172	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u173	At the request of Mr Grinwis, I propose his motion (Doc. 73). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u174	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-tweedekamer-31.u175	I thank the members, the minister and the support. The votes on the motions are next Tuesday.
