ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35623, reclassification of the municipalities of Amsterdam and Weesp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Instead of the debate scheduled for today on the state dispute settlement with the Caribbean countries within our Kingdom, we are now discussing the reclassification of the municipalities of Amsterdam and Weesp. Now such a state dispute settlement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Amsterdam, the state of left-wing complacency in the canal belt, would not be unthinkable. After all, the relations with this self-explained republic of virtues and drams are much more complex than those with the Antilles. In the present legislative proposal on the reclassification it appears once again that the Republic of Amsterdam is subject to different laws than elsewhere. The beautiful municipality of Weesp, a city with city rights since 1355, is now ruled by the canal belt clique from the Stopera. To mask this annexation, Weesp is given a so-called status separate within the municipality of Amsterdam, something that is not used as a model in any other municipality in the Netherlands and is nothing more than a dummy solution, a kind of fake self-employment and fake autonomy. However, this brings us back to the story of the state dispute settlement. Indeed, the term "separate status" comes from the Papiamento and related to the separate status that Aruba had within the Antilles from 1986 to 2010. This status was due to Aruba's commitment to the autonomy of Aruba by Betico Croes in particular. In 1977 he initiated a referendum on Aruba's independence, supported by the majority of the population. In the end, after long negotiations, this resulted in a separate status and Aruba gained an autonomous position in relation to the Antillean relationship. This commitment to autonomy and self-determination in the Netherlands was taken up, but more as an example rather than as an example of redeploying independent municipalities in bushes and giving away administrative autonomy, as is the case with Weesp today. Although the people of Weesp were allowed to speak in a referendum, the choice was far too limited. It was choosing whether to reorganise with Amsterdam or regroup with the municipality of Gooise Meren. The option for an independent and independent municipality of Weesp was not presented to the inhabitants. Let us therefore follow the example of Aruba and let the people of Weesp speak out in a referendum on the independence of Weesp. Now we really need to ask the question whether the inhabitants of Weesp want to reconsider. The question then is whether or not there is support for a reclassification with Amsterdam. The PVV is therefore tabling a motion to give the people the opportunity to express their opinion on the independence of Weesp in a referendum and not to allow the reclassification with Amsterdam to continue until then. There is also plenty of time for this, as no special reclassification elections will be held for this reclassification, but elections will take place at the same time as the regular municipal elections of March 2022. In addition, the inhabitants of the municipality of Amsterdam should be able to express their views on a reclassification in a referendum. Do they want to have Weesp in their congregation in an even larger municipality in which the administration is given even further away from the citizens? We are also tabling a motion on this. This issue of administrative distance was also discussed at a previous re-organisation around Weesp in Amsterdam: the reclassification of the municipality of Weesperkarspel in the 1960s. Then the discussion focused on the annexation of the Bijlmermeer near Amsterdam. Then VVD Minister Edzo Toxopeus was not in favour of an annexation of the Bijlmermeer to Amsterdam, nor was his successor, ARP Minister Jan Smallenbroek. He didn't want Amsterdam to have any more inhabitants and power. The opponents of annexation thought that the growth of cities should be limited, otherwise the distance between population and administration would be too large, an argument which is now certainly true for Weesp. Can the Minister state how she views this argument? After a long parliamentary debate in 1964, this Bijlmer issue resulted in a compromise after the so-called Nacht van Scheps, whereby the Bijlmermeer would be temporarily added to Amsterdam for a period of twelve years. A compromise that eventually made sure that the Bijlmermeer stayed permanently with Amsterdam in 1978. Such a compromise resembles the compromise that is now being applied to the merger of Landerd/Uden around the Schaijk core, and to the reclassification of Heerhugowaard/Langedijk around the villages of Sint Pancras and Koedijk. There, too, an evaluation is carried out after two years as a compromise and then, if necessary, a border correction is considered. As with the Bijlmermeer, there is little chance that something will come of this, and it is very much the question of how much of the so-called "temporary city area of Weesp" will actually end up, or that after some time it will be added to an Amsterdam district. This system is evaluated after three years. It will then be considered whether the promise of proximity to governance has been fulfilled. What if that doesn't turn out to be the case? Can Weesp become independent again? Then what's the sequel? I'd like a response from the Minister. According to the administrative agreement Weesp-Amsterdam receives a separate board and own budget in the status of Weesp to meet specific wishes or needs in Weesp. The governing committee should become a so-called elected parliament, which will be elected at the same time as the municipal elections. Then why not just a normal municipality with a normal city council, with a real parliament? Why so different for the Republic of Amsterdam? I'd like a response from the Minister. It is also stated that this board elects a day-to-day board from among its members. "From her midst"! Is that another local return to monism? I'd like a response from the Minister. At the same time, the Board of Directors must make its deliberations within the Amsterdam policy frameworks. So that's a fake autonomy. Everything still has to be within the steeld left-hand frames of the Stopera. All that climate drama, the diversity cult and the multiculgenous leech are simply bound like a left-closing straitjacket to Weesp. This is already mentioned in the agreement. I quote: 'Weesper residents feel involved and included in the implementation programmes in the neighbourhoods'. When Amsterdam's policy frameworks are in place, this inclusiveness is mainly more multicullum, debasement, Islamisation and less of its own Dutch identity. For example, Black Piet will not be allowed to be part of Weesp. Weesp also becomes a so-called pilot area for sustainability and energy transition after the reclassification. What does this mean? Is Weesp then filled with the wind turbines, which the GroenLinksvoordende nimby's not in my backyard on IJburg and in the canal belt itself do not want in their backyard? What do the inhabitants of Weesp have to say about this later? Weesp's independence has not been directly addressed by the residents, let alone by the climate ambitions of the great Amsterdam. The Minister states that on the basis of an administrative force study, there we have him again, the term "government power" that says nothing in 2016 "after several meetings with residents and civil society organisations has been weighed that staying independent is not an option." However, that is an administrative balance and not directly the wishes of the inhabitants. In 2016, for example, there were no climate plans with a large local impact. A current demand for the inhabitants would perhaps give a different picture in the current circumstances than it did five years ago. The Minister also states that "by redeploying the inhabitants of Weesp, a stronger municipal administration will be created that will be better able to provide services and services they need." Are these people asked about their needs, if they are not even questioned about the independence of their congregation? Can the Minister state on which her statement is based that there will be a stronger municipal administration? What are the indicators for that? Or is the Republic of Amsterdam by definition the perfect government for this minister, if utopian council republic, which suits them, does not have a message to Dutch law, in favour of illegal foreigners, squatters, Black Lives Matter and other radical Left activists? In any case, the PVV will vote against this reclassification and wishes the residents of Weesp a lot of strength with the Amsterdam canal belt elite, should this reclassification continue. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned. Then I have the two motions here. I'll read it to you now. First of all, the motion on the referendum for Weesp. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in an earlier referendum the inhabitants of the municipality of Weesp only had the choice between a reclassification with the municipality of Amsterdam or a reclassification with the municipality of Gooise Meren;]] [[noting that the option of an independent municipality of Weesp has not been submitted to the inhabitants of Weesp;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of Weesp should be able to express their opinion directly on the independence of their municipality;]] [[whereas the reclassification elections for Amsterdam and Weesp are only foreseen in the regular municipal elections of March 2022 and therefore there is still sufficient time to organise a referendum;]] [[calls on the government not to allow the bill for the reclassification of the municipalities of Amsterdam and Weesp to enter into force as long as the inhabitants of Weesp were unable to make a referendum on the survival of an independent municipality of Weesp,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35623-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion for a referendum in Amsterdam. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inhabitants of the municipality of Amsterdam were unable to express their views in a referendum on the reclassification with Weesp;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of Amsterdam should be able to express their views directly on the administrative future of their municipality;]] [[whereas the reclassification elections for Amsterdam and Weesp are only foreseen in the regular municipal elections of March 2022 and therefore there is still sufficient time to organise a referendum;]] [[calls on the government not to bring into force the bill for the reclassification of the municipalities of Amsterdam and Weesp as long as the residents of Amsterdam have not been able to decide on a referendum on the reclassification of the municipalities of Amsterdam and Weesp,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35623-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. I am making this contribution on behalf of the Party for Animals. I'm also proud of Mats, Teun and Saar. One of my duties when they're with us is to tell them a story. All three of them, independent of each other, may come up with things that have nothing to do with each other. I then braid them together into coherent stories about Fifi and Foefie. They are quite good, but when I hear Alexander van Hattem, I think: I'm just a little boy; how you can put together everything that has nothing to do with each other! I would like to congratulate you on that. The next thing I noticed, by the way. I knew that the PVV didn't overflow with affinity with all kinds of population groups, but that the Amsterdammers are so pregnant part of that... I saw Eric van der Burg look nervous, of: we are just completely excluded. So much for the bullshit part of my contribution. It is clear that our two groups, the Animal Party and the SP, are not a big fan of municipal reclassifications as long as there is no clear vision of this country's administrative organisation. We have already discussed this in the debate on decentralisation. We have all noted that we are in a tough position to do so, because we see not only that there are uncertainties between the different levels of administration about tasks, responsibilities and powers, but also that the differences in levels of government are large. Today we decide to merge the 81st municipality of the country, Weesp, with some 20,000 inhabitants, with the largest municipality in this country, Amsterdam, with 820,000 inhabitants. This means that the largest municipality is getting even bigger and the distance from the smaller municipalities in this country is also getting bigger.We also have some hundred or a few thousand people living there. It will be clear to everyone that it is strange that these municipalities have the same powers taken by the bank. That is a complex thing, and I would therefore ask the Minister once again, when transferring the file to her successor, to make it clear that what this Chamber asked for almost ten years ago is a clear vision by the government of the administrative organisation of this country. Our two groups are not big fans of municipal reclassifications under the current circumstances. But for both our groups, the opinion of the people also counts heavily. In the case of Weesp, there has been a referendum. That's better than in a lot of other places. We will have to talk about this at the next redeployment. But a large majority of the inhabitants of Weesp said: well, we are willing to join Amsterdam and then together become the largest municipality in the Netherlands. I think that this should be listened to. That is also the inconsistency in the story of Alexander Van Hattem. The ruling of the people of Weesp has been clear on this point. Where it's gonna lead, we'll see. But on the basis of this data, our two groups are all the same for this bill. However, I would like to say once again that we are faced with a very urgent vision of the administrative organisation of this country, which we do not have and which we must have. Minister Plasterk once promised. We've been ten years, and we still don't have that vision. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u9	Mr Kox of the SP mentions an inconsistency in my story about the referendum in Weesp, but is it not inconsistent that the inhabitants of Weesp have not been asked whether they want to remain independent at all? There was no choice. It was just either redefining with Gooise Meren or with Amsterdam. The question of independence has not been raised. Isn't that the biggest inconsistency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u10	I would leave that to the inhabitants of Weesp. Colleague Van Hattem will often paddle around in Weesp, because the befürworting of the opinion of a number of Arepenaren is a requirement that you often get there. But then he noticed that most residents of Weesp can live with the fact that Amsterdam will be joined by Weesp and have no major problems with it. It's gonna be a while. The first time I learned about the phenomenon of action, I think in 1961, when I was surprised to see a number of fellow residents from my village "Zeelst Staats Zeelst" on the road. Zeelst was part of the municipality of Veldhoven for 40 years. Sentiments can last a long time and Zeelst is still Zeelst. Thus Weesp will always be a proud city, but now in a different administrative context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u12	But I think a majority of the population of Weesp has been clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u13	Mr Kox says: then it must be asked of the people of Weesp. That's the problem. That question is and is not asked. That is why our motion calls for this particular question to be put. Then you can still check whether the connection with Amsterdam is real. But the question of independence is the most essential question about a municipality's autonomy and self-determination. That question wasn't asked. You say, "Sailor stays Zeelst." But Zeelst is something quite different within the municipality of Veldhoven than Weesp, which is far more remote from Amsterdam. The same applies to administrative relations. Veldhoven, as Mr Kox will of course know, was in 1921 a kind of even reclassification of three approximately equally large municipalities...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u14	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u15	... and that is not the case with Weesp and Amsterdam. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u16	This was actually your third term. I'm sure you've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u17	It was 1921. In Zeelst they thought quite differently: that was pure colonialism from Veldhoven. But that's not what we're gonna talk about right now. The fact is that organizing a referendum in Veldhoven is the story of: coming to Easter with your eggs. We don't think that's a good idea. Both groups will vote in favour of this proposal, taking into account everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. This bill is the result of an initiative by the municipality of Weesp for reclassification and merger with the municipality of Amsterdam, in which the municipality of Weesp merges into the municipality of Amsterdam. Fortunately, this time it is not yet another unimaginative compromise name for the merged municipality, as is customary in recent years. For example: Gooise Lakes, The Round Fens, Waadhoeke or Meierijstad. Many will not immediately be able to place these new municipalities in the Netherlands. What this reclassification of Weesp with Amsterdam demonstrates is that municipal reclassifications can also take place with the support of the population. As far as our group is concerned, a referendum should always be compulsory before a municipality can be reorganised and at least half of the population in that municipality should be eligible as a threshold. Mr. Chairman. In recent decades, a true fusion tsunami has rolled over the Dutch polder. In 1995 there were 633 municipalities, while by now there are only 350. Especially in the last two decades there has been an enormous increase in scale. As we know, the real scale increase in mergers takes place during the end game. In terms of population, Dutch municipalities are already among the largest in Europe. How does the Minister see this? What is the optimal number of municipalities and the optimal number of provinces for the Netherlands? In addition, we are seeing more and more regional partnerships emerging through a jungle of common regulations. By now, that's 1,300. At the same time, we see provinces that are increasingly searching for their right to exist. The lack of democratic legitimacy of the many common schemes is an increasing problem, and a regional approach is often desirable. Our group would therefore be in favour of a major reorganisation. The public administration of the Netherlands costs 80 billion a year. Every year, 80 billion, 10% of our GDP. That's way too much. This should be more efficient and effective. How does the Minister intend to achieve this? Some provinces, such as Flevoland, have only six municipalities. There are also provinces with ten municipalities, such as Groningen. Drenthe's got 12. I'll just mention a few. How does the Minister see the future role of the provinces in relation to the decreasing number of municipalities in them? That's what we're wondering. We would like a concrete answer to that. In fact, our group made a number of constructive proposals during the debate two weeks ago on the relationship between the central government and the local authorities. Mr President, concluding. Our group is generally highly sceptical about further scaling up of municipalities, but in the case of Amsterdam and Weesp, in which the people of Weesp voted by a large majority in the referendum in favour of merging with Amsterdam, our group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u21	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill 35623, reclassification of the municipalities of Amsterdam and Weesp. We now need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the three speakers on this subject. It is always nice when certain subjects give rise to reflections on "the Republic of Amsterdam." Somehow that happens when I speak, and I heard Mr van der Burg take it with me. I will make a few brief introductory remarks and then I will answer the questions. I would like to emphasise here that municipal reclassification is not an end in itself. It is a means to equip municipalities for what they have to do, so their social challenges. And those challenges are, of course, big. We have certainly seen this even more after the decentralisations in the social domain of 2015, but we also see it today when tackling the corona crisis. We ask a lot of the municipalities. We ask a lot of municipalities when it comes to building homes and we also ask a lot of them when it comes to the energy transition. This means that we all, as residents of any municipality in the Netherlands, must trust that our municipality and the administration of our municipality are equipped with these tasks. In these reclassifications almost always the question of sufficient impact is the question of organising administrative power. At the same time, and with some of the speakers today, it is incredibly important that people have accessible, approachable governance. That administration must be there for all residents, but it must be there to support the most vulnerable residents, and then, of course, against the burdens that we all accept. Sometimes it's hard to achieve that. That is why I think it is right to express my appreciation here today for the solution that Weesp and Amsterdam have found. That's really customization. It is a merger of a small municipality with a much larger municipality, but with control over those things that make Weesp Weesp, I'll say. It really is a reclassification such as the cabinet and many in this Chamber who like to see it: from the bottom up and from the outside, which also looks closely at the support of the population. I would also like to say to Mr Van Hattem that a great deal has preceded that. This is not a decision made in the afternoon. It has really been a very long search for administrative strength reinforcement in Weesp. Already in 2005 they found in Weesp that was necessary. They said: we are not really able to fill in those complex societal challenges to a sufficient extent. Many other attempts have been made, such as cooperation with Gooi and Vechtstreek, but they have not succeeded. A merger with Bussum, Muiden and Naarden didn't come out either. An intensive collaboration with the neighboring municipalities of Stichtse Vecht and Wijdemen also did not offer sufficient solace. And in 2018, in a referendum that was submitted to all Weespers, they expressed a preference for Amsterdam as a reclassification partner. The council of Weesp simply accepted that outcome, which resulted in the reclassification recommendation adopted in May 2020 in the Council of Weesp by fifteen votes to two, and even unanimously in the Amsterdam Council. With this, I think they have been able to close a long search which, if the Chamber agrees, will now lead to a solution for Weesp. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to some of the questions raised, and I will, of course, end with the two motions that have been tabled. Mr Van Hattem talked about the administrative distance. I told you, this proximity is important. The municipality is the closest government that people know and you always have to think about how to organize it as best you can. So I think it is a fair question whether people can still recognize themselves in their administration. This applies not only to Amsterdam, but to all municipalities in the Netherlands. It also applies not only to urban municipalities, but also to rural municipalities. In this case, I told you: what they have invented is beautiful customization.They have made a very good appointment on how to organize that proximity. They have also thought carefully about how to anchor people's participation in the way it is organised and how to strengthen local democracy. I would also like to congratulate the current city council of Amsterdam, because they have included this as an objective in the coalition agreement. But I think it's, more than that, actually in the capillaries. Again, specifically for Weesp, agreements have been made about this that fit what Weesp wants. The question Mr Van Hattem raised was: how do we know that it will remain so in the future? It may look nice on paper now, but what if it is disappointing in practice? One thing is certain: if this law is passed, Weesp will soon be part of the municipality of Amsterdam. In the end, it is up to the city council of Amsterdam to decide whether it is well organised and whether the proximity of government is properly secured in this way. If that is not sufficient, the Amsterdam City Council can consider this and make proposals to improve it or otherwise amend it. Then there is the question about the board, which elects its own day-to-day management. I believe that Mr Van Hattem referred to this as a return to monism. I'd really like to fight that. This follows from Article 83 of the Municipal Law, which allows municipalities to set up administrative committees. The Municipal Law does not further regulate what they should look like, but simply creates the opportunity to do so. It is therefore up to the municipality concerned to fill that out and determine how the committee is to be composed. In the administrative agreement between the municipalities of Amsterdam and Weesp, the current two municipalities agreed on what the administrative committee would look like: it is an elected representation that is elected at the same time as the municipal council at the time of the municipal elections. There is also a choice for a general administration and a day-to-day administration. This is not prescribed by law, but it is provided for between Amsterdam and Weesp. The Management Committee shall elect a day-to-day board from among its members. I do not think that you can say with this construction that it is a return to monism or that there would be any talk of monism at all. The future merged municipality of Amsterdam also remains dualist. Finally, Mr Van Hattem asked whether we can justify that the governance will be really stronger. With the accession to the municipality of Amsterdam, there is not necessarily a better administration, so if Mr Van Hattem suggested that, I agree with him, but I think that Weesp's choice to become part of the municipality of Amsterdam will increase the administrative power of organisation. The issues at Weesp are also about housing and the availability of suitable housing. They are also about organizing youth care: can you provide care on time for the young people who need it? They are also about infrastructure issues, such as the railway node at Weesp. That is what they need and for that they have made this choice. I can follow that very well. I listened carefully to Mr Kox, who also spoke on behalf of the Animal Party. I hope that the whole contribution was also on behalf of the Animal Party, including how it is going to be voted, but I am not entirely sure. I see him nodding; nice. I listened to him very carefully. I believe that Mr De Vries said that two weeks ago we had a nice policy debate on central and decentralised decentralisation. That was about the organisation of the Netherlands. I said at that time that the vision that the cabinet and I have on the classification of the Netherlands is that the basis is that the foundation ever laid by Thorbecke is like a house, I would almost say. But in there, given the huge task we face, there is simply a need for customization. We have municipalities, provinces and the Empire. Many forms of cooperation are needed, also regionally and even if that region does not exactly coincide with two municipalities or with one province, because otherwise you simply cannot manage with each other. You have to make it as insightful as possible. We will also have a debate here about another legislative amendment, the Common Regulations Act, where you can see, for example, that there is a kind of democratic deficit in it if you are not careful. You must be careful to keep an eye on the control and involvement of the people's representatives in these partnerships. But we will discuss this in another debate. Mr De Vries asked what the ideal is, how many municipalities and how many provinces you should have, and how these common arrangements fit into it. I also said, in that other debate, that I do not believe that there is one uniform scale for an ideal size of a municipality or an ideal number of municipalities in a province. Because in the small country we are, there are very big differences. That's right, there are provinces with a lot of municipalities, Brabant for example, there are also provinces with relatively few municipalities. I don't think it's a better or worse. I think you should look for what fits, what needs to be. Sometimes, for example, regional cooperation can fit very well in a province because it is more or less similar to that province, simply because of the geographical conditions. Then one province can do more. Sometimes things really happen at the intersection of a number of provinces and a number of municipalities. Then they will have to do it together and make agreements about it. So there is no ideal size. A fact is that we ask many of the municipalities and have also left much to the municipalities to responsibilities and powers. So they've been given a relatively large task package and of course they've grown larger since 2015. This means, however, that we must ask ourselves again and again how we should equip this administration with the tasks they have been given and how, where they say there should be more regional cooperation, we can even better organise regional cooperation and solve the democratic deficit. But again, a few weeks ago we discussed this very extensively. I would also like to report to the next cabinet that will really have to pay attention to this. Finally, two motions had been tabled under the letters C and D. I can make some comments on both at once, because the motions actually say that there should be another referendum in Weesp and that there should also be a referendum in Amsterdam. I have also often said here that the question of whether a referendum is being held is something that local authorities themselves have to decide on. I think it is very important that municipalities always ensure that they take their inhabitants with them, even when it comes to reclassifications. If they choose to hold a referendum, very well, but it is their choice. Weesp has chosen to do so and has done so after years of attempts to achieve a reclassification or merger, including with other municipalities. In the end, they reached this reclassification through a referendum. Mr Van Hattem says: Yes, but they did not submit the option "do you want us to remain independent?'. No, but why not? Because Weesp had already noted years before that self-continuing was not an option. So they didn't submit an option that wasn't an option, according to the city council, and also according to the city council of Weesp; I think that's very important. Amsterdam has not chosen to present the merger with Weesp and the reclassification with Weesp to the entire Amsterdam population. As an Amsterdammer I think I can guess what the outcome would be. I think the Amsterdammers would have welcomed Weesp in such a referendum, but again, the city council of Amsterdam has chosen to run it through the city council and not through a referendum. So I have to discourage both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her first-term reply. The Minister stated in her reply that there had to be an adequate effort. She introduces the term "administrative power" here. That is striking, because before we had the term 'administrative power', which is completely meaningless, is nothing to measure and therefore has been under discussion for a very long time. I would like to hear from the Minister what exactly this 'administrative power' should be and what it can be measured in concrete terms. Or is this a new label for the somewhat watered-down concept of "government power"? I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Then the Minister says that Weesp would be about tailor-made work. This immediately raises the question of how the inhabitants are involved. Or is it just customization with the current municipal administration, which also does not unanimously support this merger? She talks about "preserving control" about things that Weesp Weesp make. Maintaining control is very limited, as I have already argued in the first term, because everything falls within the framework set by the Amsterdam City Council. In concrete terms, therefore, there is very limited control. Maybe there's just a garden, a sidewalk and a zebra pad to be designated, but that's about it. The steel frames from the Stopper are still imposed on Weesp. Can the Minister state once again what specific that retention of control is going to entail? Can the residents of Weesp really go against the city council of Amsterdam when it is decided, for example, that Weesp will become a pilot area for wind turbines? Because the Minister has not yet answered the question about that pilot area. Are we going to put all Weesp full of wind turbines because they are not allowed to stand at IJburg? Weesp has the motto "Weesp is water," but Weesp should not become the drain of Amsterdam. Then I come to what Mr Kox said in his first term: the situation in Zeelst in the municipality of Veldhoven. He was talking about "Zelst stays Zeelst." That has indeed been the case, but I think that this discussion does not focus so much on the municipal reclassification of 40 years before. It was at that time that unique character of Zeelst. All small hamlets and farms had to make way for large-scale housing making it unrecognizable. My family originally came from there, too. They had a farm there - so I know about the situation. That was mostly the resistance. What you can now get is that Weesp will soon be designated by the municipality of Amsterdam as the area for the pilots for the energy supply. And that is where those wind turbines, solar fields and other misery come to get around climate policy and not on IJburg or within the canal belt. I would like to hear from the Minister about the pilot for Weesp in the field of energy and sustainability. The Minister agrees that the administrative proximity is important. However, how much administrative proximity is there when, as a relatively small place, you are in such a large urban connection with districts and districts that often have many more inhabitants and sometimes have quite different interests? Then I come to the final point: the choice of holding the referendum. That has been the choice of the municipal government and not of the population. If the Minister had argued that the people could have chosen to hold a referendum, we would have had a completely different discussion. This has only been an administrative choice and not the choice of the population itself. I would like to hear from the Minister how the population is actually involved in this choice, apart from the choice between either Amsterdam or the Gooise Lakes, i.e. the bullet or the noose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u25	This is the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u26	I see another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u27	So do I, but I'm asking you if this is the end of your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u28	Yeah, I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u29	That's it? Yes. Thank you. Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u30	I have a question about Mr Van Hattem's motions. The motion in which the inhabitants of Weesp are asked what they want, whether they remain independent or not, is something we can well follow. The other motion proposes asking the inhabitants of the Republic of Amsterdam, as you call it, what they want. Now Weesp is about 2% of Amsterdam, if it is added. And in your first term, you have been quite fulminated against the Republic of Amsterdam, which amsterdamizes and swallows municipalities like Weesp. Is this referendum useful to the people of Amsterdam? Even if an overwhelming "yes" comes out of that, you can also repeat that argument and say: look, Amsterdam wants to swallow up Weesp; we should not do that to them. So why also a referendum for Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u31	Yes, I have indeed completed against the Amsterdam elite board at the Stopera. But ordinary Amsterdammers should also simply be involved in the reclassification of their municipality. I say that with every municipal reclassification. In my opinion, any municipality concerned should hold a referendum in which the people can express their opinion. After all, they are all equally involved. This can also have an effect on the inhabitants of Amsterdam. Maybe you get the situation that, so to speak, a large part of the Amsterdam city council finds Weesp a much more attractive area to live than the rest of the city. Maybe they prefer not to live somewhere in Nieuw-West and go live nicely in the beautiful Weesp. Then Amsterdam will soon be run by directors from Weesp. Perhaps the inhabitants of Amsterdam are not waiting for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u33	It may also have an effect on the ozb, it may be that it has an effect on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u35	Do you want a referendum in principle and always? Do you really think it is of added value to ask residents of Amsterdam to speak out if they want that relatively small Weesp?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u36	You are now asking the same question again. I'm sure you'll get the same answer, but we're gonna listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u37	Then I would like to put the question back: why should the inhabitants of Amsterdam not have that right? It is a merger of two municipalities and in each municipality concerned citizens should have the opportunity to speak out. Suppose the situation is that, for example, Weesp would be in a very poor financial position and in a deep red state, which would mean that the residents of Amsterdam would have to pay more ozb or that similar circumstances would arise. They should also be able to express their views on such a situation. Anything can have an effect, and it's up to the residents to give that judgment. If both the inhabitants of Weesp and Amsterdam say "fine, we are a good marriage together," then you can move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u39	But then they should both be given the opportunity to do so on equal grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you in a position to respond directly? Then I will give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, after the connection to her microphone has been restored. I see it's been pulled out. The Minister has some extra time to prepare. Is he doing it again? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u41	Yeah, the light's on and everything's cleaned up nicely. That's all going very smoothly here. I would like to answer the last of the questions put by Mr Van Hattem. He asked what administrative power means. Whatever you call it is less relevant to me, but the point is that the municipalities can handle the tasks they have to carry out. Administrative power or strength: it means that they must be able to cooperate with others, that they must be able to provide services not only with other authorities, but also with developers, housing corporations and so on, and that they can provide for what the residents are entitled to, that they are equipped to do so. This is meant by the words administrative power, administrative power and so on. That's why Weesp spent so long looking for a partner or partners to do that. They found that they could not deliver it themselves. Is it true they're losing control of everything? No, it's not. I have just said that they have agreed a formula that gives them control over a number of important matters, such as the establishment of public space, well-being and the level of provision. They have just recognized the speciality of Weesp, who wants to become part of the greater whole: the character of Weesp must remain recognizable. That's exactly what they forced through those agreements. I think that's very sensible. They've been budgeted for that, too. Then the pilot sustainability. Mr Van Hattem once again sketched all kinds of ghost images that are not based on facts in any way. This pilot is included at the request of Weesp, who would like to do a pilot on sustainability. It is also about sustainability with the help of residual heat, geothermal heat, etc. Perhaps Mr Van Hattem does not know that Weesp and also the Diemerscheg are no search area for wind energy; that is not evident from his words. Mr Van Hattem is calling for a ghost image that is not based in any way on the facts. Finally, on the referendum, on which Mr Van Hattem came back. I have just outlined in detail the choice of the city council of Weesp to involve the population in this way, with the result that what is ahead here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-eerstekamer-5.u43	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the bill next week. I propose that we also vote next week on the motions tabled. Then we came to the end of the meeting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Minister and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
