ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue with the debate on the Home Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have 11 minutes to speak. It may take a little longer, but that depends on the reactions in the Chamber and on the chairman himself. Anyway, the mother department. It is a pleasure for me to cross swords with the Minister of the Interior 15 years after I had my first performance here at the turn of the century. It is now time to discuss the budget on behalf of JA21. Many of the things that still motivated me then and now to become politically active are playing and are interrelated with this minister's department and this Secretary of State. This concerns citizen participation, administrative renewal, bureaucracy, the civil service and the functioning of our democracy. I also have to say that we haven't made much progress. A number of things have even gone downhill. We have seen the referendum abolished. Citizens are allowed to colour a red box once every four years. We also see many electoral promises watered down again in grey compromises and compromise. There is not much influence for the Dutch. The government was expanding. More civil servants and more rules. We have seen this among the three Rutte Cabinets: 11% more rules, 17% more laws and 1,000 new rules in ten years. That's a hell of a lot. The most prominent headache case on the board of Minister Ollongren is the housing market. A great deal has rightly been said about this in recent months. There is indeed a WHO, a separate debate on the housing market, but it is of course very strange if we continue to deal with the budget for BZK without paying attention to the housing crisis. So a few words about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u4	One moment, please. Why do we have a WHO? The Chamber has decided to do so because this is a very important subject. That is not very many subjects given. This is in order to be able to give much, broad and concentrated attention to it. As I have just said to Mr Dassen, I honestly do not think it would be wise to devote speaking time to this, because there will be no reaction from the cabinet either, because I hope it will reserve it for the WHO. So I really wouldn't advise you to go down this path.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u5	Okay, Mr. Chairman. It's everyone's choice. I think that without a natural gas-free built environment and without living there is hardly anything left of this budget. So it's good to name that here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u6	It's up to you. I am not going to take the floor, but I refer to Rule 8.15 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires me to keep you on the subject. And the subject today is the budget of the Interior and not the subject of living. I made that clear in advance. We all agreed to that. So that's what I wanted to say to you. Mr. Van Haga, do you have a comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u7	I think that's a weird thing to do. For smaller groups it is almost impossible to be present everywhere. An inimitable amount of debates is planned, with many overlaps between committee debates and plenary debates. Then the planning is not clear in advance. There's only a week in advance. It is therefore completely impossible for smaller groups. Then there is the issue of split-ups, in the sense that you have to participate without support and without sufficient speaking time. I am in this now and I have exactly the same problem as Mr Eerdmans. I think it is perfectly normal for you to talk about living within the Home Affairs budget as well. The fact that other people want to do that again in a WHO is fine, for the greater honour and glory of everyone. But it is impossible for a small party to meet these kinds of requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u8	I take note of that. It's all up to you. I would point out, however, that the agenda is not set by a small group here. This also happens in full democratic decision-making in committee meetings and in procedural meetings. Mr. Eerdmans, I'm not gonna keep you and myself any longer. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is, I think, one of the biggest projects of this minister: to build natural gas free. So in addition to the WHO, on which I fully agree with you, it is just right to pay attention to it here too. I don't think we're gonna make it through just a legislative consultation. Mr. Chairman. Your own home, your own home, your home: that has actually become a luxury product from a primary need for life, you might say. That housing crisis is not a natural disaster that has happened to us either. But it is, I think, the result of beating policies and obstructive regulations. We see the sustainability requirements, landlord levy and nitrogen crisis. They have all crippled the construction and exploded the price of existing houses. At the same time, in the 2019 precorona year, we saw a net increase of more than 100,000 people in terms of population growth. And at the same time, in this Chamber, it is very often about the ambition of a million houses in the next ten years. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er dus 100.000 per jaar.]] I have a very simple question for the Minister: does she now recognise that, under unchanged policies, we are not building to solve the current housing shortage of 330,000 houses, but only to facilitate that increase in population? Let me make it clear: we would like to close the borders of the Netherlands temporarily, given the problems of the housing market, the facilities, the very difficult integration among many immigrants, our whole social model, the overcrowded reception and asylum seekers to be taken care of in boats and hotels. The rack is out as far as we're concerned and the border is reached. Take the housing of 11,000 status holders, who have to get a home somewhere in the Netherlands this year. There is simply no room for them. A tour of the NOS earlier this year showed that in a quarter of the municipalities you have been on a waiting list for a social rental house for at least seven years. In many municipalities it is more than ten years, and even the twenty-year limit is exceeded in a number of places. In more and more municipalities, you are without a chance if you are not already registered for a home from birth. That is a bizarre situation with great consequences. Young people can't take another step in their lives because they have to live at home until they're 30. Or they are forced to move against their will from where their roots lie, with all the consequences for social cohesion in many villages in our country. In the meantime, all these municipalities are forced to house status holders. And almost all municipalities still leave these status holders under the emergency regime, giving them priority in the allocation of a social housing. But pointing to municipalities is a bit too easy, I think. Is it not a distraction, I ask the Minister, of what national parties are doing, namely to sweep the consequences of their own policies a little under the carpet? Because whether the urgency regime is in place or not, the municipalities of the cabinet must each year give a fixed number of status holders a residence. And if that doesn't work, the county will intervene. You know that, too, from your previous functions. So the municipalities just have to pull the wallet. In short, the priority regime for status holders is a symptom of the real problem: the targets that come from the Empire. Does the Minister agree with me that the freedom for municipalities to give priority to status holders should actually be removed? The cabinet continues to force the municipalities to house the status holders, doesn't it? Then there is another untenable file: to free natural gas from the built environment. I just told you. In our view, this is an invaluable operation, which is organized entirely by residents and, as far as we are concerned, is doomed to failure. It is also an operation that does not serve any purpose, because even the most harnessed climate fundamentalist will have to recognise that the built-up environment is responsible for only 13% of greenhouse gas emissions, and that this mega-gap is completely wiped out in the blink of an eye elsewhere in the world. Take China. Over the next few years, they are going to stamp new coal power stations out of the ground on a large scale alongside dozens of new airports. The total CO reduction that you would achieve in the Netherlands in 2030 via natural gas-free homes will be in three hours in three hours! It was released in China. So whatever you think about it, the climate argument simply doesn't justify that mega-project. My question to the Minister is: why are you doing this? Why do we want this? How many expensive test gardens have to fail before the plug goes out? Mr. Chairman. I saw a neighborhood in Purmerend in NRC Handelsblad. That's the test yard overwhere. Am I saying it so well, with "where" on his English? At least I'm talking about Overwhere-South. This is a neighbourhood that has long been the lifeline of those who advocated the natural gas-free project. That's where it's gonna be. And out of fear of their job, officials anonymously declare to the NRC that the D66 alderman Van Meekeren for a long time knowingly held on to a totally unrealistic ambition and planning in their eyes, in order to make a beautiful decoration towards the reclassification elections there. The officials who did say something about it were ignored and the project leader who raised the unfeasibleness of the project was dismissed. I quote the person in the NRC: "I concluded that the financial management and planning of the project are not in order, and that there was no transparent communication." In his opinion, the whole project ultimately serves "especially to keep the alderman politically in the saddle." I think you can't describe this whole project better than this: an unrealistic green prestige project over the back, but out of the taxpayer's wallet. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is it true what is said here? What do you think about the fact that even such a project, a mocked project in Purmerend, seems to be a game of political interests? It seems to me unlikely that there would have been any contact between the department and the municipality of Purmerend. Is that right? I'd like some clarification on this. I would also like to know if you have been aware that this project has been seen as unfeasible all these months. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the municipalities are on the brink of water. We see in big cities that that's risky. There may be dangerous gaps in psychiatric youth and elderly care. The Commission of Wise Men has reported on this. There is not enough money for young people in the Netherlands who need help from 2023 onwards. As far as JA21 is concerned, we cannot simply place that risk with the municipalities. I would also like to hear a response to the understandable fuss that has arisen about the re-evaluation of the Municipal Fund. Dozens of municipalities are hit hard with discounts that, for example, in the case of the Limburg Gennep botweg go up to €150 per inhabitant. Municipalities fear that this could mean the end of swimming pools, libraries, sports clubs and music schools. This is an unacceptable course of action, which also seems to be motivated by the imposition of unpopular mergers on small municipalities. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. How will it implement the advice of the ROB, the Public Administration Board, to investigate further the consequences of that review before it is implemented? Mr. Chairman. This year, Dutch people received the largest local charge increase for years. In fact, according to COELO, local charges increased by 6.2% for property owners and 8% for tenants in the largest 40 municipalities in 2021. It's way above inflation. The ozb, the waste tax, the sewer tax, the dog tax, the parking permits; they are all more or less used as milk cow to close the gaps in the budget. The picture for the coming year is not quite clear, but we assume that it can be even heavier local burdens. Looks like it's only a matter of time. Those heavier local burdens are used, for example, to finance the energy transition, because there are quite a few municipalities missing. The cabinet itself makes EUR 70 million available for it. That is far too little, says the Council for the Public Administration. They are talking about EUR 1.8 billion. In short, there's a hole there too. Are the municipalities going to be called up for this again? Or are the residents approached by higher charges? That is even worse as far as we are concerned. I think it's enough for a lot of people. Purchasing power has already hit too much. Mr. Chairman. Is it then nothing but trouble and pain in this budget? We don't think so. As far as we are concerned, there are also good things, such as the work of the AIVD, the fight against terrorism in an increasingly difficult environment, legitimate attention to dangers such as digital espionage, cyber threats and foreign interference, the fight against the fake news and fake news, and the Democracy in Action programme. However, anyone who sets out all the developments of recent years will not be surprised that more and more voters are turning away from national political parties. Almost 30% of the Dutch voted on a local party in the local elections. That was the highest score ever. The CDA was more than twice the size of the CDA at the local level in 2018. It could be happening! Then the CDA became the second party. The popularity of these local parties is, I think, quite explainable. It's going on and on. National parties seem to be alienating themselves more from the residents and local parties are the sober, normal alternative legs in the clay.. stand for their cause and are a relief to many voters. In two thirds of the municipalities, a local party also participates in the college of B and W. The quality of such a party is therefore important. I think the Minister recognizes that as well. 'Cause they're doing a lot of work. Yet it is unfairly distributed in the Netherlands. We know that national parties receive subsidies and not local parties. They have to pass the doors and depend on donations. That's where they got it from. That's not fair. We would like to do something about that. We can do that through an amendment or a motion. I have already asked a number of colleagues how they look at this. The VNG wants it, too. The Veling Committee has made a clear statement. The Minister also looked into it. In short, doesn't this minister think it's high time we actually made a level playing field? So if national parties get subsidies, then so do the real local parties. I believe there is a proposal from the VNG for 10 million. Before writing the motion or tabling the amendment, I would like to know from the Minister whether she is going to correct that crooked situation, in fact that discrimination against the local parties, in, for example, the forthcoming law on political parties. If not, I shall consider a second-term motion with other colleagues. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Mr President. We can say that the past cabinet period has been a major stress test for domestic administration. The challenges of youth aid, social support and participation remain high. Then the corona pandemic came over again, including the implementation of emergency support, digital meetings of the municipal councils and then an updated election. The SGP is committed to expressing its appreciation for the many good work done by stress-resistant drivers, civil servants and aid workers. Much appreciated for that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to be the first to talk about the Municipal Fund and the municipal tasks. The discussion continues as to whether municipalities have sufficient financial resources to carry out their tasks. Indeed, we are happy to enter into this discussion, but I am now focusing on the proposal that has been made to create a new distribution system. The public administration council's analysis has strongly alarmed the SGP. That is an extremely critical opinion. The Council also explicitly states that this path does not go further. It calls for a serious review because the world of the system is not sufficiently in keeping with real practice. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she shares the SGP's view that now is not the time to experiment with a new system without looking at the concrete consequences and that more thought and more balance is needed. How do we prevent small and medium-sized municipalities and municipalities with a specific health profile from being affected? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has reached a line through the forced reclassification of Scherpenzeel. The story that major challenges must lead to economies of scale is often too easy. The legislator must do as much as possible justice to the wishes of local communities. Unfortunately, there was a nasty aftertaste in this decision, which, by the way, was not on the Minister's account, because the acting mayor was then dismissed by the King's Commissioner after a few hours. The SGP is independent of the fact that he came from SGP-songwriters, it is unsatisfactory that the dismissal of an acting mayor seems hardly regular. It's the first time this has happened. This is the reason for us to explain to the Minister whether it is not wise to look at this procedure again, so that there are sufficient checks-and-balances in it, also in view of the enormous impact it has, not only on those involved but also on such a community. If you put your ear there to listen, that means a lot. In short, does the Minister see reason to improve this, in line with the procedure for appointment, for example? To be honest, what I am also curious about is whether the Minister knew about the imminent resignation? Was the minister informed in advance? Was the city council consulted or informed in advance? Our reports are that this has not been the case, but that could also clarify the value of adjusting the procedure. Mr. Chairman. The government and the employment agreements for people with disabilities. The situation has not been the best for them in recent years. Guidance at the workplace, for example, was often not possible. Nevertheless, the government has created additional jobs. Appreciate that. But we do have some concerns about the limited content of these jobs. It is often about practical work at lower wages and not also about higher positions. My colleague Mr Stoffer, with his motion, also wanted to help that last group, and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs fully supported that commitment. Then my question is: why has this broadening, which was pronounced by the Chamber at the time of the motion, disappeared again in the case of the transfer to the Home Office? Does the Minister see opportunities to offer more opportunities outside the existing labour pool within higher positions for people with disabilities? Let me turn to the issue of subsidies for youth organisations. Of course, every political party recruits young people and tries to interest young people in politics. That is a very good thing. It is also crucial for the future. It is therefore right that these political youth organisations should be supported by public funding. Against this background, however, the SGP does not understand so well that the government wants to put the importance of the number of members into perspective in these subsidies for political youth organisations, which can be a huge drive to involve more young people in the organisation. No less remarkable is the fact that youth organisations were not approached in the run-up to the legislative proposal and that the government wants to be satisfied with a communication prior to its entry into force. My question to the Minister is: why should the Minister not engage actively in this discussion with them? Also: do political youth organisations have a timely view of the changes and opportunity to deal with blows properly? Mr. Chairman. Then the point of the accessible government. The corona period and measures have also underlined once again that more and more citizens are dependent on digital communication and services. We see that only 4% of government websites are fully accessible. Then my question is: what sirens and flashing lights will the Minister encourage in order to achieve rapid and substantial improvements in accessibility? Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, we found the distressing message that with the permission of a cemetery manager in Amersfoort, dark practices took place at night in children's graves. Last week, my colleague Van der Staaij asked questions about the criminalisation of grave desecration. In this budgetary procedure, I would like to work towards maximum prevention of these abuses, because they do not appear to be incidents. The letter from the mayor of Amersfoort states that this psychic group does these kinds of investigations more often at home and abroad. Does the Minister share that this is unacceptable? Is the Minister prepared to discuss the prevention of these practices with the VNG and with mayors? Mr. Chairman. Last year I drew attention to the role of municipalities in the robbery of Jewish real estate in the war. It was nice to see that several municipalities themselves started research in the past year: appreciation for this. In the meantime, however, it also appears that the scope and quality of the studies may vary considerably. In a single case, after a study of a week, it was even reported that there was little to report. That would require a little more care, wouldn't it? Is the Minister therefore prepared to work with the VNG to find out how expertise can be shared and more unambiguous, possibly together with Jewish organisations? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a point about the Constitution. He too has suffered quite a lot in corona time. That is understandable in itself. However, in the opinion of the SGP, it is precisely when it is difficult that we should consider the Constitution not as an obstacle, but as an ally. It identifies frameworks and provides a basis and foundation under our rule of law. The SGP is concerned about the handling of the Constitution in recent times. In short, flexible notes, sturdy theories are involved which, on closer inspection, really require a more detailed justification. As examples, I would like to mention the issues of the MPs who are going to be outgoing directors and the arrangements for succession. Choices are made on this subject with minimal justification and prior advice. The SGP raises the open question: what steps does the Cabinet intend to take in order to do more justice to the fundamental nature of the Constitution in such situations? Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it at that in the first term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u12	I won't stop you. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking to the coordinating minister in the field of anti-discrimination. The bitter conclusion is that discrimination is still a major problem in our country. Racism and discrimination are deep in our society. Whether it's about finding an internship, a job or a home, we can see that groups of Dutch people are still being structurally excluded on the basis of prejudice. That's a disgrace. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, as a government, we need to do much more to get racism and discrimination out of society. That is why DENK has for many years felt that more money and more effort should be made to combat discrimination and racism. That's what we've been thinking since we were founded. I have already said to this Minister that we find the amount going to combat discrimination too modest. Too rigid to do what needs to be done: more awareness campaigns against discrimination, more inspection capacity, more investment in institutions such as the Human Rights College and even more in ADVs. I refer to the introduction of alternative forms of punishment, such as an educational measure, discrimination, scaling up mystery guest studies, in even more areas than is currently the case, and making sure that something happens to those investigations. Setting up a specialist team against discrimination in all police units, increasing the penalty for discrimination, investing even more in reporting: President, it needs more, it needs to be more decisive and it needs to be even better, to get discrimination out of society. Does the Minister share the view that more money is simply needed to eradicate discrimination and that we need to do more in the coming period? Mr. Chairman. A number of DENK-motions have been adopted in the past period that specifically focus on the fight against discrimination. We read in the budget that it will come to fruition in the autumn. I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to give an update on the state of implementation of our motions. Mr. Chairman. I also ask whether the current anti-discrimination policy is actually effective enough. The Social and Cultural Planning Office shows that the discrimination rates have been at the same level for five years. In the first study, 4 million Dutch people experienced discrimination. In the most recent study, this figure again turned out to be 4 million. That brings me to the question of whether we are really measuring the effectiveness of anti-discrimination policies at all. The previous answer to my written questions showed that the government indicated that it is not quite clear which indicators are being used for this. How's that? And what about the total budget we spend on combating discrimination? In the same answer to my written questions, the government indicated that it is not entirely clear what we as a government are spending on combating discrimination, that expenditure is fragmented and that not everything is labeled as anti-discrimination. That is why we would like this to be clarified and a separate budget line to be included in the Home Affairs budget, specifically with regard to expenditure on discrimination against the whole government. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to a motion by DENK and D66 there is a National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism. Why is it that, as stated in independent research, a budget of 2 to 5 million is not invested in this National Coordinator? The money we see now doesn't go that far. On this point, we are considering a motion. Is it true that this coordinator has no role in investigating the government of his own country? Shouldn't such a coordinator be just a watchdog who also says something about the government? Within our ranks not everyone was positive about the appointment of this National Coordinator, but we do ask this National Coordinator to work hard in the coming period and we will follow him critically. Mr. Chairman. In order to combat discrimination and racism, our government must set an example. There would be a public scrutiny of discrimination on the basis of a motion by DENK. When's this screening gonna get here? As far as DENK is concerned, the penalties for professional discrimination by public servants must be increased, and there must also be a reporting obligation for discriminatory behaviour throughout the government. I'd like a response from the Minister. DENK also wants the oath to be adjusted. As far as DENK is concerned, prospective officials must swear or promise that they will treat every Dutchman equally during their term of office. Does the Minister share this? Mr. Chairman. DENK is seriously concerned about discriminatory algorithms. We have seen the examples of this in Amnesty International's report. As far as DENK is concerned, the use of nationality and ethnicity in algorithms should be prohibited by law. We ask the government what exactly it is going to do in the coming period to eliminate discriminatory algorithms in the government. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two points, on the Municipal Fund and on the step-by-step principle. For the sake of clarity, I agree with the contributions made by other Members on this subject. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to finish with a point about eternal grave rest. The Netherlands is a diverse country and a diverse country also includes different customs, cultures and wishes. The same goes for saying goodbye to a loved one. For Dutch Muslims and also for Jewish Dutch people, religiously, the requirement is that grave rest should be perpetual. Especially lately it appears that there is not enough offer for Dutch Muslims of graves with everlasting grave rest. Islamic cemeteries are full and the creation of new cemeteries with eternal grave rest is difficult and cost a lot of money. That sometimes leads to painful situations. It is difficult to realize the farewell of a loved one, and the demand for graves with everlasting grave rest will only increase in the future. More and more Dutch Muslims say: The Netherlands is the country where I live and where I want to be buried. That's why DENK wants the government to take responsibility for ensuring that more cemeteries are realized with eternal grave rest. That is why DENK presents an initiative paper for the realization of enough graves with eternal grave rest. I would like to hand over this own-initiative paper to the President through the messenger, and we look forward, of course, in the longer term, to a reaction from the government to this own-initiative paper. Mr. Chairman. To conclude, a word of thanks to colleagues Semih and Esra who have worked hard on this initiative paper in the background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u14	See, that's always nice. Without our employees, we're nothing, don't you think? Thank you for this piece, and we'll make sure everyone gets their hands on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u15	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u16	Then I shall continue to give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for ensuring good public administration. That is a huge task, and that in a society that has also been hardened by corona, in which people increasingly look at their own interests rather than the collective interest. A society in which more and more people are asking for individual customization and services, a society that is rapidly digitising and a society that increasingly demands and takes care of transparency. In such an environment, the Ministry of the Interior must ensure that efficient and effective work is carried out in cooperation with municipalities, provinces and water authorities, which are quite autonomous. They are given money to carry out their tasks, but they do not have to answer for them or hardly have to answer for them. I'd say get on it. Of course, not everything is flawless. That is what my fellow Members have already spoken about today, and I will do it later, because it is up to Parliament to see to it. But I would like to say today to the directors and all their associates who are committed to these tasks with heart and soul: thank you for your great commitment to everything that has gone well. That is also very much in this increasingly difficult environment context. Then there are points of attention and issues where extra effort is needed: digitalisation. The Ministry aims for a society in which everyone can continue to participate. In recent years, the world around us has been digitized at a rapid pace. Letters are hardly sent anymore and conversations are now held via email or WhatsApp. We make photos with our smartphones and even processing can be done with your phone. They are special and also beautiful developments that underline the power and future of technology. Unfortunately, however, these changes are not so self-evident to everyone. If, like our elders, you've been used to paying with cash all your life, for example, it can be quite difficult to use complicated banking applications and smartphones all of a sudden. Smartphones are generally not always the easiest items to use for some people. That brings me to the point of digitization of the government. In the coming years, the Ministry of the Interior will focus on further digitisation of the government and communication between citizens and government. One of the objectives is to secure and inclusive digital public services. There are parts of the population that may find it difficult to follow this ever-increasing digitalisation. Think of some elderly people, e.g. migrant elders, low-literate people or people who are illiterate. Does the Minister have any idea of the impact of the action programmes on this subject? What are the results of the Alliance Digital Living together? During the corona pandemic, a large group of elderly people successfully got their fingers crossed on how to make video calls with their grandchildren. It was touching to see how they were reunited with their families in this digital way in the corona period in a very lonely time for many of them. But to be perfectly honest, I do not assume that it means that this group is now immediately able to participate in all digital activities without difficulty, such as extending a driving licence or a passport. So please let us make sure that this group is not excluded and continue to actively accompany them with further digitisation in our country. The budget talks about more youth participation. That is good, but I see another important role for the younger generations in the Netherlands. Is it not an idea to actively involve young people in guiding groups in our society that will have more difficulty with all digital changes? And not just young people. I have previous experiences with organisations such as Facebook, Google and for example Samsung Netherlands, which can also be very supportive. Pilots initiated in my previous function were very successful. Is the Minister prepared to look at a national programme in which young people and organisations, together with the Ministry, help target groups such as older people, so that they can continue to participate in digitisation and manage themselves? Or is this already being designed in the Alliance Digital Collaboration? Mr. Chairman. Digitisation also involves a greater increase in online disinformation. In the last year and a half with the corona virus, we have all been able to see how dangerous wrong information can be and how much value we as a society must attach to reliable scientific information. I therefore think it is very important that the Ministry should tackle the problem of disinformation. In fact, disinformation can also lead to further impairment of confidence in politics. We Members of Parliament can talk about that, and we can talk about it. Small things are sometimes enlarged on social media and sometimes in the press, and not always hear and hear. People just believe what's written on it. It is important to learn at an early stage to distinguish facts from emotions and opinions. This is not only a task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also of OCW, of the press and of all of us. It is a difficult task, but it is an important one, because it determines how we treat each other and how we judge each other. However, disinformation is not the only reason why there is no trust in each other and in politics. I spoke in the debate about the final report of informant Remkes on the lack of trust, values and standards in this house. These are the very foundations of a political system in which the Dutch can and must have confidence. If we want to restore public confidence in politics, then we will first have to look in that mirror ourselves. If we cannot show that we can treat each other constructively and respectfully, we cannot expect citizens to trust us again blindly. We have an important task to ensure that citizens regain confidence in politics. How does the Minister see her role in this? Mr. Chairman. Mrs Arib referred to Article 68 of the Constitution with regard to the Wob procedures. For ease of reference, I will not express the part of my contribution on this subject, but I agree with what Mrs Arib said about it. I come to the revision of the benefit system for municipalities, and in particular the finances of the municipalities. Municipalities represent an immense task. They have responsibility for the implementation of three important laws: the Wmo, the Participation Act and the Youth Act. Like the VNG, I believe that municipalities should not be given a task if they are not also financed. And of course it can be more efficient and better in some places, and the government must also be helpful in this. In my view, it would help to gain a better understanding if we looked closely at the accountability of the municipalities. For it is not possible, for example, for money earmarked for youth care to be spent on other matters. In my view, there should also be more frameworks for basic services to be provided in all municipalities. Surely it can't be that an elderly person with dementia in one municipality can go to daily spending and the caregiver is well supported, while in another municipality it is not? Suppose you move to another congregation, to live closer to your children, and then suddenly nowhere can go because those facilities are just not there. Does the Minister agree with me on this? And what opportunities does it see for identifying frameworks for essential basic services to be provided in each municipality? The Ministry of the Interior also indicates that the cost of youth care needs special attention with regard to the re-evaluation of the Municipal Fund. And although in some municipalities the problem may be money, the problem is really at a very different level. Experts indicate that a major cultural change in youth care needs to be considered here: thinking and working differently, and organising differently. More cross-domain cooperation is needed to provide lifelong guidance and more knowledge sharing is needed. Is the Minister prepared to talk to these experts, together with the VNG and VWS, to look at an effective and efficient solution direction, and thus to achieve a well-functioning youth care? Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to have spoken about living too, but I am very glad that a separate consultation is planned for that. This also deserves living, one of the biggest challenges in the Netherlands. Furthermore, I look forward to the answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State. Let's all realize that finding trust is the hardest thing to do, and losing trust is the easiest thing to do. So as far as I'm concerned, there's work to be done for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you. Mr President, residents at home and people in the gallery. The Home Affairs budget is about many different things. She talks about Groningen, about democracy, about the promotion of several languages and about the Municipal Fund. I would like to highlight these five issues here today. According to the Minister, important steps were taken in 2020 and 2021 to accelerate the reinforcement operation in Groningen. Administrative arrangements have been made...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u20	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u21	...and there's money reserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u22	You've only reserved two minutes, and apparently you're going to spend it on Groningen. That's also part of the WHO Living and Space. It's up to you, but I'd like to point it out anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u23	I've reserved four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u24	Two of them in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u25	If I go over that, it will go over my own time with other budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u26	That's right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u27	I'm gonna start over, because this way it's a little annoying. That's not because of you. Then I'm distracted and it gets a bit of a messed-up story. So I'm just gonna start over. It's gonna go from my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u28	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr President, people at home and people in the public gallery. The budget of the Interior is about many different things: Groningen, democracy, promotion of several languages and the Municipal Fund. I'd like to highlight these matters today. According to the Minister, important steps were taken in 2020 and 2021 to accelerate the reinforcement operation in Groningen. Administrative agreements have been made and money has been reserved. For Groningers, however, there are no steps and agreements, they want butter with the fish. Let's get to the facts. More than 85,000 people have multiple damage to their homes due to gas tremors. More than 176 000 claims have been submitted up to 2020. Over 30,000 claims still have to be dealt with. There are 120 inspectors working on earthquake damage every day. There are over 200,000 people with damage. A total of 2,990 old damages cases were reported to the arbitrator between 2016 and 2018. In 2020 more than 210 homes were demolished in Loppersum and Appingedam. Over 2,000 addresses are threatened with demolition. The NAM bought 116 properties. 90% of the national monuments are damaged. The NAM has reserved 18 billion, because it thinks this is the total damage. Then there is an example from practice, one of many by the way. A resident of Loppersum reported damage in 2014. She was immediately offered a tip of €2,100. €2,100 for damage of over €200,000. The same woman was then sent from dialogue table to gas consultation, but has still not received any compensation: zero cents, seven years after that. What does the Minister actually think is an acceptable lead time for resolving an individual damage caused by government transactions? And then just as a resident of a house. What does the Minister think would be acceptable if it happened to her? Mr. Chairman. Home Affairs is also about a strong and vibrant democracy. All intentions in this area are commendable, but also unopposed if citizens do not get or have faith, because the system fails, as in Groningen. BBB would like to see a pop-up minister or secretary of state for earthquake damage. A person who is completely concerned with the settlement of this black page in Dutch history, as long as it is necessary. What does the Minister think of such an idea? And if the minister doesn't like it, why not? Mr. Chairman. Local parties still do not receive national money without representation in the Lower House. That is really ridiculous and democratic-undermining. National parties can put millions out of the national treasury in the campaigns of their local brothers and sisters. However, local parties have 30% of all seats in municipalities. In fact, they are the largest national party in the Netherlands, but they are not allowed to steal from the Hague ruffle. Very crooked, very unfair. This has to change as soon as possible. As far as BBB is concerned, local parties receive an equivalent party subsidy on the basis of the number of seats in the municipal councils and provincial states, as national parties in the Lower House now receive. Why does the Minister continue to postpone this measure and when will it be arranged? Mr. Chairman. According to the budget, the Fries, Lower Saxony, Limburgs, Yiddish, Romani and Papiaments are also being promoted. Well, I'd say get the cow by the horns. Let us start immediately by carrying out the motion and the 2020 commitment on the Frisian language. Can the Minister indicate how the motion on the Frisian language is being carried out? Then the Municipal Fund. In 352 Dutch municipalities talk and decide these weeks about the budget for the coming years. Budgets of which the contribution from the Municipal Fund and other contributions from the national government constitute the bulk of the revenue. Twice a year get a letter about how much money you get and then after all kinds of distress signals again occasional amounts to fill holes. A new division between municipalities, whereby municipalities that have been well adjusted to the pennies receive less than others. De Groene Amsterdammer wrote two weeks ago how The Hague disappeared from the Netherlands. In the countryside, the nearest school, library, hospital or ATM is further away. People have to beg if the library or the village hall can please stay open. That's not workable, is it? It's also unfair. Continuity in policy and money is necessary and should not depend on The Hague's whims and formation dance movements of potential coalition partners. BBB wants the agreements on the Province and Municipal Fund to be complied with with with municipalities from 2018, including the agreement that extra financial space in the Empire will lead to more money for these funds and the citizen does not need to be used as a milk cow, for example through a higher ozb. Can the Minister explain why she seems to be rejecting this agreement? Why go down the stairs together and why not go up the stairs together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you very much and I would like to inform you of the following. I just told you that Groningen fell under the WHO Living and Space, but there is a separate WHO for Groningen on 29 November. I just wanted to make that right. This concerns Article 5 of the Economic Affairs budget and Article 10 of the Internal Affairs budget. There is one other point, to make a point. Mr Van Haga said just now: yes, that agenda is being drawn up here only a little bit in advance. The WHO on Living and Space was decided in committee on 9 September. That was almost two months ago. That does not seem to me to be a very short time in advance. We do not need to have that discussion here, but I would also like to say that the viewers at home understand that we do not just sit here and schedule meetings a few days in advance. That would be very bad. Having said that, I am going to give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The chair is very low. I'll take that a little personally, but maybe I'll look longer. That's a big wish too! This was another five valuable seconds, Mr. Chairman. I'll count them. Mr. Chairman. I'm happy to praise myself. I'd like to start with that. I congratulate myself on the work that I am allowed to do here as a Member of Parliament. I have a roof over my head and an income with which I can offer myself and my loved ones security. I am grateful for the fact that I have food on the table every night and can relax in a warm bed. I praise myself more and more. My gratitude grows by the day, because if the Chamberwork has made me more and more clear in the last few months, day by day, it is that there is so much misery in this country that the things for which I am grateful and myself may be happy are even less self-evident to many than I thought possible. That's hard for me. I have to share that with you, Mr. Chairman, and with the Chamber. For the outgoing Prime Minister, the Netherlands is a "cool country." For Mr Segers, "fresh courage" is enough to mitigate the harsh blows of the terrible stories we hear every day, but it is not for me. What gets me out of bed in the morning and what strengthens me every day in the work here, but also in my dealings with others, is love. Love for those who work hardest and never get it back. Love for the people who take the time to write to me and tell me their story. Love for the fact that experiences are entrusted to me in the hope that something can be done with them. And love for the dream I have for my granddaughter: a better, more equal and solidarityable Netherlands, in which hopefully she may grow up. That is not cool and it is not fresh courage, for that love is also steeped in anger and sorrow; they go hand in hand. The stories people share with me I know that many MPs like me are flooded daily with stories from citizens in their mailbox... and the misery that we see every day is caused, are maintained and get no solution thanks to this government, no matter how often the stories here in this house are trivialized. In fact, I keep thinking about senseless police brutality. I am thinking, of course, of the supplement scandal, of the growing homelessness, of the housing crisis and of youth care. I'm thinking of all the people left behind in Afghanistan. We have also heard today the sad news that one of the people on the list to be evacuated by the Netherlands actually died. I'm thinking NCTV and ethnic profiling. I'm thinking of the young man I met this week on the way home from the Chamber and who asked me for some change. I didn't, because who has cash in their pockets these days? He called me and said, "Hey, ma'am, ma'am!" When I turned around, he said, "Hey, Sylvana! He knew me, and I had no idea who he was except a homeless person in the dark. When I asked him where to sleep that night, he said, behind this, under the bridge. Mr. Chairman. It's all so poignant. There is no other way than to consider what is at the root of all these abuses and of all these crises, crises in which citizens are not protected by the government, but should have been protected against the government. I keep wondering how it got this far. It cannot become clearer in 2021 that policies, laws, regulations and decision-making in the Netherlands can have fatal consequences for citizens, and that it takes only a decade to completely destroy people, but that building stolen years is virtually impossible. As far as BET1 is concerned, the follow-up step is therefore simple: the establishment of a constitutional court. Earlier this year, this Chamber has already adopted a motion to delete Article 120 from the Constitution so that judges can review laws against the Constitution. We are now waiting for legislative proposals that should actually be put into practice. In addition, however, it is most important that we also investigate how and when a constitutional court can be established. How are we going to restore the trust between government and citizens that has been so completely destroyed? How are we going to ensure that fundamental rights and human rights are no longer violated by this government? It's all so poignant, because even a year ago, when millions of people went out on the streets of the world calling for black lives to matter, the call was very simple. It just came down to respecting the Constitution, human rights and black people. I cannot often emphasise how important it is that we tackle racism in all its forms, but also validism, sexism and transphobia thoroughly and adequately. I agree with Mr Van Baarle. Cases in which institutional exclusion prevails always slip through our fingers. And then, as a citizen, we stand powerless against the beast of a machine called the government. The question is whether the newly appointed National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism will have sufficient perseverance to effectively combat discrimination and racism with a national programme, both in the European Netherlands and in the Caribbean Netherlands. Against this background, it is a matter of regret to see whether such a national programme can achieve enough concrete actions to expose and counter the colonial and unequal relationship between the Caribbean Netherlands and the European Netherlands. We also hope to see that the programme brings the government back to its right and duty to ban organisations that discriminate structurally, insult groups and/or sow hatred. Racism is not an opinion. And will the programme succeed in ensuring that existing anti-discrimination laws are enforced more strictly? Will the programme succeed in extending existing legislation by drawing up a legal definition of 'racism', 'anti-black racism' and 'islamophobia' which reflects its structural nature? And will the government allow the National Coordinator to fully free up clothing and abolish laws that promote discrimination and undermine self-determination, for example by banning nikab? Can a single programme be used to address the measures needed to combat group-building, digital bullying, doxing, discrimination and calls for racist violence on social media? And what about a budget of EUR 2 million, such a comprehensive and comprehensive programme? 2 million euros! How important do we really think it is? Once again, the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism is welcome, but although the positions of national coordinators are important to combat anti-Semitism, discrimination and racism, the separate positions do not reflect the scale, the interculturality and the problem of institutionalised exclusion. National coordinators are nothing more than temporary patches and should lead to an entire ministry of equivalence. There is also much to be done on the issue of digitalisation: it has also been regularly appointed today. Amnesty International's report on the supplement scandal showed once again: we can only end the use of racist risk profiles and discrimination based on social class. Finally, Mr President, I am bringing it up here today, because I can only be in one place at the same time with my one seat and I am always on a standing committee on Monday and therefore cannot be in the legislative consultation. The housing crisis also needs more than patches in the form of a few million less pressing out of the social housing sector. The landlord levy has no place in a fair housing policy. If we take the housing crisis seriously and do justice to the state's popular housekeeping duty, we will abolish it today. As well as the mortgage interest rate deduction and, more importantly, the cost-sharing standard. Do we all consider that what we maintain is a literal fine on living together with people with the lowest income, with all the horrible consequences of that? Mr President, I also ask the cabinet through you to deal with house milkers. Living is for people as far as BET1 is concerned and not for profit. It's a human right, it's pure necessity. So why isn't there always a serious consideration of introducing a general and non-transmissible residence obligation, so that a house remains a house and isn't an investment object? Are we going to actively maintain the fight against emptiness and speculation? Can we actually respect the right of Roma, Sinti and trailer dwellers to live in caravans and also, for example, give them a living career and not think: they already have a place, 20 square meters. That's very hip nowadays; then we call it a tiny house. The Ombudsman repeatedly reminds us of the fact that we are also seriously failing to do so. Can we actively and generously contribute to facilitating housing locations for them and ensure that municipalities make an active contribution to this? The common thread is that, in terms of human rights, our fundamental rights, the rights we are all born with, there are still worlds to be won in this country. Even if this cabinet continues to delay and avoid these conversations, BET1 will remain here to remind this house with love and sorrow that there is too much suffering in our country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet stumbles from crisis to crisis and almost every crisis is the result of government policy, the almighty State that thinks it knows better than individual Dutch people. We are in the midst of the corona crisis, which has become a real crisis due to the state measures and which has now been trampled on Article 1 of the Constitution. But for a real bureaucrat, one crisis is not enough, and that's why the government plunged us into a nitrogen crisis, a pfas crisis, a housing crisis, a supplemental affair, an energy crisis and a climate crisis. Farmers must be afraid of their businesses, entrepreneurs are increasingly taxed and looking for a home has become a torment. Many of these dramatic results are the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. My first question is: how does the Minister look at these crises and does she not think that she is partly responsible for all of this? The energy transition of the built environment is such an example of a government-induced chaos. Firstly, the bureaucracy is appalling. The Hague bureaucrats produce all kinds of nonsensical regulations on the conveyor belt, such as the Renovation Accelerator and the care of building owners. The best caretaker of building owners is a government that does not interfere, a government that is thriving on our tax money so that taxes can be reduced. Secondly, there are often wrong choices. For example, money is spent on the incentive scheme for natural gas-free housing, while the rest of the world is convinced that natural gas, i.e. ch4, methane, is the cleanest hydrocarbon we have. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree with the Dutch interest that the removal of natural gas from homes has no positive effect on the environment in the short term? And of course it's good to properly isolate all houses first. But can't we think of anything better than 150 million euros worth of vouchers for draft stripes? The patronage by the government knows no boundaries and it would be better to leave the isolation of homes to the well-understood self-interest of the residents. Simply reduce the burden on living and then people are really smart enough to determine whether they buy draft strips, have double glazing installed or install solar panels. Does the Minister agree with me that people themselves are perfectly capable of determining where the highest return for their homes will be obtained? Mr. Chairman. Then there is another incomprehensible point, namely our 56,000 municipal monuments and 62,000 national monuments. You will only live in a monument, because it is currently impossible to make a monument more sustainable. Municipalities work actively against and therefore the owners and residents of monuments for the outdoors. And that while there are wonderful technical possibilities to make it more sustainable in a responsible way. I also drew attention to this recently in the debate on the Climate Agreement and the built environment, but without much result. So again: does the Minister recognise this unnecessary problem and what will the Minister do about it? In 2022, EUR 144 million will be made available to the Heat Fund to install heat pumps and make homes natural gas free. Both the financial and technical returns are negative, and so the environment is only getting worse. Does the Minister agree with the Dutch interest that expectations regarding the efficiency of heat pumps, for example, need to be drastically adjusted? Mr. Chairman. Well, let's go to the housing market. I'm afraid to call it "market" anymore. In a functioning market, demand and supply are in balance, but with all kinds of incomprehensible government measures, the housing market has become completely out of control. First of all, the question. With a shrinking Dutch population, you would expect demand to decline, and so prices to fall. But none of that, because the almighty government allows 100,000 migrants a year, causing demand to explode over the last ten years. This year, this will only get worse because tens of thousands of migrants from this cabinet will be given priority over house-seeking Dutch people. However, if demand increases as the government increases demand, then you would expect the government to adjust the supply accordingly. But the opposite has happened. The Netherlands has actually been in a construction stop for ten years, because that same unreliable government drives away investors, no longer spends land, sets sustainability requirements, demands a large percentage of social housing and makes permits impossible. Add all the requirements for pfas, nitrogen, asbestos and COop and you have the perfect cocktail for complete standstill. Dutch farmers are struggling in the Netherlands, but Dutch builders are in the same marxist hell. Wouldn't it be an idea to have corporations build social housing, but to ban municipalities from demanding this from private companies? Mr. Chairman. Then the reinforcement operation in Groningen. This file is similar to the supplemental affair. How many houses are still to be strengthened and how many houses has this minister actually strengthened in the past year? This blundering government is drowning people in bureaucracy, uncertainty and fear. By stopping producing from the Groninger gas field we leave 600 billion cubic meters of gas, so natural gas, in the ground. Even with the gas price of two years ago, this represented a value of many hundreds of billions of euros, and the gas price is now eight times higher. In addition, there are technical solutions to maintain pressure in the field by water injection or nitrogen injection, reducing seismic activity. For let's face it: the problems have been deliberately aggravated by increasing production to absurd heights. Between 2010 and 2012, no less than 55 billion cubic metres per year were produced. This massive overproduction has actually led to more earthquakes. Mr. Chairman. The importance of the Netherlands suggests a different policy. We continue to produce from the Groninger gas field, but then at a low production level of for example 12 billion cubic metres per year, and all Groningers in the mining area get a house that is earthquake-resistant and also huge compensation for this cabinet's malpractice. This is in the interest of the Groningen and in the interest of the Netherlands. (NL) Mr President, finally, a cri de coeur with regard to the democratic content of the House of Representatives. Thanks to the Bishop-Commission, dismembered MPs have been granted B status since 2017. The result is that there is hardly any budget for support, speaking time is cut by half, there is no voting rights in the committees and we must ask for permission to participate in a committee debate. The question is how democratic this is now. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she does not think that this undemocratic error was not due, among other things, to the fact that the Bishop Commission did not take into account the number of votes a Member of Parliament received in the elections. On March 17, 2021, Pieter Omtzigt received as many as 342,000 votes, a multiple of the number of votes that most MPs received. I myself obtained 241 000 votes, and together with the other Members in my group, Mr Ephraim and Mr Smolders, even 247 000 votes, enough for four seats. In recent years, I have heard all the parties here plead for the support of counterpower and the support of democracy. Perhaps you can all, and the Minister in particular, think about how democratic it is to deprive dismembered Members of Parliament of their speaking time and their support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u34	I have one final point to make. The Minister is not about what we offer facilities here. We're gonna do that all by ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u35	It's a well-known fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u36	Fine. Thank you very much. That is, I think, also Mr Bosma's point? Yes, that's the case. That concludes the first term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-7.u37	I would like to thank the directors, their officials, the Members, of course, for our unfaithful support in every possible form, and the people in the public gallery and elsewhere who have followed the debate. We will continue this debate tomorrow.
