ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	Thank you very much to the Minister for his presence here in the debate on the amendment of the Foreign Labour Act in connection with the future-proofing of labour migration legislation. Of course, I would also like to welcome the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Let's start with Mr. Wiersma. He has indicated that he needs ten minutes in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr President, thank you. Today we are talking in the Chamber about a law that regulates labour migration. Of course, we are happy with people who come here to work. This means that people want to come here, and want to do work that we either cannot do ourselves, or for which there is little enthusiasm. It is therefore important that our legislation is tailored to the needs of the Dutch labour market. This means, on the one hand, protecting the interests and jobs of Dutch workers and, on the other hand, helping employers to find labour if they are not within the Netherlands. And it is very tempting to talk about the whole, wide-ranging problem of labour migration. In fact, perhaps we would like to talk about the problem of migration in a general sense, and how it affects the Netherlands. Because that also requires conscious and fair choices, including in connection with the Dijkhoff motion, which asked for scenarios on demography. But also, for example, in connection with the Roemer report, and many specific incidents from the past few weeks. But, Mr President, none of this debate is about that, so I'm going to restrain myself. This law is not about labour migration within the EU, but about labour migration from outside the EU. I'm gonna say a few things about that last point, and I'm gonna get to the law in no time. Because some people don't just come here with good intentions. We need to focus on that. We need to protect our entrepreneurs from workers who deliberately come here in order to dodge our entrepreneurs' business secrets. Investico published in early February an investigation showing that our knowledge migrants scheme is fraud-prone and that Chinese organisations accused of espionage can still be recognized referees in the Netherlands. This also applies to Russian companies whose directors are on international penalty lists, or companies whose directors have also been prosecuted. Such organisations can thus to this day be recognised referees in the Netherlands. According to the IND, that's a reliable organization. And so these organisations can also easily admit immigrants. Take the Confucius Institute. The FBI warned in 2018 that this club is a threat to our national security. In recent years, several migrants have been brought to the Netherlands by the Confucius Institute. But I also mention telecom giant ZTE from China. That company had to pay a billion-dollar fine in the US for violating sanctions against North Korea and Iran, and it was also identified by the US as a threat to national security. I call it uranium One Holding, a Russian state-owned nuclear energy and weapons company. The chairman of this company has been on the European sanction list since last year for involvement in the poisoning of Russian opposition leader Navalny. And apparently these organizations are still on that list as "reliable." The AIVD warns about espionage by Russia and China in all recent annual reports, yet these countries are among the top 5 of the knowledge migrants scheme. In 2019, over 500 Russians came to the Netherlands, and 530 Chinese. And our arrangement is even listed there as a "lifestyle visa." Can the Minister respond to the article, and the in-depth investigation that Investico has done? And does he also recognise that the types of security risks mentioned are so urgent that they deserve all the attention? And can the Minister also help us explain how we are doing this now? Is his assessment sufficient, or does he think there are any improvements to be made? And if so, where does he see it and where can we achieve these improvements? Because we can also rely on the fact that, for example, a conviction abroad makes all the alarm bells ring? And what is the Minister's reaction to the statement made by the AIVD here in the Chamber two weeks ago that we are lagging behind those security checks on knowledge migrants and doing too little? Does the Minister agree with us? Is the Minister prepared to tighten that up? Because speed now sometimes seems to be at the expense of safety. It often has to be assessed in two weeks, the knowledge-based immigrant does a short check, and then it's up to the employer to assess it. After that, the IND relies on that assessment. Is that enough? We would like the Minister to check by default with high-risk referees of this kind whether the referee is a threat. So I'm referring to that security check. We do understand that the sign of the AIVD and the IND is full, but as far as the VVD is concerned, it is their core task to keep an eye on who in our country wants access to important information and processes. If it turns out that people are indeed here with bad intentions, for example to spy, then they should not only leave, but also be prosecuted, with high prison sentences of at least four years. Minister Ollongren is investigating the criminalisation, but does she also share our urgency that this cannot wait for a new cabinet? Spying must be a criminal offence. We do not just want our services to be alert to this, we want a security check to be introduced by default. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the changes to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Before proceeding on this point, I see an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	The risk of espionage is serious. I find it a little complicated who is speaking in an IND debate. I almost wonder whether Mr Wiersma would not like to invite Mrs Broekers-Knol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	I think there's been a very serious investigation into knowledge migrants. We are talking here today about the Foreign Labour Act, which affects knowledge migrants. In my opinion, we should all be very alert in any debate, but certainly in this debate, if knowledge is used in the wrong way, if it threatens national security or even if there is espionage im Frage. To D66 I would say: think along with how we can solve that properly, instead of asking here how we can move it to another table. I would like to ask the Minister what we can do about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	This trick doesn't fit Mr. Wiersma. The crux is that, in my opinion, the VVD has already asked questions about this matter to Mrs Broekers-Knol and has received an answer. I find this truly complicated. I share Mr Wiersma's concerns, no misunderstanding, but I do not want asylum procedures to last longer, for example. I believe, for example, that if we invest more in the IND, the VVD will have to deliver butter to the fish and that the IND will also be given more resources. I notice that the words of the VVD on these points are often much greater for the abuses than for butter in the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'm not following this. If it was a trick, I did a trick I didn't know I could do. So thank you. We have asked questions about this in the input, which has been answered. We have concerns about those answers. Those worries come because there is a check in the Netherlands. Advice is also given by the IND, but also by the UWV. The UWV is the hub in this. He's asking for advice, too. The question then arises when advice is requested from the AIVD. We say: look carefully that you do not only do this on the basis of Dutch convictions, but also see if such a recognised referee, before we put him on the list of reliable parties, can really be trusted at all. This is very relevant to the labour market, to the question of whether employers can rely on a well-informed immigrant and whether they can get someone into the home of a payroll company, whatever you hear, some of which have already been convicted. That's what we don't want. So I think it is very logical to ask that question in this debate. Is it just this minister's responsibility? No, I don't think so, I think it's wider, and I think that question is addressed to the cabinet. But the minister is here as a representative of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	My question was like another one. We talked about the implementation of the Bosman Commission. One of the lessons is that we can all play extra roles with performers, but if you don't make money and make the rules easy, you get accidents. My question was: if tasks are added to the IND, of which Mr Wiersma and I know that there are already considerable delays there and unfortunately the Secretary of State has still not managed to resolve them, should you not also have the conversation whether you are giving the performers the means to do those tasks? I think that is one of the great lessons of unprecedented injustice. My second question, to which Mr Wiersma has not yet answered, was whether I can find him on my side when I say that there is extra money for extra tasks in the IND, for example. Because that seems like an important lesson. That was my question to Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	If that is the point Mr Van Weyenberg is making, I can, of course, support it. That's a no-brainer as far as I'm concerned. It's got to be executable. A very comprehensive report by Ernst & Young, published two weeks ago, also identifies various steps and improvements in the field of implementation, especially at IND. It seems very wise to me that a next cabinet should pick it up. It is logical to ask whether you have the means to do so and whether you need to do so. This question goes a little further than the IND. This concerns whether the AIVD is not going to investigate the IND; the AIVD is being asked for advice from the AIVD to look not only at convictions in the Netherlands, but also outside the Netherlands. Are you on that international sanction list? Are you mentioned by the FBI as a dangerous company? Now these organizations are just on the list here and they're gonna stay on it. Then I say do an extra loose check. Ask the AIVD to do that. It is therefore about the capacity of the AIVD, but it is also a core task. I understand that the question always focuses on speed and care, but it is also about speed and safety. That's a slightly different consideration. I am therefore looking forward to the Minister's reflection on that consideration. Mr. Chairman. I come specifically to the amendment to this law. Migrant workers wishing to work in the Netherlands from outside the EU must be licensed to do so. As far as the VVD is concerned, the specific labour market needs are important. If there is a labour market shortage, entrepreneurs want to be able to switch quickly. And rightly so. They must therefore be able to rely on a reliable labour force. Just like that immigrant, he also wants to rely on protection against poor working conditions, against underpayment and illegality. Both are reflected in this proposal. My group can be brief about the improvements for migrant workers: they are just good and we support them. It might take more than that. That is why we tabled an amendment here last week with the support of many parties to improve registration in the BRP. But a lot of things will be dealt with. The Minister has already put this in a planning and in a timeline. There are two other points, starting with the grounds for rejection of the UWV if the employer has not been able to demonstrate an effort to find labour closer to home. That rejection ground was optional for 2014. In 2014 he became stricter and mandatory, but he is now released again. My group lacks a more thorough analysis of the proposal on this point. Can the minister still give it to him? For example, what were the experiences in the period up to 2014? And what were the experiences after 2014? Is there an evaluation of that? How, for example, does it work out for entrepreneurs? Concrete cases on this matter are lacking in the explanatory memorandum and also in the reply. We are not yet convinced of the need. It could also be more of a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	There is a question from Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	It is precisely on this point that I saw that the VVD Group has tabled an amendment. I just heard the little debate on corporate espionage. I understand the VVD is worried about that. Although I share that much of it lies in the area of Justice and Security and Foreign Affairs, I think that can be requested here. But I'm very doubting. In this debate, Mr Wiersma asks for the justification, but he has already tabled an amendment in which he says: we want to tear this out. When I read the explanatory statement in the answer by the department, I think Mr Wiersma is right about the beginning. We are talking about a very small group of migrant workers from third countries. Compared to total labour migration, very few people are involved. We see that less than 10% of that small group of people go through the main route, as all kinds of constructs, covenants and exceptions have been created because the main route is perceived as too clingy. I read that there are two reasons for making this small legislative amendment, which also looks at a limited group. This is first of all to ensure that a main route becomes more common rather than all the exceptions that are made. Sounds like something to me. Then the second. Mr Van Weyenberg just referred to the Bosman Committee. The Bosman Committee in its recommendations is very explicit about the fact that, after everything that has gone wrong in the implementation, we need to give the professionals a little more professional space to consider. That is the second reason for doing so. In this very limited group, we now see that employers sometimes opt for a derogation because it is clear, alongside all other tests, that there are no priority groups. This does not have to be done, which is not in line with the literal advice of the Bosman Committee to give the UWV a little more space for a professional consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	That's not so crazy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	That's a good question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	Well, I think that's kind of crazy. I've been thinking about it. Mr. Heerma started with: it's a small group after all. I get that. That actual group of migrants applying for employment permits under this scheme covers more than 13,000 people in 2019. So those aren't the knowledge migrants, but that's the other group. In recent years, this has become more and more so. I see people shaking no, but it says that a total of 13,000 employment permits have been issued. That's what Mr Heerma was talking about. Then it is the small group that takes the full labour market test. That's 800, or something more: 880. That's what the full test is for. But Mr Heerma started with two small groups. Let me just say that we have some concerns with that first group. It's getting bigger and bigger. So you also have to look at why, for example, we are making more and more exceptions. I also think that you should look into these exceptions to see whether you can find someone in the Netherlands or in Europe. Or can you find someone closer? My amendment is about ensuring that it remains a full labour market test for that whole specific group, which has more than 800 people in the full labour market test. That was the case in 2014. We've changed that. So I'm also asking what kind of numbers or numbers were there at the time that we have less, so we have a concern. So I'm just missing that argument. I wonder if there is an evaluation of this and what it is based on, except for the sentence about being more flexible and a labour market shortage. In my view, it is real that we are asking for this kind of debate on which it is based. That's my question. Then, politically speaking, I have a concern that the group that gets an employment permit at all is getting bigger, and that I see that these exceptions are becoming more and more widespread. I have a concern about that, too. I think that we should look more specifically at labour market relevance. We don't always do that in the exceptions. That is why I think it is dangerous that if you do allow UWV to take a full labour market test, then you suddenly find that irrelevant at all and that you may put that as an option to base that employer's commitment. I think this commitment is logical and I think that a lot of good employers are doing very well and demonstrate that. We should not let the evildoers take advantage of this and give them ample work to bring people here, when that is not necessary and with it we can help Dutch people to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's not gonna work, Mr. Chairman. Now I'm a little rusty on this file, 'cause I've been out for a few years. I've been just reading in a little bit for the last few days. The number in that group is fluctuating. It was 13,000, but it has been an x-number of years 10,000 and last year it has been less than in 2019, which is also understandable seen corona. Mr Wiersma says he's worried about that group, but the interesting thing is that the difference between those 13,000 p.a. that's often 10,000 p.a. and that 800 p.a. is often in exceptions. I'm referring to the covenants. Mr Van Weyenberg did not make himself unworthy on the issue of Chinese chefs, but so did the VVD Group, because she wanted exceptions to be made. That's where the difference is: the test isn't done. Part of this bill is that that group of 800 is being made somewhat larger, at least that is the intention to do so not with all kinds of covenants, but in the law. It is right that Mr Wiersma has questions about this; that is what this debate is for. But he seems to have already decided with the tabling of this amendment that this is a bad idea, whereas you can still question his own argument. More importantly, therefore, I cannot be quite brief: Mr Wiersma has not answered the second part of my question. The Bosman Committee was very clear. Here in the Chamber we talked about giving more space to the execution and not to arrange everything piecemeal. This is a very small and very specific group in which a little more space is given to the professionals in the execution. This is true in situations where it really is only an administrative burden and in which it is obvious, entirely in line with the advice of the Bosman Committee. And then the VVD says, "Don't do it." My question is, why not? Can't you do that better for that small group and give that space and properly monitor what the effects are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	I am not convinced by what Mr Heerma says. I'm telling you the truth. When it comes to the effort obligation: an employer must prove that. I think that's reasonable. It goes to UWV. It is not that UWV indicates that this would be unworkable in the execution at all. That's not in an execution test either. I always understand the implementation and think that it should be relevant, but that should not mean that we can easily get people out of the country while here we could help Dutch people get to work. That's not the movement we want, is it? That's not the movement I know from the CDA either. We are critical of whether people need to come here. If that is not necessary, we also want to check whether they can find work here in the Netherlands. That is the second point. Then the first point...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr President, I really have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	You're being challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	What Mr Wiersma should not do is when he starts his input by explaining himself that this is a limited legislative proposal on a limited group, when there are questions about the content of the law when dealing with the legislative proposal, there is a bit of an argument here as if we are having a 30-minute debate on a failure. This is about the law. As a Chamber, we have a duty to deal with legislation carefully. I believe that this is part of everything that the Bosman Committee and all these reports are about. Then it doesn't matter that Mr Wiersma is now going to be a little bit out of the loop about how he doesn't know the party like that. We need to look at this legislation in depth, not with this kind of easy one-liners that Mr Wiersma comes with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	I'm just doing it on the content. I think it is relevant that if someone who is not covered by that exception and is covered by the full labour market test of the UWV, the employer has an obligation to prove that he cannot find anyone here in the Netherlands. I also think that this is relevant to those exceptions, but this point of mine focuses specifically on the 800 group in which the full labour market test takes place. That's a small group; I recognize that. That's a really small group. The question is whether this really raises so many complexities in the implementation process. The trade union movement is also critical of the proposal. The ACVZ is critical of this. He says that it should perhaps not be "available" but "present." There's a discussion about that. I think you should also do justice to the discussions of the people who provide input. There's no way I intend to make a political statement about anything or anything, really. It is just that we are having a discussion about migration and that we are looking at what is needed. It is fair, even towards employers, when we help them, but are also critical. In the Netherlands, we have an untapped potential of more than a million people. If we also want to help people to work in the Netherlands, I think that in that full labour market test for that small group we can also check whether that commitment has been met. I think you can ask that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	Then there is a question from Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	I was already confused and I'm even more confused by the answer. My question to the colleague of the VVD is actually the following. When I hear the argument like that, you find those numbers too large, specifically the exceptions. But there's no proposal. My question to Mr Wiersma is: if that is such a problem, then what is the proposal for these exceptions? If we have to limit that, I ask through the chairman. Do you have a proposal for this, as we have seen another amendment come along?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	I have questions about that, too. I'm about to get to the number of people who don't have a full labour market test at the UWV. I understand that the Minister hopes that this legislative proposal will reduce the need for exceptions. I would like to hear how that could be done, because there is nothing in the pleading about it and not in the answer either, but that is where our concern lies. So I do have the question of explaining that. I think that's a pretty normal question. If that comes back here, it's obviously a very important point in this law. That's right. But I am also curious to see the basis for this, because I am, of course, susceptible to it. If in this way you can make everything in the main rule more common again and allow the exceptions to expand less, then that would help a lot. However, we have seen that these exceptions are expanding, and I am honestly not convinced that specifically this adaptation will help against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	A follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	My follow-up question is next, and it is also my last question. I'm new in this business, so I'm very curious how Mr Wiersma will handle it in preparation. Why a proposal without you having heard the Minister's answers on what you have made an amendment about, and why do you not ask questions first, so that we can assess it afterwards? I'll ask through the chairman. I am asking this because I am also thinking about how I am going to handle this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	That's more like a procedural search for me. I think it is appropriate, if I am considering something, to share it with the Chamber in an amendment. But of course, I do ask questions. My amendment is therefore, by definition, open to discussion if the Minister's answers are satisfactory. Honestly, I hope so, of course. But I think it is nice to show an amendment to the Chamber. If you say 'don't do that in future; you can do that after the debate', you can do that. But I thought it was nice to do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	I see that Mr Van Baarle is making a start on DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	I first referred to the fact that Mr Wiersma indicated that he lacked support, but was already tabling an amendment. It seems to me that you wait for the answers and then come up with an amendment to amend a proposal. As far as I am concerned, the need for this amendment has been demonstrated. If there is really no obvious fact that there is no priority offer in the Netherlands, at the UWV we should not put together a whole paper mill to perform such a test. Employers' organisations also indicate that they are able to cope with this and that they are happy that some flexibility is introduced into the law, because the Netherlands is an international country and they cannot cope with the Netherlands' own labour potential. What is Mr Wiersma missing besides that in the justification? It seems to me to be a very logical proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	What we are doing at the same time is, of course, extending the time limit for the employment permit. For this group, which covers more than 800 people, that period shall not exceed two years. I'll get to that in a minute, because I still have a few questions to ask about exactly what's going on. That period is therefore extended to a maximum of two years. That's twice as much as it is now. The minister says that's the biggest change with this law. If you do that and if you make it two years instead of the current year, I think it is relevant that you know very well that you are doing this for two years and that the employer has really done his best to see if that position could be fulfilled by someone in the Netherlands. You say, "What if that's obvious?" If it's obvious, I'm convinced of it, too. But the question is whether we can ask that employer to show it. If he can't show that, is it an option for the UWV to say: we're doing it, right? Or is it still a compelling legal ground for rejection? I think this could also be a stick behind the door to make sure that we did our best to see if we could fill in that work in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	A follow-up question from Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr Wiersma states that he sees bread in it if it is indeed obvious. I think that is exactly what the proposal says: if the UWV finds that there is indeed no offer at the front, we do not need to rig up the entire paper mill. I am therefore genuinely concerned about the added value of the amendment and Mr Wiersma's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	That addition, that input to the UWV, is of course also provided by that employer. If that input is not provided by that employer, the UWV cannot take it well into consideration either. This bill will then ensure that we say: UWV, if you want to grant it, then do so. I say: I do consider this commitment to be relevant. I also think you should keep it. We've always had them in the past few years. Yeah, I'm not sure that's gonna work, but if there are very specific cases, I'd like to hear it. I really am susceptible to that, but I find it at least very logical that you should include that commitment in such a complete labour market test. If you're gonna do it, it's gonna have to be complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	Yeah, finally. In practice, of course, it does not work that we put all this on the employer's desk. I think the UWV is monitoring this, too. In my opinion, the UWV can also determine, without the employer's input, whether there is indeed a priority offer. So once again, I do not see the added value of Mr Wiersma's speech in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	That is an observation. It's okay. There's a debate for that. That's good. I think it is important that we do not think too lightly about an effort obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	Before you go any further, there is still a question from Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	You may think that coûte que coûte should be created a job vacancy text and that it should be recruited in newspapers and on the internet to find people. But Mr Wiersma is now acting as if what the bill is now proposing, which allows the UWV to say "in this profession we already know for sure that there are no Dutch or European people that we know for sure that this is not going to work, so don't do it" Mr Van Baarle said that "that's a paper mill" means "let go of the bunches." But it doesn't mean that. It means that we trust the professional when he says that this really is only administrative burden. I know the VVD as a party that always draws attention to it and that it doesn't pay off. So is the Minister's proposal not very sensible? It's a labour market test, but if the UWV says it already knows that posting a job on the internet is really not gonna do anything, then that little bit of red tape can be waived, because the UWV professional already knows that this doesn't work. Surely that should be in line with the input I hear from the VVD Group on about every legislative proposal? Then the term "administrative burden" does not come from the sky. But now that it's about foreigners, let's just put it on the record. It's no longer important, and it's given the impression that everyone who supports the minister here says: open the locks. That does not do justice to the proposal and I do not understand why Mr Wiersma wants entrepreneurs here to do a pointless piece of paperwork.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	The one-after-last, and the latter, by the way, is of course not the intention at all. I don't think I'm putting other parties out here either. If Mr Van Weyenberg likes to do so, fine. But I don't. That is truly not my intention. It's just in the content of this law. I see the ACVZ is making comments. There will be no response to that in the first instance, but later. That includes the fact that we have placed an important task on employers. That's a feature of how we handled this. The other way around you could say: the UWV should always check for that availability. We don't. We also let the UWV rely on an employer's efforts. Then the question is, can you let go of that effort or not? In the meantime, if you're going to extend that employment permit, I think it's two very big steps together that I'm worried about. In the bill, I don't see those concerns being taken away right away. I am absolutely open to this, because I also see administrative burdens. I never want to make it harder on entrepreneurs than it is. That's where we'll find each other. But then you shouldn't make a contradiction that isn't there. If we have a system in the Netherlands in which we want to trust employer that the employer has done his best, I think it is real that we are also having a serious discussion about the question: can we and the UWV trust that or do we also consider it important to ask for a form of proof, namely an effort obligation? I do think it is relevant to allow the UWV to consider whether or not it has been done sufficiently, not as an optional ground, but also as a mandatory ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	In my opinion, that is exactly what the proposal does: let the UWV make a trade-off. When the UWV says in front, "This is so pointless. This is just slipping paper. We've long been convinced that you can't find anyone for this vacancy. Then you don't have to run that round of job vacancies on the internet." I believe that we are acting precisely in the spirit of Mr Wiersma. But his amendment says: "Dear entrepreneur, we also know that there is no one. We've taken a good look at that. While that is the case, you will not get your gentleman and you will not be allowed to take the gentleman or the lady from abroad, because you will first have to do a paper round with a job vacancy that we as a professional know will never apply for." I think that's just a weird analysis. Mr Wiersma just said: I want to make customization possible by the UWV. Then I hope he will be open to the Minister's reply, because I think there can only be one conclusion: the amendment he has tabled does not fit in with Mr Wiersma's own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	I understand Mr Van Weyenberg wants to think so. We're gonna see those answers. This was introduced in 2014. What you want, what we now reverse, was the practice for 2014. Exactly this point was possible at the time. In 2014, we changed that. I'm sure we did that for a reason. That is what Mr Asscher did. I am curious to see what has changed in the intervening period, including with regard to implementation. If it is going to change every eight years, it is also a question of whether we should go along with it every eight years. I think it is logical in our role as a Chamber that we should ask ourselves this question and that we should continue to ask employers to do so. And indeed, the UWV can make that consideration, but the UWV also gets the opportunity to do this optionally; not to use this as a rejection ground and thus assign it. In combination with the extension of these employment permits, I find that an exciting bridge, hence my questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	Again, employers should only be given the space to get people when they are not there. We fully agree on that. The point is, while you already know that in the front, you're going into another paper mill. And on history: my group voted against that law in 2014. I would like to remind Mr Wiersma that, in my view, this was an inheritance of Rutte I. So that was about content. It was a policy choice of the first Rutte cabinet, tolerated by the colleagues of the PVV group. That's where the law came from, not from the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	Okay, Mr. Chairman, thank you. A second point of concern. Can the Minister provide an insight into the size of the group of third-country nationals who have an employment permit in other European countries but are posted here? How has this group developed in recent years? I am referring, for example, to someone who has obtained an employment permit from Ukraine in Poland and is doing work here. How big is this group and what does it look like? Is the Minister's analysis that the European approach to applying the Posting of Workers Directive to this group and to keep a close eye on it sufficient or does the Minister see opportunities to regulate that open crane even better? Finally, a question. It is precisely because we are bringing together two things that we consider to be very relevant to the Chamber to monitor what is happening in the figures, whether it actually leads to more awards and to fewer exceptions. So I would like to know from the Minister how he sees it in order to periodically inform the Chamber about it, so that we know if there will indeed be fewer exceptions and if, for example, this will lead to more influx. Then the Court can also take this into account in the follow-up process of the law and in an evaluation. I have now included no provision for this in an amendment, because I wonder if the Minister has a proposal for it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the letter on the arrangements for the Asian catering sector. We have always been very much in favour of providing help. At the same time, we have always been alert to signals. In recent years, these signals have accumulated into signals about trafficking in human beings. The VVD understands the decision to suspend that arrangement. The signals about human trafficking and fraud are serious. The VVD considers it important that this scheme should first be discussed with the sector and, if possible, that it could be reopened at a later date, but on the basis of new agreements, also directly focused on the serious signals that have emerged. What is the Minister's view of this process? How does he do that with those parties? I understand that there are concerns there, too. At the same time, however, we must insist that the vulnerabilities must first be removed. Mr. Chairman. This is my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you very much. Then we come to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks. The place is cleaned up for a while, so we can continue in a safe way. Mrs Maatoug, you have indicated that you need about 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Wiersma, I think it is extremely important, as a member of the GroenLinks Chamber, for us here in the Chamber to talk about labour migration. There are also very important recommendations, such as those made by Mr Roemer. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have declared many of these issues controversial. We're about to have a committee debate. I am also very much looking forward to the debates on this subject. I believe that there is an enormous task here to take action together as a Chamber, because we are seeing great abuses. Like Mr Wiersma, I say that is not what the debate is about today. For the people in the bleachers who think, "What are all these people talking about?', Let me explain. Today we are talking about the Amendment of the Foreign Labour Act in connection with the future-proofing of labour migration legislation. The Minister has made a number of changes to the law. We were just talking about it and I thought I'd just get them straight before the debate. We are also specifically talking about a few adjustments to how we deal with this employment permit. Because the numbers just got mixed up, I thought I'd just mention them. How many numbers are we talking about? In 2020, the employment declarations were 9.223, of which 381 were accepted with a full labour market test. That is the proposal that Mr Wiersma has just referred to. In 2019, for the sake of completeness, 13,264 were accepted, of which 818 with a full labour market test and 9,431, of which 763 with a full labour market test in 2018. So then we've got those numbers sharp. And then I'll come straight to my first question. A little big, but: what is the purpose of the cabinet with this bill, specifically for which sectors? Is the current legislation oppressive? And specifically, my question is about that labour market test. In fact, we saw that just now in Mr Heerma's little debate with Mr Wiersma. Because I'm missing a little support. What I read in the statement, or what we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance read, is that these exceptions have gotten out of hand so that the system no longer works and we want to adapt them. I would like to have some more justification for what that is exactly, what it works for, and why this bill will make the world a better place. That helps us in our appreciation and in determining how we vote. The second question concerns the maximum duration of the three-year employment permits. As GroenLinks, we read that a maximum duration of three years is made possible and that we are going to look at lower regulations when that is desirable. On behalf of GroenLinks, I would like to ask the Minister: could the Minister explain this better? When is two years desirable, when three years; how about that? And how does that relate to the economic situation? Because I've learned that in three years, the economy can change a lot. So when we say that three years is desirable and the economic situation changes, how does that relate to each other? And the explicit question: what is the objection to the system that we now have? 'Cause now you have to apply for it every year. What are the reasons why we would like to have three, two and one year? I'd appreciate it if we could have the support of that. Then third, enforcement. We are still dealing with illegal employment in the Netherlands. That may not be what this debate is about, but I would like to know whether this proposal will help to deal with it. If we have the system better, will that help us with that problem? And in general, as GroenLinks, we are extremely concerned about the poor conditions and also the undermining of working conditions through labour migration. That is a debate we must have with each other. And we are also particularly concerned about further delay. Its enforcement may be improved. My question to the Minister is: how do you see that, how are you going to do that, how does that relate to the things that we are already doing? Fourthly, the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to make a point about the fact that, in the first instance, the statement did not respond to the opinions, and that the Council of State pointed that out and then replied to them on a point-by-point basis in the statement. Well, we've just begun the debate on how we do that with each other, dealing with the legislation. My question to the Minister is: do you agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that it is actually a good thing that, when we deal with laws, we take those opinions that we get from organs, in the first move, and that the Council of State does not have to point that out to us anymore? Don't you agree with me? And what we as GroenLinks found striking was that the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs pointed out that the working time for asylum seekers is not in line with Article 15 of the Reception Directive. So I wonder how the Minister sees that point and whether he would like to explain it. Finally, we agree with the plea of the Planning Committee. 'Cause what do we see? Actually, I would have liked to start with that. We GroenLinks think it is very clear: in cases of crampedness, we are very happy that people, migrant workers, are coming, and that they are strengthening our economy and our society. But we also see huge abuses. In the debate we are going to see how we can improve the situation specifically in those areas of cramping. But we also saw in the debate that the approach we have taken so far was to make very large exceptions. Now we want to make that regulation better. But when is there any crunch, how does UWV make that decision? How do we assess this labour market impact? It seems very good to GroenLinks if we do that talk well-founded. So such a planning committee, looking at it to indicate "here we are talking about cramped, we are looking at it," we find a very interesting proposal. And we're very curious how the Minister looks at that. And last but not least, I look forward to all the debates we are going to have on this subject, because I think this is very important, and there is enough work to be done for us as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you very much. Let us now turn to Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talk very often in the Chamber about labour migration within the European Union. And that is right, because the D66 Group attaches extraordinary importance to the possibility of working wherever you want in Europe, and to the important contribution that many migrant workers make to the Netherlands. At the same time, it goes far too often wrong when it comes to housing and fair payment, for example. I am still pleased that about the entire Chamber supported the motion that we tabled first in order to put the opinion of the Roemer Committee fully into a new coalition agreement, precisely in order to deal with these abuses. But, as colleagues have said, that is not today's subject. Today's issue is about labour migration of people outside the European Union. There too, we actually have the same position. Labour migration can make a very big contribution, but precisely because I am so committed to it, the bar is high that it is fair, that it is done in a good way and that people are treated properly. Looking at this bill, I think the Minister is looking for a sensible balance. On the one hand, he is trying to adapt a number of measures which, above all, lead to a great deal of red tape, for example, that a licence should only be valid for one year. That's a tightening up. It came from the Rutte I cabinet and was defended here by then Minister Asscher of the cabinet after that. That term meant that you often had to start recruiting someone again while your new employee had just started. This creates a great deal of red tape and results very little, which is also perceived as very disturbing and causes people to become insecure after a year. So I like that extension. I do have a question about it. The law says a three-year permit can be granted. When I read through it, it seems to be the starting point, in principle, from two years, i.e. from one year to two years, and that when there are obvious large deficits there will be room to go to three years. But how this process takes shape is not clear to me after reading the documents. So I would like to ask the Minister to explain this because those three years should not be a dead letter either. So when does that happen? In this context, I also find it very interesting, which is also in line with, for example, the reaction to Mr Dijkhoff's motion for a resolution, that we should also look at where these deficits are wider. I also think that the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Aliens' Affairs on this point is extremely good for them to be advised. I will come back to that in second place with Mrs Maatoug. In the meantime, I see a few colleagues standing in front of the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	That's right, and I was the first to see Mr. Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	I am referring a bit to Mr Van Weyenberg's point that it should not be a dead letter. Following Mrs Maatoug's speech, I have questions about the explanatory statement and the justification for the legislative proposal in response to the explanatory statement. So I am also curious about the Minister's reply. But just at this point, it seems that this is again a question of tailor-made work, that there is some respect for the agreements made in the coalition agreement, but that it is precisely here that we are looking at what is sensible. When there are real shortages and you want to give space, you also want to avoid, for example, that if it is sectoral or cyclically unstable, you issue too many and too long employment permits, given the risk that it will lead to displacement and disruption. That is a sensible balance. And if it does not happen, then the conclusion is not that it is a dead letter, but then the conclusion is that given the situation is acting wisely and are not issued too long employment permits. In any case, that is how I read it, and I would like some further clarification from the Minister as to whether I read it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	But I think that's close to the question I just asked. The law says three years and I read in the explanatory statement that two is actually the standard. Then I am curious as to how this is done in legal terms and in any case it will be three years, how it is designed and what the considerations and criteria are for it. If you make a law that states three years when the underlying legislation shows that it can never be three years, then I do not think it is pure legislation either. So I want to understand what's in there. Making a distinction between two years in a number of cases and three years in some particular cases is a line I support, but I would like to know on the basis of which criteria you can take that step to three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	I think that's a good question. I also have them, namely whether for that whole group that is not in the full labour market test, that there will be about 12,000 automatic than those three years in 2019. The 800 will be valid for a maximum of two years, according to the proposal. But does it apply to the rest, the about 12,000 remaining, automatically those three years or do we have any gradations within the implementing decision scheme? So I share that question. Suppose it's for that whole group and for that group it automatically goes to three years by default. We have also tabled an amendment which I forgot to mention, so I would like to take this opportunity to say that the employer should also look at language. 'Cause three years is a big deal. If someone's been here for three years, I hope he can find his way here. Then you can also expect an employer to take part in how someone can learn the language. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this. But if it is indeed automatic for that large group these three years, does Mr Van Weyenberg think it is logical to look at language, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	My thesis is next. When people work here, I can well imagine that they say: I like to be able to do a little Dutch too, perhaps not because I need it on the work floor, but because I just like it socially. Moreover, I have read the amendment in such a way that you want to make it applicable to everyone, not only to people coming for three years, but also to people coming for two years. I do wonder whether I think an amendment is the right form for this. I wonder whether it is necessary to do so by means of an amendment. But I can imagine that the basis is that you say: if you come here, it is nice to be able to do your shopping in Dutch at the bakery. But I would like to take a closer look at whether this amendment is the right form for this, also because I interpret it more broadly than how you explain it now. But I'd like to hear more about that in a moment. Your question was whether three years is actually the standard for almost everyone. I have not yet read the proposal in all honesty. That shows that it's important that we just get more focus on what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	I didn't read it that way at first, but when I started reading well, I couldn't think of anything else. So there might be something else, but then we'd like to hear it from the Minister. But when it comes to language, I taste very carefully that it would be a good thing to pay attention to this in the case of knowledge migrants, and so the employer is also looking for an opportunity to offer it. We have included in that amendment: if it is longer than a year. This extension therefore looks at: from one to more, i.e. to either two or three years. That is also a little dependent on the Minister's reply. How big is the group? How generic could you do it? I await that, but I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg at least understands the direction. He's also wondering if this should be in this law. I get that. I would be very curious to know where else to go, so I would like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	I'm still looking a little bit: are people who want to do this in practice stopped doing that now? So I'm just looking to see if you can secure this in the law or if this is going pretty well in practice. I read the amendment in such a way that it must be an offer from the employer, but no one is obliged to use it. That's how I read the amendment. I see Mr Wiersma nodding, by the way. That's relevant to legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	Sure. As chairman, I confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The second is that in some cases the UWV can say: you do not need to recruit separately, because we understand that there is simply no one available and you need someone from outside the European Union for this job. From the administrative burden and from the avoidance of red tape, I think that is a sensible route, also because it does not add anything in practice. That is why I think it is important that this is a possibility clause. That means that the UWV can decide not to recruit. Normally they do, but if they think it's a pure paper mill, they don't. I think that is sensible, for entrepreneurs but also for implementation, because we should not be in favour of doing things that do nothing. By the way, there are also two tightenings in the bill. You always have to pay grailly, not only the minimum wage, which is already the law, but the whole wage. Read: You can't do it in cash, but you have to do it neatly through a bank statement. It would be much better to check whether people are getting the fair pay they need to get. I think that's wise. The second action is: listen, if there is no work, then no permit. That's some kind of safety valve in the system. I like that, too. Then I have two more questions about the Reception Directive. Mrs Maatoug asked about it as well. It has been asked whether the current Dutch working method is in line with the directive on how to deal with people who are in the Netherlands through asylum procedures. I do not find the answer convincing there yet. My question to the Minister is: would it not be good to do a separate legal analysis of this? I don't know the answer right now, but I find the answer we're getting unclear. This is essential. You have to follow guidelines at all, but I also think it is politically desirable to offer people maximum opportunities to participate. But I still find the answer a little searching. Then I would say: this is so important, shouldn't this just be sorted out strictly, legally? Look at the county attorney or otherwise. Ask a few experts. I'd like to make the request to the Minister if he wants to do so. Mr. Chairman. As Mr Wiersma said, we have indeed had a letter about abuses in the Asian catering industry. These are serious risks. I support the Minister's statement that I am putting things in the fridge, the appointments I have, until I am sure that people in the Netherlands are treated nicely and it is not the case in recruitment that someone comes to the Netherlands via a forged cookbook. Then such a person is not a cook at all, but he still enters the Netherlands via this route. The word 'trafficking in human beings' is even mentioned in the Minister's letter. It can't be. I appeal to the Asian catering industry to remove the rotten apples, because unfortunately I have to note that those rotten apples, those companies that are involved, are there. Otherwise, of course, an employer says: "Wait a minute, there's someone coming in who can't cook at all; go back, for I had ordered a cook." If you don't, you're willing to participate in such a construction. Then you're not looking for a cook, but you've just tried to get someone to come to the Netherlands on a detour, and that's not what the rules are for. So I call on the Asian catering industry to remove those really rotten apples and to be very strict on them. And I call on the Minister to discuss the working conditions in the Netherlands, which were already in the agreements, so that they are better respected and we have more guarantees in the process that the people who come to the Netherlands are actually the migrant workers we are looking for. By the way, I have one more question for the Minister: isn't it true that you can get through without the appointments, if you just get a chef's diploma because that's a book that's fake? Then the UWV tests and you look like a cook. In fact, this problem is independent of whether or not there are separate agreements with the sector. This could also be a problem. I'd like a response. I read in the letter all kinds of examples of signals from Dutch civil servants in China. Are there any signals from countries other than China? If that is not the case, has any consideration been given to doing something for the Chinese catering industry alone and simply continuing the arrangements for Thai and Indonesian people? I can't tell from the letter whether the signals are wider than those about the Chinese catering industry. Mr. Chairman. That was my input. I would just like to say that for me this is the first debate in which people can sit in the public gallery again. I like that very much. I think that is a valuable addition to our democracy. I'm glad they're all here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	Well, that's what this chairman totally shares. Last Wednesday was the first time. We are indeed very happy that everyone here is welcome again. In the meantime, of course, many people follow us through livestreams and other possibilities, so I welcome everyone. We are pleased that you are following democracy closely and are also watching for yourself what is happening here. We are going to the next speaker, Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to add that I am pleased that you are here. That's really much more valuable than an empty room. We do know that there are many people watching digitally, but that people can also be present live, means that there is a bit of light at the end of that dark corona tunnel. So welcome. Mr. Chairman. I must confess that I have struggled well in the preparation of this bill, because, as colleagues have said, it affects the great issue of labour migration and the many abuses that we experience almost daily. I immediately remembered the fire in the Schilderswijk, where all kinds of mattresses were found in gazebos; fortunately no migrant workers died. Or think of the situation in Linne, where there is another serious disturbance. This touches on the bigger debate on how we deal with labour migration. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, I think that is the case for almost all parties, and we must stop the exploitation of people working in the Netherlands. The Roemer Committee has indeed produced a very good report for this purpose, with a number of solutions. As far as we are concerned, we need to get to work on this as soon as possible. That led me to look very critically at this law in the preparation. What's the connection between this bigger debate on labour migration and this law? Frankly, there is no such direct link; several colleagues have already said so. But with the aim of stopping the exploitation of migrant workers, by any means whatsoever, I would like to ask the Minister, also because of the signals from the FNV and the firm letter from the FNV, to respond more generally to the fear that there is in relation to this legislation. Because it is important to ensure that we do not open up new avenues that will bring people to work here in appalling conditions. This law often does not concern the group of knowledge migrants. Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about the Asian chefs. That is, of course, an exception to this regulation, but there may be that possibility. Can the Minister respond to that? Is there any risk of that? Mr. Chairman. Then the law. When it comes to the exemption for recruitment efforts and the intention to give the UWV more its own role, the question of the Labour Party is: what problem do we solve? We have already spoken several times about the numbers. It concerns more than 10,000 permits per year, some 1,000 of which are rejected, say about 10%. Is that 10% the problem or is the real problem indeed in that paper mill of the UWV? Because also here we look again with the glasses of "if we give the UWV more space for that, doesn't that lead to the possibility that we let people in who are being exploited here?" Does the UWV have enough eye for that? So I'd like to hear more support on that point. The second point concerns the extension. I would like to add my voice to Mrs Maatoug's question: what exactly is the basis for going from one year to two or three years? What are the criteria on which you can decide? I can well imagine that in practice it will indeed be complicated if you have to apply for that licence every year. You can say to the other: it is perhaps also a good time to check every year whether there is no shortage and whether there is no displacement. So I'd like more support for that, too. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two other points that affect this legislation and the debate on labour migration and all the abuses. I mention the problem of Moldovans, for example, who enter through Poland with a licence and are then put to work everywhere in Europe, and often under appalling circumstances. I'll just mention the international transport. There, of course, we see very bad conditions in which people have to work. And people are being exploited. I know that this is incredibly sensitive and difficult in Europe, but could the Minister comment on this? It doesn't affect this bill directly, but there might be a link. Can the Minister answer that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the problem of Asian chefs and abuses. When we broaden the main route, we are going to avoid these kinds of constructions and these kinds of exceptions more and can we avoid these kinds of abuses? In this respect, too, we are really judging this bill with critical glasses. Isn't this what's causing abuses to increase and is this really about that group of knowledge migrants that we just need here because of tightness and shortages? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	Before you leave the Chamber, there is a question from Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	I recognize that broader dilemma that Mr Van Dijk has outlined here. But of course it may also be very good that in the midst of all the very big problems of repression and exploitation, this bill is so small that it actually has a minimal effect and therefore has very little connection with the main problem. Is that a reason for Mr Van Dijk to say that I do not approve of the legislative proposal, because it does not do enough to solve the main problem? Or does he say that it will lead to a reduction in administrative burdens, but we are going to answer the very big question in the light of the opinions of the Roemer Committee, for example? I also read in the FNV's letter the criticism that this bill does not solve these very big problems. And I get that. But that's not what the bill is about, at least as I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	It is clearly a signal from the FNV about what happens daily in practice. And it is also a question of timing: that we really want to start this bigger debate today and start the solutions, while we are sitting here in the Chamber debating a very small part and a group that is often not about. It's about 10,000 to 12,000 people a year. And that is a bit of a struggle because of the timing and also the expectation of many people, who see that there is a debate on labour migration and that we are not actually talking about it. I think that is the clear signal from the FNV: that we have to talk about this. We have a debate on this before the summer. With that signal from the FNV, I ask the cabinet to take another critical look at whether we are not opening a door, which means that we are once again allowing abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you. Then we come to Mr De Graaf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly endorse the last concern expressed by Mr Van Dijk. I'm not gonna keep you busy for 20 minutes, but in order to be able to deal with a bill as ADHD'er light, you're gonna have to plan a little more broadly to give yourself a chance to talk a little more quietly. I hope that will work, Mr. Chairman. The Minister considers that the current Foreign Labour Act should be amended to make it flexible and future-proof. "Future proof," that's what I noticed. This means that in future the Minister wants more flexibility than is envisaged in this law, is my first question. The most important adjustment is "to make the grounds for refusal optional for insufficient recruitment efforts, allowing the UWV to choose to grant an employment authorisation for narrow sectors, even if the employer has not made sufficient recruitment efforts." In that I find the word "optional" most striking. Back in the day, when the PvdA was still pulling the strings at SZW, it was just called an exception in the law. There were always social security laws with exceptions. We know where that usually led in the execution by municipalities. Exceptions to SZW are in nine out of ten times the rule. At the end of the day there will be an official who will have to maintain, but then he will see a lot of exceptions, and will consult with his city council. Then the exception becomes the rule. I've been through it enough times. In my view, therefore, the word "optional" may be used to de facto eliminate the Foreign Labour Act in part immediately. The only way to get this is to read through the civil servants' and lawyers' racket. Of course, it takes some time to do that right. Is the Minister able to remove this concern of the Party for Freedom? If so, how? That's a question we can ask each other a little longer. Then there's the next fact. The maximum duration of the employment permit shall be extended to three years. The employment permit already does not apply in the European Economic Area and in the European Union, but it will therefore be even easier to work here from outside the EU. That's the effect. In short, this bill only affects a small part of labour migration. This has already been mentioned in previous contributions. Migrant workers from within the EU and the EEA do not need to apply for an employment permit or a single residence and employment permit. So these are so-called third-country nationals. Some of these third-country nationals are posted to the Netherlands by other EU countries. Due to EU rules, the Netherlands is not allowed to recheck these migrant workers. I think Mr Wiersma brought up that check. For example, someone who buys a passport through a corrupt EU country, such as Malta, Romania or Bulgaria, can just invade the Netherlands. Does the Minister also see this problem and if so, what will he do about it? The minister makes it seem like the IND's control is very strict. I understand that, but in February Trouw published an article showing that a flexible migrant scheme intended for highly educated migrants makes the Netherlands vulnerable to espionage and unwanted political influence. I'll come back to this. Perhaps it has been debated once before when I did not replace Mr De Jong on this point, so I do not remember. A security check does not appear to be a standard part of the migration scheme at all. The IND only checks whether the companies in the Netherlands have been convicted or fined. The service does not look at foreign convictions or sanctions and does not question the AIVD. Thus a professor of migration law, quoted in that article. This way, for example, hate images can easily enter our country, to spread their Islamic venom here. Especially since the rules are even more flexible for this group, for example when it comes to the integration of imams from Turkey. With this law, and of course with the weak EU rules, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, stabbing the Netherlands, now also the Netherlands where the jobs lie, but especially for people from outside the EU. Hateimams: Come in and take your four women with you. War criminals are also welcome. They are even brought back: join us. ISIS butchers and terrorists: all of you bring your family, because the mesh around the mesh in the law seems to be cut away. Or isn't it, I'm asking the Minister. And is that the Netherlands the minister wants? At least we as PVV aren't. We do not want a more flexible approach, but a more stringent approach to labour migration in order to prevent the displacement of our own workers. We still have 355,000 unemployed and 52,000 were added in the first quarter alone. The trend is a bit variable, but still, we still have those unemployed. We must combat the nuisances and costs for Dutch society caused by migrant workers. We also want to protect our national security. We want us to be completely in control of our own borders and to be able to pursue our own, selective and restrictive policies with regard to temporary foreign workers. There are a number of measures in the law that protect workers. That is, of course, a good thing: workers must be protected. That is why I think it is a pity that the parts I mentioned and the measures to protect workers are covered by a single law. How shall I put it? Oh, shoved, set, made, that it's joined together. This will make it difficult to make a choice. Perhaps it will be that we are going to say that we are going to vote for a part and against a part. I would like to look at this law in the light of the question of how full the Netherlands is already. For example, I am looking at The Hague, where officially some 5,800 people live per square kilometre, but actually 6,000 or more. With this this has become a place with also targets for status holders, a place where the city council wants the height. We'll have to be careful that Scheveningers aren't pushed into the sea by the status holders and the expats. In my view, these adjustments are partly intended to prepare for the so-called TristateCity, which VNO-NCW and other organisations have devised to make the Netherlands one big city. At least, the southern part. The northern part then gets all windmills and data centers and the southern side only gets habitation. If it's up to the minister, I'll take a look at this law again.The whole world will soon have a work permit in the Netherlands at the end of the contract with a single social service and perhaps a vote on the PvdA. We are not in favour of the motto of the Netherlands for foreigners. We're a lot more nuanced in it. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thank you very much. That's right. It's a lot shorter. Then we'll get to the next speaker. That's Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr President. DENK believes in the power of diversity and the importance of an open economy for the Netherlands. DENK believes in the Netherlands as a migration country that it is traditional. International exchange and free movement, provided we set the right conditions, provide benefits for us and for the people who come to the Netherlands to work on their future. Advantages stemming from diversity, benefits for people who can contribute here and earn some extras and benefits because we are able to solve labour shortages and find additions to our economy. That is necessary, because the CBS has estimated that in the coming period about 50,000 employees from abroad will be needed to fill the gaps we have in the Dutch labour market. Because of the ageing population and shortages in sectors in the labour market, international migration is not something that makes us the Netherlands, but also a need to be able to move on as a country. All those people who come to the Netherlands to contribute, including the first generation in the 1960s and 1970s, then called the host workers, deserve our appreciation and respect for coming here to make their contribution. Mr. Chairman. DENK is pleased that the current legislative proposal provides more flexibility for the government to use assistance from abroad for possible labour market shortages. As has just been said, we are satisfied that unnecessary paper mills no longer need to be applied by the UWV and we can simply work on our economy. DENK has three questions about this. Can the Minister explain exactly what the optional customization is going to mean in practice? We read that this is going to be precisely designed in lower regulation, but can the Minister say a little more about how the word "optional" is going to be applied in practice? Can the Minister also comment on why the situation prior to the 2014 legislative amendment is not being taken into account? Do I understand that if we do that, it will lead to more flexibility on the one hand, but on the other hand to an additional paperwork that we want to avoid? I'd like a little more explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Like previous speakers, DENK draws attention to the fact that the ACVZ indicates that the availability of refugees for the labour market may be in breach of Union law. As far as DENK is concerned, we ensure that refugees can participate in the labour market as soon as possible, so that they can become part of our society and work for their future. Can the Minister explain why the finding of the ACVZ, namely that the government infringes Union law, would not be true? Why wouldn't that statement be right? Article 15 of that Directive states that refugees must have access to the labour market after a certain period of time. If we limit that, isn't it true that that access isn't there? By definition, this would be a failure to comply with the Directive. Can the Minister also comment on the other observation made by the ACVZ, namely that the current regulation is bad for refugees' chances, because it makes them unattractive to employers? The government has not answered that question and I am now asking for a response from the Minister. I fully agree with the point made by previous speakers, namely: carry out another legal analysis. We have read in the answer that there is one verdict that is not even public. I believe that we should check more closely whether we comply with Union law on this issue. Would the Minister at least be prepared to consider whether we can extend the provision if he does not wish to delete it completely? That would also be a nice step towards more opportunities for refugees. That is what DENK attaches great importance to. Mr. Chairman. Employment of people who want to build a future in the Netherlands and make a contribution here can only be achieved if we ensure that conditions are decent and good. We read shocking stories about this and we read the shocking conclusions in the Roemer Committee's report. Underpayment, poor housing in which people are hoarded, excessive working hours of up to twenty hours a day and that people sleep in the factory for four hours; it is unacceptable that we see this kind of situation in the Netherlands. We as Dutch people are obliged to do more for these people. We are therefore pleased that the legislative proposal contains two provisions designed to protect the position of these people, namely the monthly payment of wages and the condition of economic activity. But in all honesty, the question to the Minister is: is this enough? I don't think so. I don't think that's enough. With regard to the determination of monthly pay, DENK would like to ask the Minister why the proposal has been made here to introduce an optional ground for refusal if an employer has failed to pay the wage in the past. Why is there an optional ground for refusal? And how exactly does such an optional ground of refusal take shape in practice? Does that mean, in practice, that we accept it in some circumstances if an employer does not pay the wages? How exactly does that take shape? That should not be the case as far as the DENK Group is concerned. Mr. Chairman. One of the most urgent problems with labour migration is poor housing. The Foreign Labour Act states in Article 9 that an employment permit is refused if appropriate accommodation is not available. I would like to ask the Minister how this works in practice. What is seen in practice as "appropriate housing"? And what is seen as "unsuitable housing"? Is there really a definition in lower regulation of what "appropriate housing" is? And if we haven't documented what "appropriate housing" is, isn't it wise to do so, to prevent people coming here from being huddled up in houses? Mr. Chairman. Article 8 of the Foreign Labour Act states that the employment permit is refused if the conditions, employment relations or working conditions of the job to be filled are below the level required by law or are usual. My question to the Minister is: how exactly is this tested in practice? Is this always done by definition? Is this done on the basis of risk profiling? Or is there not a clear directive for when we do check this and when we don't? If we do not have clear guidelines on this, it seems to me that we need to lay down this in order to prevent exploitation. Finally, Mr President. We read in the government's response that the government believes that this bill would be difficult to evaluate and that it is difficult to describe the precise effects on practice. I would like to ask the Minister how the Minister monitors that the effects of this law, if the Chamber decides to adopt this law, will be monitored precisely and that an evaluation will be carried out, which we can look forward to here in the Chamber after a number of years. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	I'll see you, too. Then we come to Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'm a little bigger than Mr Van Baarle, so I'm just gonna put up the chair first. Compliments for his input. It has been said by previous speakers that it is nice that there can be a public presence in debates again. I'd like to join that. Where this type of legislative proposal has often been dealt with by three or four groups in the past, I can see that with the advent of many small groups there are several of them in this debate. I think that is an enrichment for the control of legislation. It is therefore very good that new groups, which are small, are also present to contribute to this type of legislative proposal. I like to see that, too. We are dealing here with a revision of the Foreign Labour Act. If you take it, you will see that it is a limited change for a limited group, which has become more limited with the enlargement of the European Union. Mr Wiersma and I differed on the numbers, but they are between 10,000 and 13,000 a year, of which more than half comes from China, India and America. It has already been mentioned that the main route has become a kind of side route. The answer in the written rounds shows that there are about 800 people. Most go through agreements, exceptions and alternatives. This bill envisages a limited number of adjustments to make the main route more the main route. This is sensitive because it is about labour migration, protecting our labour market, preventing exploitation and preventing repression. In this way, it can make a contribution to the main route more the main route again. That was actually the question asked by Mr Van Dijk. Can this legislative proposal, however limited it may be, help to counter constructs and make exceptions less the rule and more the main rule? In addition, this bill, as was mentioned in the debate on the interruption with Mr Wiersma, seems to give the performers a little more room for manoeuvre. The word "optional" is not used to do so at all, but to say: in certain, very obvious situations we, as professionals on the front, already know the outcome and we avoid unnecessary work and administrative burdens. That is exactly in line with the advice of the Bosman committee, which presented us as a chamber with a mirror: make sure you give the professionals more space instead of getting things done in a pinch. Hence my doubts about the amendment tabled by Mr Wiersma. At the same time, I think that both Mr Wiersma and Mrs Maatoug sometimes spoke about the explanatory memorandum and the explanation of the legislative proposal too unclear. The question remains what the goal is and how it will settle in practice. That is why I have a number of questions. My first question touches on the question of evaluation that Mr Van Baarle has just asked. There is a limited adjustment, and yet you can see that there are sometimes unforeseen negative effects when legislation is amended. What is the cabinet going to do to keep the finger on the wrist by evaluating? And I understand that it's complicated, because it's both sectorally different and cyclically different. But we still have to keep the finger on the wrist. This law gives a little more space, a little more possibilities for customization. This should not lead to undesirable effects in terms of repression, exploitation. Can the Minister explain how this flexibility with high and low economic conditions will take shape in practice? How's the UWV handling that? I often encounter the word 'conjuncture' in the documents, but'sectoral' hardly. To what extent is it considered sectoral? Indeed, even in a boom, there may still be specific sectors where changes in the labour market, which are also driven very quickly by digitalisation, ensure that there is no shortage in such a sector. If you look only at the economic situation, then it could lead to displacement and possible disruption of the labour market in these sectors. So how is that taken? Then I come to the question of one, two and three years. This is the part where I think the most unclear is how the legislative proposal is going to work. In fact, the debate between Mr Wiersma and Mr Van Weyenberg already had that difference. Because Mr Van Weyenberg says: isn't it really a problem that two years seems to be the norm? And Mr Wiersma says: well, I think three years is the norm, and those two years apply only to a very limited group. Can the Minister explain exactly what this is about? I think being careful isn't crazy. So we have to look at where two years work, and we don't have to go by default to three years. But I am also curious to see what the Minister's explanation is about the difference of opinion between Mr Wiersma and Mr Van Weyenberg. Because based on the pieces, I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	There is a question from Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	I just have a clarifying question, Mr President. Mr Heerma says: I would rather be a little more cautious at such a step from one year to three years. That step to two years fits there; that's a little more careful. That seems to be possible for a small group. What if that is the case, that it is only the group with the full labour market test and not the whole other group, and that is how I read it, I am thinking of asking Mr Heerma to actually take those two years as standard for the whole group for the time being? Am I hearing that right? Does he want to see how that works out? Is that what Mr Heerma is saying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	No. I'd like to hear from the Minister first. I was talking about a Chinese chef, but it is Asian catering; it is right that Mr Van Weyenberg calls it that. That's one of those exceptions. All kinds of exceptions have been created, partly because the main route is too tight. It is precisely by giving a little more space in that main route that there is a good chance that those exceptions will no longer be the rule. That's how I read it. I am therefore still not sure whether those three years do not partly apply to those exceptions because they are regulated and because the main route is too tight. I'll lean to the next thing. If you are going to broaden that main route, which is how I read it, then it appears that the Minister in his proposal may be a little more cautious than the text of the coalition agreement. However, that text from the coalition agreement can also be read in two ways. The Minister offers the space for three years, but in many cases it is two years in practice. That's how I read it. Mr Van Weyenberg reads it in one way, Mr Wiersma reads it in another way. I'll wait for the answer. However, I would like to have an answer to this. And I am not yet convinced of what Mr Wiersma is saying, namely that that is also the situation. That's why he can't interpret my question the way he interpreted it. I was with Mr Wiersma. I shall go right ahead with that, because I think that his questions and concerns about corporate espionage are justified, although the questions are actually only half part part of this bill, and also fall within the field of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, and that of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The awareness in business that this is a risk is growing. Mr Wiersma already referred to the research that has been done, and last week I also read in a newspaper a news report on ASML and what happened to corporate espionage. An employee now works at a Chinese chip company. So consciousness is growing. I believe, however, that the responsibility for this lies first and foremost with these companies. They must convert that consciousness into protecting their safety. But Mr Wiersma's question is what can improve the procedures to help them to be better protected and to look critically at certain referees. I am very curious to hear the Minister's reply. Mr Wiersma has already asked questions about this in the written round. There has been an initial response that could improve European legislation by 2022. But I'm curious to see to what extent that really provides protection. That is why I look forward to the Minister's reply to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	I have read that too, but that is true for cases within Europe. Russia was not included, but well, we'll hear about that. On that example of ASML: I agree with Mr Heerma that it is an employer's responsibility. The problem is: if you say it's that responsibility, then you want to be able to trust that employer, too. Then we call such an employer a recognized referee, a trustworthy organization. That's where the point is: then you want to make sure it's a reliable organization. There is the question: do you have to test a reliable organisation only in the Netherlands if there is a conviction somewhere or do you need to look wider? My group actually sees that the test we are doing now is a little too compact and the procedure is so fast, within two weeks, and that only a check is asked by the employee that the company is looking at, after which the IND grants it. The search is: how can you tighten that up, so you also look wider and do crosschecks. If I understand correctly, Mr Heerma says: I think that is sensible. Maybe it's a question of whether this is all part of this. But do I understand him correctly that he says: I think we should add a tooth to this when it comes to the security checks? Because of course the AIVD has been calling that for a long time, and we can look for and move in any debate, but if we can find something workable, we should try it now, too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	I am glad to have given Mr Wiersma the opportunity to make his speech again. But my question was precisely that I think he is right to raise a point and that I am therefore looking forward to the Minister's reply. We should not fool each other either: espionage is very crafty. It's not like this is some kind of miracle cure where, because there's been a criminal conviction, there's suddenly no espionage. That is why it begins with the companies, in the consciousness and in ensuring that they protect their intellectual property and, by the way, also the earning ability of the Netherlands against evil people who want to take it on in a bad way. But yes, I think more can happen. That is why my question to the Minister, following Mr Wiersma's speech. I am very curious to hear the Minister's reply. Mr. Chairman. Contrary to Mr De Graaf, I was so excited that I was once again allowed to submit myself to a bill that I am going over my time, but it is not about the fourteen minutes that Mr De Graaf has just won. I have two short topics and then I finish, because I saw you look hard, Mr. Chairman. When you read the letter from the trade unions, they are very explicitly concerned about posting. I saw that GroenLinks asked written questions about this and we did so. FNV and CNV claim that this is increasing in numbers. More and more people who have received an employment permit in another EU country are going to work here. Having seen that reading, and having seen the answers to the questions asked in the first round, I feel that we are now talking about a very limited legislative proposal, while this potential is not something I want to call hell and damnation, because I am not sure that is a much bigger problem. If more and more people who have been posted from other EU countries are going to work here and we cannot do anything about it, when these postings may not have been properly issued, then that could be a much bigger problem than the problems we are discussing here in the legislative proposal. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that feeling is justified and what can be done about it, if necessary at European level. The last part contains the third amendment to this bill. It's about better protecting employees. What is important here is that this wage is paid out on a voluntary basis. This is actually a follow-up to the adjustment made in Rutte II by Minister Asscher within the Law approach to bogus constructions. For that reason, however, the threshold of minimum wage was applied to this transfer. In the treatment of the Fake Constructions Act, the minimum wage was a major discussion point. This bill builds on it and expands it. My question is: what are the lessons to be passed on around that grail? I think that works well to protect workers and also enhances their enforcement. The proposal now is to extend it to the whole wage. I think there is a certain logic in that, but I'm still curious about the lessons learned from the Law approach fakes. Does this amendment now apply to the entire group of the Law approach to bogus constructions, or only to the part about which the rest of this bill is concerned, the third-country nationals? I look forward to the Minister's explanation on that point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	Thank you very much. Then we come to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. No, there's another question from Mrs Maatoug. Mrs Pouw-Verweij saw that very clearly. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'm learning right away that I need to get out of the starting blocks a little faster, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns a point that Mr Heerma mentioned earlier in his contribution, namely the point of sectoral and cyclical. That's a very good point. I am also very curious about the Minister's answers. But I'd still like to ask how these two are connected. I can very well imagine that, in a situation of low economic conditions, hopefully, we do not often have those people who, for example, have a lot of people out of work, asking for a different effort from employers than in a situation of shortage. In the first situation you can think of guiding people from work to work or educating them, so that they can get to work in that gift, new sectors in which there is an enormous demand. So are you also curious about the interaction between sector and business? I am curious to see how you view it and, above all, how the Minister views it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u83	This is indeed partly a specification of the question I have asked the Minister, for which Mrs Maatoug is grateful. But I'm going to change the accent, because my concern is that there isn't just interaction. It goes without saying that the situation on the labour market is different in all sectors in high economic conditions than in low economic conditions. And yet there may even be certain sectors in a boom... We have seen in recent years several examples of companies that became very large but whose market then collapsed completely and of occupational groups in which there were suddenly many more people working than they were asking for. We can even see this in a booming economy, where more flexibility is given to deal more flexibly with this priority test. So I am not just curious about that interaction; I also want to see a critical review. I would like it to be said that there may be a boom in the economy, but in these particular sectors the problems are so great that we are still on top of them to prevent displacement and to ensure that the labour market is not disturbed. In everything I have read about this law, I found the focus on the economic situation to be so much that I am concerned about it. I want to get an explanation about that. Even if the economy is running like a tiering machine, there are sectors that may be in trouble. I want that to continue to be looked at critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u84	Short. I know a lot of students in VMBO today get the results of their exams. I also hear Mr Heerma's plea as: there are sectors calling for great powers. That is what we are going to talk about in the committee debates on the labour market, but I share the analysis and I am curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you. Then we really get to JA21. I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u86	Thank you. The chair is lowered a bit. I am a little smaller than Mr Heerma, so it is nice that this is taken into account. I would like to thank Mr Heerma for his fine words. It has not happened to me before that a positive speech was made about my contribution even before I introduced it at all. I feel the pressure's high. Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about a bill that eases the rules on labour migration. To fall into the house with the door: we are not for that. The cabinet writes in the explanatory memorandum and in the note on the report on the future-proofing and flexibility of legislation in order to take account of the economic situation. This is, however, with the current situation as the lower limit to which this legislative proposal makes it possible to relax. This is the case, for example, when it comes to the de facto abolition of the grounds for rejection when applying for an employment permit where the employer has not made sufficient efforts to find suitable candidates, the so-called priority offer. The cabinet indicates that this only gives the UWV the opportunity to deliver customised work, but you will not get back what you abolish. At least not just like that. With this amendment, it will be easier to grant an employment permit for a migrant worker without a proper search for offers in the Netherlands. That is not the path my group wants to take. Can the Minister respond to this? Does he not see the risk that the abolition of this compelling legal ground for rejection will lead to this? If not, why not? If so, why this proposal? The granting of an employment permit for a maximum of three years and two instead of one year in the BUWav is also an undesirable relaxation. Anyone who receives an employment permit for a job vacancy which is subject to a labour market test may now be under the carpet for three years. We find it strange that the cabinet calls this proposal a 'flexibilisation'. After all, the current one-year deadline is in order to be able to assess annually whether there is a priority offer, in order to be able to adjust it. By extending the maximum duration of an employment permit to three or more For two years, therefore, the scheme will become less flexible. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, in the report of the previous written consultations, the SGP colleagues did not have the SGP today; so I would like to stress on their behalf what the impact of this bill will be on the number of migrant workers who will settle in the Netherlands. The cabinet indicates that although it is becoming more flexible, it is not expected that this change will lead to a substantial increase in the number of migrant workers. Mr. Chairman. My group is getting a little nervous about a bill requiring such a shaky disclaimer. Trade union FNV is also calling on the Chamber to vote against this bill. In a letter of fire, which we received yesterday, the FNV states that "the current labour market and enforcement bodies are not equipped to allow a new group of migrant workers from third countries to enter the Dutch labour market under decent conditions." That's a truth like a cow. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The JA21 group will not agree to this bill. Labour migration should be limited rather than extended. Labour migration can be very attractive to employers, but there are serious downsides for society itself. I am thinking in particular of labour migration for which there is currently no need for an employment permit, namely EU labour migration. So to end with a positive note: if a next draft legislation on labour migration provides for the re-entry of employment permits for migrant workers from within the EU, then we can count on our warm support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you, too. Then we'll go to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking you for the compliment Mr. Heerma gave me on my presence in this room as a small fraction. I'm proud that after last night I'm just standing here glowing as ever. But that is because this is an important subject for me and for the people who have given me the mandate to stand here. I must confess that here in this room I also experience a lot of fear: fear of intrusion, fear of displacement, fear of loss by the stranger. In all letters, in the content, in the purpose and in the context of this law, literally called "Law labour strangers," I taste that fear. We have a word for that fear. It's an annoying word, a word that hurts, but it exists. Fear of the stranger, the third-country national, the foreigner; we call it xenophobia. Whether it be the labour market, housing or the right of residence, that is the basis for the deliberate choice to create a restrictive admission policy for migrants in general, but also for migrant workers in particular. Some people are very keen to keep it that way. It is this fear, that xenophobia, which explains why this cabinet refuses to listen to interest groups, to migrant workers or to the recommendations of the Employment Protection Team, which the Cabinet itself asked for advice. For what other reason can a cabinet have to continue to deliberately deny that the serious abuses committed by migrant workers in this country are not occasional, but that these are structural problems, as has also been noted by the FNV? We see a structural and systematic breach of legislation in the employment of migrant workers from EU Member States. Trade unions are denied access to the workplace, so that they do not have contact with migrant workers and cannot know what their rights are as workers. People are kept in an uncertain working and income-dependent situation, by linking work and housing by crooked entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs make a profit by forcing huge residential costs while at the same time reducing employees' incomes to far below the minimum wage. Wages are not paid in full. Unviable accommodation is offered for too high rent. Care costs are deducted from wages, while health insurance is poorly regulated. And as soon as the migrant loses his job, in many cases he automatically loses accommodation and care. If the Netherlands cannot protect the already existing migrant workers and cannot provide them with decent living, what makes the belief that the current labour market and enforcement bodies are sufficiently equipped to allow a new group of migrant workers from non-EU countries to participate in the Dutch labour market under safe conditions? In the justification of the amendment of the Foreign Labour Act, the cabinet mentions as a goal among other things the prevention and combating of illegal employment. But these misdemeanours are typically a symptom of the illness that plagues the cabinet: the constant desire to stick no-thing patches on bone fractures. Because illegal employment is just a criminal offence. If you want to combat a criminal offence, it makes sense to me that you are committed to effective control, to effective enforcement, and not to a more flexible admission policy. What the outgoing minister is actually proposing here is that my interpretation is to resolve the shortcomings in enforcement by adapting the legislation surrounding the labour market admission procedure. Sounds to me like sticking patches on bone fractures. I see the Minister shaking no, so I will of course be very happy to hear that in his reply. The vulnerability of migrant workers in an extremely precarious situation led to immense abuses, in which intimidation and the use of incentives to maintain the workload are no exceptions. In fact, in the Netherlands more than 500 migrant workers can work twenty hours a day, until illness and fainting. One can manipulate hours registrations, keep the de facto wage at €2.50 per hour, enforce housing and collect fines on departure. One can humiliate, intimidate and insult employees. And yet one can be acquitted of labour exploitation. It's almost unbelievable. These are situations that do need legal adjustments, but then real legal adjustments that provide structural protection for workers, and not adjustments that fit somewhere very nicely on the wall in the hall of fame of misdemeanours of the Rutte III cabinet. In conclusion, the next thing I really need is a little more time. That's the language. It's been going on for a while. It has already been mentioned how important it is for people to learn the language. I totally agree with everyone. Those who master the language also give themselves some power, power to defend themselves against abuses, for example. Language matters. That is why it is important that we look at the language we are engaged in in this kind of debate and the institutionalized language that we read back in the policies and laws and regulations. Let's not forget that we're mainly talking about people here. "Virtuals" or "third-country nationals" distance these people and make them abstract, but it is about people, people who have the right to be treated as equal and full participants of this society, people who are entitled to be protected by law and regulation, by their enforcement and by the government. This cannot therefore be achieved by means of a law and a legislative proposal based on existing xenophobic restrictive policies. This calls for greater commitment to the protection of migrant workers and thus a greater role for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u89	You have a question from Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u90	It is true that people are involved; I fully agree with Mrs Simons. I just have a question to ask. Yesterday there was an arrangement of work here. Mrs Simons referred to my colleague Markuszower as 'Mr M'. What was the background to just mentioning a letter instead of a full last name?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u91	I have to give you the honest answer: I have no idea. It just blew right out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u92	Okay, then maybe deeper soul stirs are behind that, but also here, of course, it was people. Mr. Markuszower is also a human being. It could just happen, but I have to say it didn't seem sympathetic to me. Here too, of course, we are talking about people, as we are of course talking about people and as you talk about people. Perhaps it would be better to say the full name in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you for this wonderful advice and I'm sorry you don't like me. I think I'm gonna sleep less tonight than an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u94	Before you continue, there is also a question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u95	I have a point on which I would like to make a few comments. I hear Mrs Simons thinks that the policy is too restrictive. Mrs Simons added "xenophobic." Indeed, this bill does not solve very much exploitation within the framework of the Roemer Committee. I couldn't agree more. That's a different route, but it's a good thing you called it. The bill makes policy less restrictive, but at the same time I hear you say that you are opposed to this proposal. I'm not quite getting that together yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yes, I understand that, because I believe that is also at the heart of the problem of this proposal. Firstly, it is, of course, based on legislation that we already know. That is the legislation that I address as a "mighty xenophobic'. That's just... well, good. We want to make that better, but we'll take that as a starting point. As far as I'm concerned, that's where the abrasion is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u97	I find that difficult. When I came into the Chamber, I made a commitment to make things a little better. Then I've got big vistas. At the same time, I am also trying to take concrete steps. I think that's how Mrs Simons wants to act. What I find difficult about this is that the law leads to better protection, for example because people can't get money because you can't control it, and makes sure that we take some measures from the Rutte I cabinet where the original tightening up actually comes back. I had therefore actually hoped that Mrs Simons would say: it may not be my ideal world yet, but it is a step in the right direction with a law that becomes a little less restrictive. I might give her that consideration for her final consideration in her group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thanks for that. I can imagine that's how it's gonna look to you. Let me share with you the fact that this struggle is also a very big word, but after a few months here in this house we are still a little careful to assume the very best intentions of what we are presented. That is why I often make my contribution a little sharp. Then we are back to the goal of making the vistas even closer to becoming reality. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna get on with my contribution. I was talking about the language that matters. We must therefore also ask ourselves how we use that language. I therefore ask the outgoing minister how he intends to improve the position, treatment and protection of migrant workers on a structural basis. How does the extremely vulnerable position of migrant workers from non-EU countries relate to such an improvement because of their residence status? And what is the outgoing minister going to do to strengthen enforcement to fine crooked entrepreneurs and temporary employment agencies and to ban them from constantly starting up their practice? Maybe that's also a bit of an answer to the question of... let me be honest with you: I've lost your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u99	That's colleague Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr Van Weyenberg; thank you. For BET1, it is extremely important that we not only put people in their power, but that we also maintain where it is necessary. 'Cause that's just really left behind. Of course, I am also curious to see what the Minister is doing with the advice endorsed by the FNV, the CNV and the ESC, but above all with the advice of the Employment Migrant Protection Team. When are we going to put this into practice in full and at what time can we expect every person present in the Netherlands to be treated in a humane manner? And in what period can we expect everyone to have the right to live, work, care and a safe life unhindered? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u101	I'll see you, too. There is another question from Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u102	Wiersma, Wiersma, Wiersma, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr. W. I would also like to say to Mrs Simons that Mrs Simons was very poetic, so I would like to give her a chance to continue with that. I have one more question, more out of curiosity. That restrictive thing we were talking about, and then you can take a turn to "xenophobic," but I'm trying to look for something in this case has a purpose, because we're looking at the Dutch labour market. We are all representatives of the Netherlands and of people looking for work in the Netherlands. The aim of this law is to see if we are doing everything we can to provide people in the Netherlands with work if there is work in the Netherlands. Or do we sometimes make it very easy not to look in the Netherlands, but to find that work elsewhere? Am I supposed to understand that you're not okay with that? Do you think that's restrictive? Because I'd say we have a duty to see what we can do for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u104	Unfortunately, we often see that it pays to get people from abroad, because they are easier to abuse. So when we make sure that abuse is reduced and made more difficult, it simply doesn't pay any more to get people from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u105	Once upon a time, but making this an attractive place for decent employership and not making it attractive for indecent employership, so I do not think that we agree on that, you can also see as being more restrictive when someone is allowed to come here and not come here. That's how I see it restrictive. You give it a xenophobic translation. I do not think there is much light between what we find, but between the choice of words. That's what I was curious about. But I think we're...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u106	Closer together...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u107	Pretty close together. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u108	Sure. Thank you, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u111	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.20 p.m. Then we'll start the meeting again around 12:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u112	I would like to welcome the Minister again. Members are now running to this room. The Minister has the floor and we would like to hear from him how many blocks he is going to deal with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your questions. I did get three folders. My first folder contains a general introduction plus the general questions about the bill. That's the biggest block. The second folder deals with specific groups, in particular Asian catering and the specific groups about which questions have been asked. The third block deals more with the issue of abuses and enforcement, which has also been the subject of a number of questions. First of all, I would like to outline what this is about and in what context this bill needs to be read, because I understand very well that there are a lot of questions about it. It may seem as if this bill is about all labour migration, but that is of course not the case. The amendment of the Foreign Labour Act, the Wav, which is now before us, concerns labour migration of people from third countries, i.e. not from EU/EEA countries, i.e. the European Economic Area. On the basis of the Wav, an employer is prohibited from having a migrant from a third country work in the Netherlands without an employment permit. Despite this amendment to the law, this will continue to apply. Workers from other European Member States shall not be required to obtain employment permits. It's a long word. Free movement applies and people from those countries can simply come to work in the Netherlands without a permit. I understand the questions that have been asked about this, and about abuses, particularly in areas such as housing, underpayment, exploitation. Those are legitimate questions. The cabinet asked Mr Roemer to give an opinion on this, in two steps: first corona-related and later wider. Why did I do that? I asked for this opinion because I found that there are real abuses, which are structural and involve a lot of departments and a lot of implementing bodies. The accommodation is located at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Enforcement is carried out by the Inspection SZW. The legislation is sometimes with me, sometimes with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example when it comes to the address details. Then you can see that in the cooperation between the government and the municipalities things often fall between ship and ship. That is why I asked Mr Roemer to give us advice on how we are going to solve this structuralally. I am very pleased that your Chamber, when we dealt with this earlier this year, has adopted the Van Weyenberg and others motion. We are going to implement these recommendations. At that time, I also indicated that I would start working as a outgoing minister, with all the recommendations that do not need a legislative amendment. We're working very hard on that right now. This is about address quality, which is about better enforcement, Inspection SZW, about all kinds of elements that we are already working on. I also said at the time: if there is a need for a change of law, then I think that it should be decided at the formation table or that it should be laid down there. In addition, there has been an ESC opinion since then, which is also very much in line with the recommendation from the Roemer Committee. I think this is a very important issue and I understand and realize that these things are linked. Mr Gijs van Dijk also asked for this. Mrs Simons asked about the letter from the FNV who referred to it. It is not strictly about this bill, but it is, of course, issues that affect labour migration. I'm very motivated and committed to really taking that one step further. We are already working on this, but again, the whole discussion about the future of the broadcasting industry, about the deposit of €100,000 to prevent cowboys from operating, the discussion about the contract: that is up to the formation. That requires legislative changes, and we are now preparing to do so, so that the forming parties can make a decision on this in the formation. Let's finish with that. I understand the questions that have been asked about this, but this is not at the heart of the matter. From time to time it gets to the point, I honestly say, because sometimes it is also about people who, on the basis of the Labour Law, have an employment permit in the Netherlands, where there is also exploitation. You also know the examples of the Rhine or the signals that came in from the Asian catering industry. These are, in fact, signs of unequal treatment or a poor position on the labour market. There too we must maintain, and we have the Inspection SZW who can act on signals there, or who also, for example, enforce the Law on minimum wage. But that's only a smaller part of this law. There are a number of facts and figures that were asked for in the debate; what are we actually talking about? 2020 may have been a bit of a special year because of corona, but if you look at the last ten years, and those figures have also been included in the note following the report, you will see about 10,000 employment permits, of which only a small part, 500, 700, 800, is a full labour market test. So we are looking at whether something is a priority; is there sufficient supply in the Netherlands or in Europe of people who want to do this work? So that's a relatively small proportion of these 10,000 a year. The remaining 8,000 to 9,000 licences are granted with a limited labour market test. So I shall say that it does not look at whether there is a priority offer. These are, for example, permits issued on special schemes, for example international students who work in the Netherlands of an additional nature for up to one year. That was 4,200 in 2020. So you can see that almost half of those 9,000 international students are. In the Asian horéca sector, it was there, rounded up, 2,100. The knowledge migrants with short stays, so people who work briefly in the Netherlands on the basis of knowledge schemes, there were about 800. Normally there are a little more, but because of corona that number has become much smaller in 2020. This is not to be confused with the migrant knowledge scheme, because that migrant knowledge scheme is not covered by the Foreign Labour Act. It is, I shall say, a stronger right of residence on the basis of a number of criteria, so that you can work longer here in the Netherlands if you earn a certain income. Well, why am I sketching this? And by the way, the rest of the 9,000, they're athletes, Beyoncé, coming here. And yes, priority offer of singers will surely be there, but I still think that Ahoy or the Ziggo Dome will be filled mainly because Beyoncé comes, and not because there's someone like me... Yes, Mr. Heerma points to me, and I would love that very much, although I don't think the 10,000 people in the Ziggo Dome. But these are the facts and figures that this law is about. So we are talking about a relatively limited group, which I would say was very much the subject of the discussion just in the first term. But Mr Wiersma is already getting up to do an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u114	Yes, and that's why I'm giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u115	No, just a quick question, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister say something about these different groups, what is the average length, usually, of that working time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u116	Not a complete overview, but for international students, for example, it is often up to one year. Asian cuisine is two years old. The short-term stay is by definition short-term. For knowledge migrants it is often a bit longer, but they are not covered by the Wav scheme. But this step we are taking is, in fact, also an enlargement. And that was also a bit of Mr Van Weyenberg's remark, because the question about the purpose of this legislation is that in practice it is found that employers always have to start recruiting at the time the permit is granted, and that it is also good for the employee if he is involved in the company for a longer period and develops specific knowledge and skills there. That is, of course, why we are taking this step, and it is also laid down in the coalition agreement. But you can see that different groups have different durations. And you have also seen in the legislative proposal that the main rule of the law, which Mr Heerma rightly said, is actually going from one to a maximum of three years, but with lower regulations, the BUWav. Those abbreviations: you have the decision and the arrangement... It's great to really dive in here. With the underlying laws and regulations, you can actually look at the supply available to fulfil functions through the AMvB on the basis of labour market shortages, based on an assessment of the economic situation, but also towards Mrs Maatoug of the sectoral labour market shortage. You have implicitly included the sectoral component. In the case of lower regulations, we are now doing two years as a standard. That is possible, that is lower regulation and that has made it more flexible. So it is better to respond to developments in the labour market. Suppose the labour market becomes much tighter because the economy is developing well and there really is a screaming shortage of people in not only the hospitality industry but also in health care, for example, then that flexibility in the lower regulation can prolong that period if you think that is desirable. It is lower regulation, it is an AMvB, but my fine political feeling does say that if the Minister for Social Affairs does, there will certainly be a debate about it in your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u117	My feeling is that there's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u118	So those two years apply to the whole group. So for the students, for that short stay, that's three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u119	The two years are about the group undergoing the full labour market test. That's 500 to 800 a year. Priority offers are then first looked at. In other words, are there people in the Netherlands or in the European Union who can also fill this vacancy? Secondly, has the employer made sufficient efforts? The combination of these is the test for the UWV to grant employment permit or no employment permit. The two years in the BUWav, so the decision, is aimed at the full labour market test. The other schemes also remain, for example the Catering Scheme. For example, for international students or people working for an international school, this bill does not change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u120	So that two years is for the full labour market test. There are 800 or 880 in 2019. It shall apply for a maximum period of two years. That's also consistent with what I read. The question now is whether what is now a year is going to be standard for all these other groups in principle three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u121	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u122	Then how is that arranged? Then what does it say in the BuWav?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u123	The main rule is now one year and is therefore unnecessarily oppressive for many situations. The practical solution in recent years has then been to make an exception for specific groups by choosing a different period or criteria. That is why there are separate arrangements for artists, for international students, for Asian cooks and so on, also because every time in your Chamber the employers' request was rightly accepted, in the sense of: there are no people who want to do this work but we do have a screaming shortage of people, so please hand over the employment permit. I am not going to change these underlying arrangements now, because that would lead to unrest, uncertainty and hassle. What I do do is change the main rule in a year to three years, which, in my opinion, reduces the need to make specific exceptions. For the students or for the Asian catering industry, nothing changes with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u124	If I understand the Minister correctly, he says: what we now make as the main rule is often already in the exceptions. There's that term, sometimes up to three years, already in it. The Asian restaurant stays for two years. If they want to do something through the ordinary employment permit route, they can, but then they are covered by the full labour market test and then it is at most two years. So there's no risk of those three years. However, the question remains whether we are changing something that was not meant to be de facto, namely that we have created so many exceptions whereby we could stay for more than a year with an employment permit. The question remains whether this is desirable or not. The Minister says that it is desirable to do so. But do we have any idea how this really meets a need in the labour market? Hence my question as to how often this is taken on average. Of course, of these three years there is a very inviting effect, of which I wonder whether we should always be willing to offer this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u125	I am genuinely following Mr Wiersma's question. I'm gonna try to peel it off, the other way. We now have employment permits. The main rule is: one year. We note that this is unnecessarily tight in a number of sectors, in a number of situations, with the result that we are going to make exceptions to that main rule, separate arrangements that give more space, for students, for catering, for teachers of international schools, for artists. That's one. Two is, and Mr Van Weyenberg rightly pointed out in his first term, that because of that one year, the main rule is uncertainty with the migrant worker but also with the employer: I have just found someone to be able to do this work for a year, but I am not sure if it will be extended later, so I am going to start again with recruitment efforts, while someone only has the job after a few months, so only then will the employment relationship be good. So if we can make that period a little longer, it is better for both the employer and the migrant. Three is that I hope and expect that by making that main rule a little wider, up to a maximum of three years, you will get less hassle and less pressure on all kinds of specific exceptions. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is still a kind of balance to be sought between this area, the flexibility to fulfil those functions, and the protection of the Dutch labour market. Therefore, in the main rule it is up to 3 years, but depending on the situation on the labour market, you give a different period in lower regulation. This is now two years in the BUWav for the full labour market test. That's the whole story. For the rest, not that much changes in itself. So I do not understand exactly what Mr Wiersma's question means from the changes I have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u126	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u127	No, I get that. I'm just trying to understand where it comes from. Theoretically, I do understand. That flexibility is interesting. It's handy, too, I think. It is also good for an employer to ensure continuity. So I get that. At the same time, as I have just said, all the examples that the Minister gives up are short stays, such as students, musicians and artists. So the question is: there isn't exactly that need for longer stays. I also understand when the Minister says he wants fewer exceptions. But then I'm looking: is it the intention that more people will come through the regular, full labour market test of the UWV? In fact, fewer exceptions means automatically: more in that full labour market test, because that means that there is more going through the main rule. Is that indeed the purpose? Do we want to bring more people under the full labour market test of the UWV? That would reassure me somewhat. We want you to always take a test on whether you can find people in the Netherlands or in Europe. If you make it automatically for three years, then the question is whether we should take that test more frequently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u128	Where did it come from? It's from the coalition agreement, of course. That is where this direction has been chosen. Two. What is the background to this direction? That is exactly the point Mr Van Weyenberg described: the uncertainty of employers and workers' representatives, and investing in the slightly longer situation. In practice, it is often the case that a kind of retest is requested after a year. For example, you ask for an extension. The full labour market test to see if there is any other offer in the Netherlands or in Europe will simply remain. That does not change at all for the group to which this refers, the group that has to pass the full labour market test. In addition, there are other groups, such as international students and Asian chefs, which are subject to a different regime, including the full labour market test... Oh, I'm sorry, those Asian chefs are, because that's where priority offers are being looked at. Anyway, I won't make it any more complicated. In my view, this is also the first-term misunderstanding, because Mr Wiersma suggested that this test should expire on offer. That's not true. It's just gonna last. The relaxation that's in it is about the employer's efforts. For now it is a kind of mandatory provision that the employer must have made an effort, otherwise he will not get an employment permit, even if there is a lot of crunch. In practice, this leads to frustration, even with the UWV, which says: we know that there is no offer and that you would actually get an employment permit, but you have not gone through all the steps in terms of administrative burdens and recruitment efforts, and that is why we should not grant that permit. Mr Heerma spoke, along with the Bosman Committee, about more room for the professional. The request of the UWV also gives us that space to offer customization. I would like to do that, but that is without prejudice to the fact that this test, on priority terms and not on the supply side, will continue to exist; it is therefore literally a question of whether there are people in the Netherlands or in the European Union who can fulfil it. That is why it is not an open system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u129	It's a really short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u130	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u131	I think we're doing the whole law at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u132	Then we'll be done soon, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about specific implementation, because that point will come back a few times. I am curious to see how many cases are involved in practice, because of course this workload is not that big. That's why I asked about the one and those three years. Let me get this straight. The Minister says: I would indeed like to have fewer exceptions; therefore, I adapt the main rule; if it is right, it will give us fewer exceptions. We don't know if it's gonna work, but we're gonna monitor it. Several questions have been asked about that. Is that the target? For then, the goal is also to bring more people under the full labour market test of the UWV. Now, if you're not covered by that, there's gonna be an exception. You want fewer exceptions, so they automatically come under the full labour market test. Is that the case? 'Cause if you don't, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u133	But the order is the other way around. We now have arrangements for specific groups. I'm not gonna change that. There are separate arrangements for this. My expectation is that, by doing so, we will in future have less pressure on new separate arrangements. That's the order. Mr Wiersma seems to suggest that those other groups too are now coming under the full labour market test, but that is not the case. My expectation is that when there are new groups, this happens once in a while, there is less need for all kinds of specific exceptions. In my view, that is the intention of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u134	What we're doing here is currently about a route for about 800 people a year. For this purpose, the time limit in the law goes from one to a maximum of three years. Lower regulation says: it's a maximum of three, but we'll start with two. I have a question about that. That's where my dead letter question came from. This extension to three years is therefore not currently being applied in practice to this group. I'm looking for how that's organized: when can this be the case? That we start with two years, I understand; I can live with that. But I'd like to know when we're just gonna do three, otherwise the three will be a dead letter. Again, it's 800 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u135	In fact, that is Mrs Maatoug's question in her first term. I'm gonna answer that right away. The main rule will be: up to one year, up to three years. That's the main rule. Depending on the situation on the labour market, lower regulation will determine what is the right time frame. We have decided, bearing in mind comments from the trade union movement and from all kinds of experts on this bill, that it would be wise at the present time to assume two years. That's what's in the pieces. In the BuWav these two years are laid down. Once every two years we look at the situation in the labour market. That is cyclical, as I say to Mrs Maatoug, but also sectoral, because functions are also being looked at and priority is being attached to supply within these functions. So if, for example, the labour market has become much tighter over two years, if it is looked at again, and if there is a need to issue those permits for a longer period of time, then that period can be moved from two years to, for example, three years or to two years and eleven months; I do not think the latter would be obvious, but it could be. It may also be that, if the economic situation is reversed, you say: we now think it wise to go from two years to one year. But that depends on the situation on the labour market at the time. This goes through lower regulation, making it more flexible. My political point of just now was: this is always such a politically sensitive subject, that my successor will probably put such an AMvB before he takes that decision, because of course there will have to be a debate on the direction in which that happens. But Mr Van Weyenberg is right. The possibility of up to three is now framed to two. In two years' time the situation of the labour market will be reviewed; cyclically and sectorally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you. This is a clarification. My last question is this. Now there is a kind of rule of two in that decision. So not using the three years tops, but up to two. Do I understand that there is scope for more sectoral differences in a future decision? Now it is the same for everything, namely two, while I can imagine that next time we will have more space. Nothing stands in the way of differentiation then, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u137	Out of my mind, I say no. But if it's all right with you, I'm gonna go check it out for the second term. I'm pretty quick to say "no" now, without knowing exactly if it's true. It seems logical to me what you are saying, because you are also looking at the sectoral cut-off, I shall say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u138	Thanks for the answer so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u139	So far...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u140	Let me get this straight. I have to say that after Mr Van Weyenberg's questions, the debate on the interruption has just been clarified. The explanatory memorandum states that '... lower regulation may determine when the maximum duration is desirable'. I understand the logic. We also hear sectorally that you have a desire to distinguish, with two as the norm in the decision. I ask my question because we do not want to constantly clarify that standard and then make an exception, specifically in time. What is the framework within which you say: in these cases the norm is two, because that is desirable, but in other cases it is one and in the cases that Mr Van Weyenberg asks for, it is three? When and how do you determine that, in general terms, without being very specific? That is really unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u141	That is what I have just tried to say, and it is also in the explanatory memorandum and the note on the report. This is determined on the basis of the cyclical situation, i.e. the shortage of the labour market, with a specialization to the jobs of the labour market. In other words, when applying for employment permits for certain functions, it also looks at whether there are people in the files of the UWV who are looking for a job in such a job. As a result, you have not only the cyclical element, but also a kind of sectoral function-oriented element, more precisely, on the basis of which you can test this. Once every two years you take a picture of the situation and the expectation of what will happen in the labour market over the next two years. What does that mean for the possibilities of issuing employment permits and for what duration? It may be that in two years' time, when that test is done again and the labour market is extremely tight for a number of jobs, you say: we have now chosen two years, but by that time we will do three years. That could be a possibility, but it is a consideration that needs to be made at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u142	Let me get this straight: I'm au pair. I'm from Chile. I am now covered by an exception. What does this new framework decision mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u143	Au pair is very complicated. That's a completely different arrangement. That's where other salary agreements apply. It is a voluntary scheme with limited remuneration. If you take another example, I think it would be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u144	I'm a teacher at an international school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u145	Yeah, and in two years, there's gonna be a big cut to those teachers, so to speak. Especially in international schools, because the whole world wants to live in the Netherlands because of the successful policy of the Rutte III cabinet. There's really tight. Then you could decide to say: you know what, we're not going to record two years in the buwav, but three years. Once again, this depends on the labour market shortage test, which you do once every two years to see if the duration is still good for the labour market. One more disclaimer: I will come back in the second term to Mr Van Weyenberg's point about sectoral differences. I'm not quite sure. I do not know how this is done in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u146	Finally, and then I am going to wait for the rest of the response to the labour market test. The confusion is that we are constantly talking about the interaction between the labour market test and the duration of two or three years. In two years, you're going to re-evaluate on the labour market test. In the decision we have different standards on what is desirable for the time being. This is determined by the economic situation. My question is as follows. At the moment, it's completely unclear. Are there any handles about the norm of desirability? Partly it is cyclical, partly sectoral. I'm gonna wait for an answer on sectoral, but there's my confusion. I hope we can make that clear in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u147	Yeah, that's good. I will finish exactly how this is done in the AMvB, so how it is operationalised in the decision and the scheme, the WWav and the RuWav.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u148	I have a question following on from Mrs Maatoug's questions. The Minister indicated that he would return to this in part in the second term, but in the written answer to the questions put by GroenLinks and D66 on the advice of the ACVZ to establish a broad advisory committee, the answer is very short and concise: none of this is necessary. Given the interruption debate with Mrs Maatoug, one could argue that, if you want to do this sectorally well, such a broad advisory committee in the two-year period can indeed be of added value in order to identify these sectoral differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u149	In my view, the opinions of the advisory committee were on issues which do not directly concern the change of the Wav. That was also the reason why, in the legislative proposal, we had in the first instance limited our response to the opinions of the ACVZ. The Council of State later made a comment on this. That's when we did it more extensively. The questions raised on the basis of the ACVZ are, in my view, two main lines. One is the question of whether you need a two-year limitation or a BuWav, or whether you can't just release everything. In my view, given the comments of the trade union movement and given the assessment of the political force field, this was not sensible. The other point was about asylum holders. That's another group. This is about people who have applied for asylum in the Netherlands and who will soon be covered by the obligation of integration. That may have been the confusion at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u150	Okay. I'm going to rephrase my question. Given the Minister's reply, the interpretation given to the ACVZ report by D66 and GroenLinks in the written round may be slightly different from that given to the Minister's. Perhaps the Minister is right about that. But the D66 Group specifically asked in the written round whether a broad advisory committee could not help to understand exactly what those deficit professions and deficit sectors are. That has been answered in a rather short and negative way in the written round. Given the interruption debate just with GroenLinks on the guidelines for the two-year trade-off period, my question is: could such an advisory committee, which focuses on this, not have any added value in the consideration of how the lower regulation will turn out in two years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u151	But actually, that's what we're already doing, or what the UWV is doing based on the question of whether there's a shortage on the labour market and thus getting cut in those jobs. Hence the short, brief reply in the written report. I find that different from forms of legal migration or the question of how we deal with asylum status holders who want to work when they are here for six months. That's a broader discussion. I understand that. There has also been a lot of debate about it with the Secretary of State of JenV in another committee, but strictly speaking we are already doing it for this test via the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u152	I came forward to ask a question, but then the Minister actually answered it. That's good for a follow-up question. I was curious to know who will assess how much more or less demand is in the various sectors at what point in time with regard to the economic situation. Then the minister spontaneously said that the UWV does. That's the answer to that question, I think. But then I'm still looking for the answer to the question on what basis. I imagine it's UWV saying that based on their Rolodesk, they determine how many people are looking and how many people they can place. Can we then be sure that they have an overview of all sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u153	Yes. The UWV looks at the entire Dutch labour market and thus all the functions that are required.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u154	Do you have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u155	I have to put the question right. Yes, the UWV looks at the whole labour market, but there are of course sectors that do not lean so strongly on the UWV. As a result, the UWV may not have a complete picture of certain sectors. I am completely open to it when the Minister says: yes, the UWV does. Then I'll believe it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u156	I think there's some confusion here. The UWV is responsible for the implementation of employment permits. An employer can then not fill a job vacancy, because there are shortages in a particular job and therefore wants someone from outside Europe to come to the Netherlands to fill the job. That's what the UWV is charged with. This is another task of the UWV than, for example, the benefits or helping the unemployed. That's one. Of course, the UWV has a lot of insight into the state of the labour market. Where are the vacancies? Where are the deficits? Two to three times a year, the UWV also makes a very nice analysis of what crunchy sectors and surplus sectors are and what we can expect. For the employment permits, therefore, the UWV tests whether there are people in the Netherlands or in Europe who can fulfil that function. It's called "priority offer." And if that is the case, then that permit will not be granted. Someone from a third country will then not have access to the Dutch labour market. That's the job. The other task is to help supply and demand in the labour market. The UWV therefore has a great deal of insight into this and uses that knowledge and information also for the assessment of those employment permits. That is also the response to Mr Heerma's question: that is what the UWV is already doing at the full labour market test if an employer wants to bring someone to the Netherlands with an employment permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u157	A very clear and satisfying answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u158	There is a short question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u159	I understand that the UWV is testing in the daily work within the decisions that are now there. Fine. But the search of Mrs Maatoug and myself is in something else. I understand the Minister just as well that he says: we have already framed 800 people for the next two years to a maximum of two years for the present. If we start looking at how we're going to do that again in two years' time, there'll be no hard criteria when I sum it up, but then we're just gonna look again. And the Minister would come back to whether we were going to make a sectoral distinction. But for that moment, I would find such an opinion, which the advisory committee advocates, a nice addition. I am not talking about the day-to-day test for each application in that framework of those two years, but about the time when you are going to look every two years to see if you want that limit of two years again, or perhaps want to differentiate or still want to go to three years. That's what Mrs Maatoug and I are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u160	I'm sorry, but I really don't understand the question. Could you help me one more time? I'll try to frame it myself, find out where the misunderstanding is. This draft law amends the term of the employment permit from a maximum of one year to a maximum of three years. Then we listen carefully to all the signals from society, such as trade unions and so on. The underlying regulation states that if you go through the full labour market test, think of the discussion on the priority offer................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And then we're going to see how the labour market develops over time. This is now laid down in the lower regulation, and if there is any reason to adapt it in the future, or because the labour market is becoming very broad or because the labour market is becoming very tight, then there is a new weighing-up. But that is not the proposal now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u161	I know, but that's the search we have now. I understand that the UWV now looks at the daily work per job vacancy. I get that. The question was this. It has now been decided to apply a maximum of two years in the decision for the coming years, while the law refers to a maximum of three years. That's based on something and we're going to revisit it at some point. In my opinion, the search by many Members, at least by Mrs Maatoug and myself: where do you base that on and why? I think the picture is that you'll just make a new weighting, a little "new round, new opportunities." I think it would be wise, for example, to include such advice from the Advisory Council if you once again question the maximation over two years. I'm not talking about the law. What is happening at the moment is that the law says "maximum three" but that this time limit is immediately limited to a maximum of two years in the implementing acts. We want to know: on what basis do you base that and how will you do that consideration in the future? Because those three years is a dead letter if you don't know what's going on below. Hopefully this will help with the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u162	Yes, now I understand your question and also Heerma's question better. I'm gonna take it back for suspension in a minute, and I'll come back to that in a second term. My picture is always that the ACVZ makes all kinds of recommendations about asylum status holders or about generic things, but you take this discussion together as it were. Yeah, okay. I'm going to reflect on that in the break or in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u163	Perhaps one more question could be added to that reflection by Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yes, Chairman, that's my ambition. I understood Mr Van Weyenberg, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u165	But you're also a lot more intelligent than I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u166	Yeah, I was wondering how. I didn't know that. How can I understand Mr Van Weyenberg? The question of what the criteria and policies are based on has also been raised by the FNV, for example. I would find it interesting if, in his reflection, the Minister could take all these expanding exceptions with him and bring them along the measuring bar. This is about a group of only 800, but the large bulk is of course in the other group. I think it is important that we also take into account whether this is still in line with labour market shortages in the broad context and that we take this into account in a sectorial way. I think it's good to take the whole thing and not just the small group of 800. It's one policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u167	But does Mr Wiersma now ask to review, for example, the regulations for international students, the Asian catering industry and international teachers? To be honest, I don't feel that much about that. This is going to create an enormous amount of uncertainty and hassle. Also given the capacity we have, that is not my priority. But I will put this next to the combined request of Maatoug, Van Weyenberg and Heerma for my reflection in the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u168	I'm talking about a congruent argument. It can help if there are criteria that are also discussed sectorally and that they are not criteria that are just about a group of 800 people, but are relevant to the whole policy we have in the implementing decision scheme. I am not saying that we should change it, but that we should include it fully in the review so that we have an overall picture and the image does not remain so fragmented. That's my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u169	Yes, but we also need to ensure reliable government and predictability. Over the past two weeks, I have seen how the Asian catering industry reacted to my letter from two weeks ago. So I do not want to create all kinds of unrest in this regard. But I'll come back to it in a very nicely rounded piece. Meanwhile, I also occasionally get a message on my phone to see if people can help me live. Then it was about recruitment efforts. Mr Wiersma's question was what changes in its flexible application. I thought that Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma also indicated this. It is about the room for the professional to say: "We know that there is no priority offer in this situation. We know that employers have to go through some sort of administrative tiger, but we now have to test for that legally. We have to reject even if that is not the case, when we actually know that this employer cannot go anywhere." That is why I have proposed to relax on that point and to give the professional more room for consideration in that regard. But again, that doesn't mean that the key to the priority offer has expired. Mr Wiersma makes that suggestion, even with his amendment. At least that suggestion is made in the explanatory statement to his amendment. I don't think that's correct. So I would also ask Mr Wiersma to take a look at that, because that is not the case. If that fear can be overcome, then I could also imagine that the amendment is actually superfluous. 'Cause that priority-oriented supply test just stays there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u170	On this point, I would like to ask one more question, possibly to remove my fear of a lobby from certain sectors that may arise towards the UWV. Especially from a number of sectors where abuses are already taking place and where we know that little is being paid, there can be enormous pressure. It can be said that we cannot have anyone, so let us also look outside Europe. This increases the problem of wrongdoing. How can we remove that lobby pressure? That lobby pressure is just there, is already there, and is likely to increase. How can we remove that pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u171	In my opinion, Mr Van Dijk has just given the answer, because of course there is pressure now. That pressure is very strong, not only at the UWV, but also in your room. All kinds of specific groups come to you to say: we want an exception to that rule. I don't think that's gonna change anything. What do I think is changing? Now there has to be some coercive testing that even the professional thinks: I know it is, but now I have to disappoint someone and not give a permit, and let the whole process go through again, when I know this is the situation. We let the laws of force lapse, so it can still be applied by the employee of the UWV, by the professional. It can say: you did not make sufficient efforts, because if you had, you could have found something. Only the compelling nature of it is now being demolished. We'll make that a little smoother. I also felt that, for example, the letter from the FNV made this too big a point. The signals from practice say exactly: adjust this, because it simply makes the process less bureaucratic. It's just frustrating for some people now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u172	Is there a broad view of the UWV? We were just talking about education, for example. Suppose there is a shortage of education while, for example, jobs are disappearing when everything is flying around. I can imagine that the UWV might then be able to match and encourage people to move from one sector to another. Or is it just a purely sectoral view? Do we have enough teachers? Do we have enough teachers in two years? And should we ask for an outside permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u173	What I do not understand very well about this question is what the difference is with the current situation. Because, in fact, the current situation is exactly the same. The only thing is that in 2014 this mandatory provision came into force, based on the idea: the employer must make such efforts. But we find eight or seven years later that this is actually an administrative tiger, or whatever you want to call it. So we're gonna give the professional a little more space. But in the past period, the whole of your room has said on all kinds of other themes: trust that professional a little more when delivering customization. And apart from that, of course, there will always be pressure on some sectors or functions where they say: do something more flexible. That's what's going on every day. And the UWV can really resist that, because I know that's where real professionals work. So I feel like I'm gonna swim with you if I go along with your question, which I don't think is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u174	I think I'm trying not to let the Minister swim in a trap, but to ask a question. That professional needs that space and we need to give that space more to the professional. In that respect, I can follow the Minister. But there are shortages in education. Does this professional also look at, for example, opportunities for education, opportunities that arise in sectors where we see jobs disappear because there are either...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u175	Oh, yeah. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u176	Is that a broad view?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yeah, sure. In fact, the very broad approach to employment now, including the regional labour market tables, is also, of course, about how to ensure that people can be helped from sectors where there are surpluses, through corona but perhaps also structuralally, to a job in a cramped sector. It is now happening, for example, from the catering sector to the health care sector. There are really very good examples of this. It is also about the other branch of the UWV, about which I also spoke to Mrs Simons. That's actually what it's all about, putting it in place, matching it and preventing people from getting into benefits. That is, of course, taken into account. I think education is another complicated example. Because it is either about international education, which is subject to separate regulations, or about people who have pabo-training or education, which are often very highly educated, who cannot be transferred from one sector to another. This will be done, also with the OCW action plans to address the teacher shortage or with the action plan of the VWS Ministry to address care shortages. There is indeed investment in retraining and further training, by seducing people from one sector to another. Giving Dutch at a primary school and giving it an employment permit is not really obvious, I would say. If it does, I'll look into the questions in the Chamber. Mr Van Baarle asked: can the Minister reflect on why it is not returning to the situation before 2014? I explained in detail why that step was taken in 2014 and why that mandatory test came into being. The situation before 2014 imposes a heavy burden of proof on the UWV, while ultimately the employer assesses whether a candidate is fit to fill the vacancy. This does not fit in with the current role of the UWV in employment services, where transparency of supply and demand, which is actually the answer to a question from Mrs Simons, is also central. In response to a question from Mr Wiersma, the key remains that priority-oriented supply is being tested. The only relaxation there is is that all kinds of administrative obligations are reduced, and for 2014 there were a lot of other administrative obligations. So it doesn't seem attractive to me to go back into the system. This is part of the reflection during my break. Mrs Maatoug asked whether it would be appropriate to send the opinions when a law is being discussed. That is indeed good and also usual. Public opinions are also included in the legislative proposal. The explanatory memorandum also incorporates opinions into the legislative proposal, which has also happened here. However, in the first instance, only the opinions of the ACVZ had been responded to the legislative proposal in the explanatory memorandum. As I said just now, part of the advice was not about the legislative proposal, but about asylum status holders, for example. We didn't take it in the first place. The Council of State then said, "Do it, and then we did it." It is therefore also included in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal on all the points the ACVZ recommends. Mr Van Baarle and Mr Wiersma asked about the evaluation and monitoring of the bill. The UWV keeps track of the number of applications for employment permits and GVVAs received and publishes an annual overview in its annual report. This gives an annual overview of the number of employment permits. On that basis, a very good picture can actually be obtained... an even better picture than what you get if you wait three years... of the effects of the change. This type of change is always difficult to distinguish between a legislative change and a cyclical effect. Because 2020 was of course a special year by corona, which made it artificial for some parts somewhat lower. On the SZW budget, we keep an annual overview of the number of employment permits. That is why we did not think it necessary to include an evaluation clause in the legislative proposal, because you can actually follow what is happening every year, so that you do not need a separate evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u178	Thank you for the Minister's reply. It is precisely because it is so sensitive to the economic situation that I do not think it is enough to report it annually in the standard reports we already have. Look, we're adopting legislation here, which has a certain reason and a certain purpose. I think it would be wise to carry out an assessment over a longer period of time to see whether the objective of the legislation has been achieved, regardless of the annual fluctuations we have with each other. So if the Minister can at least promise that we will have an assessment over the longer term indicating whether the intended objective has been achieved and whether there may also be negative effects in practice, then the Minister will save me a second-term motion or amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u179	Yes, of course that's a very attractive offer. The policy is, of course, being evaluated by default. Within the budget articles of the Ministry of SZW, all articles are passed once every seven years and the policy is evaluated. In my view, what Mr Van Baarle is looking for is, as I understand it, the extension of Mrs Maatoug's and Mr Van Weyenberg's questions, namely: at what frequency do you look at the labour market shortage and what does that mean for these laws and regulations? I shall therefore return to my officials in a moment to answer them in the second term. Then I will take your question with me, in the hope that we will be able to avoid a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u180	Let's see if we can avoid another motion. Is it possible to get into the annual report that contains those figures... I have just looked that up; they are in it, but there is no breakdown to the exceptions and the different categories. Would that breakdown be possible from now on? Then you can also keep an eye on the developments in those breakdowns. Of course, that's where the big main foot is. Well, that helps to have that image. Then it might be less necessary to have a very comprehensive...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u181	I'll see if that's possible. I understand that question. Mr. Chairman. I'm already at my second folder. I'm gonna go read this quietly in a minute. First, Mr Wiersma's question about the state-of-the-art threat and recognition of reference and also Investico's report on state-owned actors. What I find complicated is that I'm not about this. I have just had contact with the JenV ministry this morning, with Mrs Ankie Broekers-Knol, to get a response to this, because it is her policy area. It is also the IND that executes it, and the IND belongs to the ministry of JenV. I understand the point. I'll share the point. We all share the concerns there. But now I'm going to read things that I'm not going to read myself about. So if you'll give me some comfort that you won't interrupt the mother... The IND carries out a public order test on all foreigners, including in the case of immigrant acquaintances. It consists of the search of the Judicial Information Service and of a number of other national and European police systems. That's one. Two are: the IND is always alert to signals that may indicate possible abuse or fraud and signals that may indicate that a company or a foreigner is a threat to public policy or national security. That also applies specifically to espionage. So those signals are picked up by the IND and they are followed up. In the case of an application for recognition, the records of the legal person wishing to be recognised, for example, shall be checked. It also checks the background of legal persons and natural persons involved as directors of the organisation. However, with regard to Investico's reporting and Mr Wiersma's question about the cabinet's willingness to strengthen policy, the Secretary of State wishes to emphasise that further efforts are being made to better address these forms of abuse. However, a balance is sought between the continued facilitation of knowledge migrants, benevolent companies and labour market bottlenecks, and the exclusion of people and organisations that are malicious. In this context, the JenV Ministry is currently working with the NCTV and the IND to clearly identify the potential risks and vulnerabilities of the knowledge migrants scheme and the system of recognised referencing in the context of national security. If vulnerabilities emerge from that investigation, the Secretary of State will take steps to improve it. This was the response of the ministry of JenV. Moreover, I fully understand Mr Wiersma's point of content. We agree on that, too. But this is already part of the system at the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u182	Yeah, part of it is, part of it isn't. That's what the IND says, by the way. Criminal prosecution abroad is not checked, and there are certainly no crosschecks done on board directors of companies. But they can be listed here as a reliable organization. Those are organisations that work with SZW and the UWV. Of course the IND is in between, but the question is also: should there sometimes be an additional link between the AIVD? I understand that the Minister says that this should be primarily with JenV, but then I would like to hear from the Minister that he feels at least an obligation to address this discussion there and at least from those two points of view could give the Chamber a response to that investigation. I also made the proposal to put in a security check. I do not, of course, rule out the possibility of a motion on this later. I think it'll help to take a step. It's not, as the IND says, that it's all enough already. The IND can see for itself that you could do more. The question is more in what way we could shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u183	What I find complicated... Once again, I understand Mr Wiersma's question and I understand the direction in which it is going. Because I ran into something in the newspaper, I turned off the question at the JenV Ministry this morning to respond to this. This is the reaction I got. I find it complicated to say something about this on behalf of the IND now. If Mr Wiersma asks me to pass on this signal and take it with him in the cabinet to see what we can do about it, I would like to do so. So I would like to make that commitment, but I cannot speak for the IND here, nor for the Secretary of State for JenV. So we're really gonna have to pick that up separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u184	Then two gentlemen come to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u185	Two at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u186	First of all, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u187	Let's take a look; it might be one-sided. I understand very well that the Minister says that this affects him, but that this is very much the case with others who have much more sense of it. But of course Mr Wiersma's concern is understandable. Could we not agree that JenV's Secretary of State, in agreement with the Minister, will simply provide a response on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u188	Yeah, you can. So just send a written response based on Mr Wiersma's question and suggestions to your Chamber together with the ministry of JenV; yes. Well, again solved, in harmony and cooperation. In response to Mrs Maatoug, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Baarle's question on the ACVZ's opinion on asylum seekers and access to the labour market, I have just said something. I am now going to go into this a little bit more detail. It is now possible for asylum seekers who have been in proceedings for six months to work for 24 weeks a year. This gives the asylum seeker effective and effective access to the labour market in line with the Reception Directive, while awaiting a final decision in the Netherlands. In our view, this is not contrary to the directive. That is why the cabinet does not intend to ask for a legal opinion on this. The Council of State did not make any substantive comments on this in its opinion either. So we don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u189	I think you can keep going, because they're gonna stand a little bit. Then I'm not sure what they want. Oh, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u190	The reason why I liked Mr Van Weyenberg's proposal and would like to ask him to do so is in the footnote which indicates that it will then become complicated with WW rights. That is different from a legal argument about how to look at the directive. So I would like to have a legal judgment so that we can tighten up that argument, but also to see how other countries do it, because they will have the same problems. It is therefore partly legal and, through that footnote, it is partly also about WW rights. I think that has added value. I would therefore ask the Minister to do so. I think this also applies to D66 and DENK, but I'll leave that to them for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr Van Baarle agrees, I hear him say. We do not see any reason for this, but if the Chamber asks, for example, to ask the national attorney, it is of course free to do so. Then that's what we're gonna do. I'm doing it nicely. I'd also like to assure you that I'm asking. I'm in a very generous mood. I would like to ask, but we do not see any reason for this. The Council of State does not see any reason for this in its comments on the legislative proposal, but I hear a broad request for this. So we can ask for that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u192	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister is giving the legal test on Article 15 of that directive. But the second argument given by the government is indeed that of the WW rights. In the explanatory statement and in the note on the report, the government says two things about this that I cannot rhyme with. On the one hand, the government says that a complex situation arises if an asylum application is rejected, but there is still a WW benefit. On the other hand, the government says that the right to WW expires by definition if a person is no longer allowed to stay in the Netherlands. Does the government's argument that a problematic situation arises with regard to the WW if we extend access to the labour market at all? I see inconsistencies between these two expressions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u193	Yeah, if you're gonna put it together like that, I'm gonna have to think very hard about how this is linked. I think the WW is very simple: if you are not in the Netherlands and cannot meet your job application obligation and that kind of thing, you also have no right to WW. The other point is, of course, that if you have built up WW rights and have thereby strengthened the link with the Netherlands, you have other arguments in the asylum procedure. I think these are the two elements of this discussion. That is why this Chamber has traditionally held different views on the possibility of working. In recent years, I have also explored the probability of asylum seekers with Mark Harbers, then Secretary of State for JenV: can you not leave more room for people who are more likely to have a right of residence? That is, of course, what is happening in practice. In my view, these are the two points of view in this debate. Both have now been mentioned in the note on the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u194	Yes, it is true that they are mentioned, but I am trying to check whether they are cutting wood, because I read that the government writes two things in the pieces. On the one hand, she writes that being entitled to WW is problematic, but on the other hand the government indicates that this right to WW for someone who is no longer allowed to be in the Netherlands does not play anymore. Then that whole argument doesn't apply, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u195	I think the truth is right in the middle. In fact, it is true: if you are not in the Netherlands and cannot comply with the application requirement, then the WW benefit can be terminated. In this sense, Mr Van Baarle is right and that is no longer an argument. But, for example, in the case of an application for asylum, it can also be used as an argument to say that a link has been established with the Netherlands. That is the other argument mentioned in the note on the basis of the report. Both are true, of course. We know that from the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u196	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u197	Finally, Mr President. Well, at least we've got one argument peeled off. In practice, that is a lot more nuanced. The WW rights sec don't actually play. I wonder how likely it is that the judge can object that someone then has a greater connection with the Netherlands. Considering the importance that we attach to the fact that refugees are here early in the procedure, even before there is a conclusion... We may differ on how to organise the right of asylum, but I think we all agree that it is very important that refugees can simply do with it early.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u198	This debate is not about asylum status holders nor about the right of residence. I myself very much agree with the direction Mr Van Baarle is pointing. In fact, that's the lead in my new Integration Act. Under the new law, it is assumed that an asylum holder will learn the language as soon as possible and participate in the labour market as soon as possible when he receives a status in the Netherlands. I am convinced that working and learning language go hand in hand and that this is ultimately very good for integration and very good for the economic independence of asylum-seekers or, later, the status-holders. In the past period, there has also been a discussion between the various political parties in your Chamber about how long you want to offer the opportunity to work at a stage before that, the phase in which people are in the azc. In doing so, you could distinguish between asylum status holders who are likely to stay in the Netherlands and groups of people with whom you would know beforehand that the request for asylum is being rejected. We did that reconnaissance. In practice, the COA and the IND also provide a practical explanation for this. But that is a different discussion than the one on asylum status. That's not what this is about, and that's not what I'm about. That's what JenV's Secretary of State is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u199	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u200	Then the point of posting third-country nationals. I have expressed my concerns about this phenomenon in Brussels over the past period, namely that third-country nationals are temporarily posted from one Member State to another on the basis of free movement. The example of Ukraine and Poland has been mentioned. Moreover, I have also had very extensive discussions with, for example, the Polish Ambassador on what it means for other issues such as housing, but that aside. In itself, this is a legal construction according to the European Court of Justice, but I am concerned that this will reduce our control over migration from third countries, but also because it concerns workers with a vulnerable position. They are often more vulnerable when it comes to working conditions and living conditions. There are indeed examples of this in the transport sector. In Brussels, I also called for a study to be carried out on the posting of third-country nationals in the EU in order to get a better picture of the phenomenon and that study is currently being carried out. At the request of the Netherlands, Council conclusions on the rights of seasonal workers and other mobile workers were adopted by the Council in Brussels last October. It contains passages on the free movement of services, third-country nationals and equal treatment. Unfortunately, the space to regulate the phenomenon is limited. It's legally very vulnerable. That was also the conclusion of the Council of State on the information published at the request of your Chamber on the regulation of the free movement of persons and services. However, I intend to engage in discussions with other Member States that are also confronted with this phenomenon in the near future and to work together to see if we can do something at European level, for example through the ELISA, the European Labour Market Authority which is being set up and is now building capacity. Inspections that can work together could help to remedy this, especially when it comes to exploitation, indecent living conditions and poor labour market position. Strictly speaking, this phenomenon is not about this law, but I agree with almost everyone who has asked this question that this needs our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u201	Thank you for your answer. Indeed, it is not directly about this law. The Minister will explain how much concern there is about this. We have seen that, for example, when it comes to bogus structures withzzp'ers, there is also a development at European level as regards how they are viewed, because there are increasing problems in more and more countries. In what period could the Minister, in a letter, outline the progress of the processes he is working on in Europe, so that we can have a debate on them at a later date to see whether things are going well enough or whether we can put more pressure on them as Chambers by way of motion or other statements if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u202	I understand this question. If you don't mind, I'm going to check in a moment when that investigation I asked for has been completed in Europe. Then I can inform you about this and then it is a good time to talk about it. But that's another department that's not in the building right now. So we need to establish a link with the department. A lot of questions have been asked about Asian restaurants, and I understand that. I believe that the direction and comments of the Chamber are consistent. In recent years, there have been a number of motions in this Chamber about the fact that there really was a deficit that had to be resolved. We also made a separate arrangement. At the same time, we also see articles in Investico, Trouw and De Groene Amsterdammer in which abuses occur among foreigners who live in the Netherlands on the basis of this arrangement. I would also like to draw attention to the letter I sent two weeks ago, from the Dutch representations and the Immigration Liaison Officers in China, that signals have been received about improper use. To make a long story short: we are in consultation with the sector to see if we can recognize the signals, what could be done about them and how these abuses could be prevented. We have suspended the scheme for the time being for new applications. The existing licences are simply honored, because that of course belongs to a reliable government. In the meantime, we are examining whether the scheme can be revived in a more stringent form or whether it will be definitively repealed if we cannot find a solution to this problem. I hear from your input that you support that line. I shall now go first in consultation with the sector to see if we can find a solution. I would like to respond to Mr Van Weyenberg. About 90% of the cooks who come to the Netherlands are Chinese nationals. So that is the vast majority of the people who make use of this scheme. So it's about Asian cuisine, but in practice it's about the Chinese chefs in 90% of cases. The signals from Trouw and De Groene Amsterdammer are also about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u203	My question was whether the signals of wrongdoing came from countries other than China. Has the agreement been maintained for this limited group of other countries? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u204	I haven't heard those signals from other countries. They are genuine signals from China itself, but that is also the vast majority of applications. I will also take a moment in my discussions over the coming period to see if that could be a variant. This does not solve the problem, because the main problem lies in the shortages of Asian chefs in particular. Mr Wiersma asked: what is the Minister's view of this process? Conversations are already taking place at the moment. Talks have already taken place last week. The sector has indicated that they want to make an effort to address the serious signals that have emerged. I hope that we will soon be able to tell your Chamber, in discussions with the sector, whether the scheme can be revived in a strengthened version. I will therefore take with me what measures we are considering to prevent this. The final theme is the enforcement of abuses. I have already said a lot about this in my introduction, so I can do this relatively briefly. The amendments now before us therefore contain two proposals which improve the position of workers, namely the grounds for refusal if there is no economic activity and the periodic non-transferable payment. I think that's wise. That is indeed the case, I say in the direction of Mr Heerma, with regard to the Wav's employment permit. That's a small part, because in the WAS, the Law approach fakes constructions, it is of course more generic, but up to the minimum wage. These are therefore minor improvements to the position of workers, which have an additional effect on improving the design of supervision. The Inspection SZW is therefore better maintained. It has a role to play in enforcing the Wav's labour laws. We have, of course, allocated EUR 50 million in the coalition agreement for additional capacity at the SZW Inspection for more control, particularly on the issue of fair work. Out of my mind, 35 or 40 million out of 50 million have gone to the theme of fair work. This will also help to maintain the abuses in this small group. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked about the concerns of the FNV that there are all kinds of abuses with EU labour migrants and that the bill facilitates third-country nationals' access. As I said in my introduction, the cabinet feels very urgent to tackle the problem of migrant workers from the European Union in the Netherlands. We are working hard to implement the Roemer Committee's recommendation or to prepare it for formation. So we immediately started working on the recommendations. Some of the recommendations may also be of interest to third-country nationals, which is the subject of this law. That's included, as it were. Mr Van Baarle asked: how is there a practical assessment of the existence of suitable housing? Is there a definition of "suitable housing"? The employer is responsible for the appropriate accommodation of a foreigner. An employment permit may be refused if the employer does not provide suitable accommodation for the migrant employed. At the time of application, the employer must declare that he is going to house the foreigner safely and hygienically at an address permitted for residence. That's part of the terms. This assessment shall be carried out by the UWV on the basis of the information provided in the application by the employer applying for the employment permit. For example, when it comes to a large number of applications at the same time, the employer will have to ask the municipality for an opinion on accommodation availability, safety and hygiene. The UWV can also ask the municipality for such a judgment. This is an attempt to overcome this point in the system. Mr De Graaf had another question about people buying passports, for example in Malta, and thus being able to travel freely within the European Union. That has been discussed with your room on a regular basis. The concern has also been expressed about the so-called sale of passports by Malta and Cyprus. That is a right point of attention. The Netherlands, as well as the European Commission, have shared their concerns with Cyprus and Malta. The Commission has also expressed its intention to initiate infringement proceedings in this area. By the end of 2020, Cyprus indicated that it had stopped selling passports. Malta has strengthened the regime. But this is, of course, about a passport, about being a resident of a country and being able to travel freely. The problems that are mostly related to the posting, to which Mr Heerma asked for, for example, are about people who have been granted an employment permit in another EU country and can thus continue to travel, for example, to the Netherlands. So that is really a different system, but the concerns are justified and addressed. I think I saw one amendment. Are there two amendments tabled by Mr Wiersma? Yes. One is about the language, the other is about the recruitment efforts. I think Mr Wiersma's amendment on language is a complicated one to deal with in this legislative proposal. Because this bill is not about, for example, integration or getting a stronger right of residence. It's about a temporary employment permit. I think it is important for people to be able to shop and learn the language. So I do understand Mr Wiersma's request to give the employer a role in learning the language. But I do not think that an amendment to this bill is the right instrument to regulate it. There are other initiatives that are already underway, such as Tel along with Language and consultation with employers for which subsidy is also available. But putting this into an amendment would be unwise to me. So that's why I wouldn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u205	It is the amendment in part No. 8. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u206	Allow me to say something about the previous amendment, because I have one more amendment. The Minister made a comment on the text in the explanatory statement. That text has now been amended at the time that Minister made that remark. So that was a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u207	Now no. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u208	Exactly. This is about language. The minister says he doesn't know if this is the right place. There have, of course, been calls before in the Chamber and also motions on whether we can see, including employers, what we could do with language. With these kinds of things as we now include in such an amendment, the employer also offers training in the Dutch language, relatively well formulated, so that it can also refer to Tel along with Taal; you can go different ways with that. I think this can be made easy. Then why is that already an obstacle here, according to the Minister? Because it is in line with previous appeals from the Chamber, of which I have seen too little imitation. So this is also a way for the Minister to follow that up. I would ask him to look at this again in this capacity and, if necessary, to respond in a letter to the Chamber to where he sees these points of departure. In my view, it is an amendment that has been called for earlier in the Chamber with different motions. I believe that this relatively broad-based proposal should be possible here. I am, of course, always willing if that is really not possible to listen to, but then I need some more information, perhaps more than the Minister can give. Then I would ask him to perhaps send me some more information by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u209	A few things. A motion was previously adopted a few years ago, I believe Mr Segers and Mr Heerma, in which employers are widely called upon to encourage migrant workers to learn the Dutch language. We've been following up on that. We have also made agreements on this, and we have made funds available for this. So I share that point. There is therefore no difference of opinion. The second point, a legal anchor in the Wav, the Law laboring foreigners. Apart from the fact that this may also have all kinds of perverse incentives, which would allow you to say "I will do so in the short term, because then I do not have that obligation," I think we should not want to do so with each other. I do not think it is legally the right way to regulate this by law either. How nice, Mr. Deputy Chairman, to have you come in here. That is my second point, which is more of a legal argument why I should like to discourage this amendment. The third point is that this is, or in fact, that the first point would be superfluous. I find something else as to whether enough is being done in practice. I agree with Mr Wiersma. But I would almost like to take that up with the employers' organisations, especially in those sectors where this is a very common one. But to choose an amendment to that effect, I do not think it is the right instrument. That is why I would advise against this amendment, but I can assure you that I will come back to it later in a letter or in a report on how things stand and what is now happening in practice in order to better regulate this in the Netherlands. If you want to accept that commitment, I am willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u210	That is a commitment which, of course, the Chamber is happy to accept, I think, so that is only good. But that does not immediately remove the amendment. I understand the Minister's going to have a conversation about that. But if you wanted to anchor this in policy, how would you do that, other than in this law? Where would the Minister see that? Does he have a suggestion for where we should be looking for this, regardless of whether you think it's politically desirable or whether you're anchoring it in the law? I understand, but I'm just looking for the technical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u211	I am now digging very hard into my memory, because it has been a year or two since we had this debate here. We cannot impose a language obligation on people who have free movement within the European Union. That's what we've been working on, even at the request of your Chamber and the Council of State. I thought Jasper van Dijk had an initiative proposal for that. So that's legally impossible. It applies to the obligation to enter, but it is about the question: can you stay in the Netherlands with a stronger right of residence? If you will allow me, I would like to highlight the commitment and I will indicate how we could do that. Then I will come back to that later, because I would like to think about how you could stimulate this more. But I don't find the right method to lay down a law. Mr Heerma is now looking very worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u212	Yeah, he looks really worried. Have you been doing that all day?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u213	I think he agrees with me. Since Mr Bosma is chairman, Mr Heerma has been looking worried. I don't know if there's a connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u214	I hope so, because I actually want to throw a little turbo on it. 'Cause it only takes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u215	That is appropriate, Mr President, because I have the last amendment here. Mr Wiersma indicated that he has adapted this, but I have not seen the latest version. I thought it was a misunderstanding, but Mr Wiersma is shaking 'no' now, so I have to look at the final text first and give an opinion on it. What was said about the recruitment efforts, I find the responsibility of the UWV. We need to give the professionals the room to deliver customization. I wouldn't think it wise to interfere with that. If it's any different now, I'm gonna take a look at that. I do not have an opinion on that amendment at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u216	We'll get that version from you, will we, Mr. Wiersma? Oh, it's already there and it's already been distributed. Very good. Is the Minister ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u217	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u218	Very good. Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's not mandatory. Mr. Wiersma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mr President, thank you. We started this debate with a number of compliments and with the welcome of the people in the public gallery. You haven't been there. There was just another "last man standing," but even he's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u220	So it wasn't really interesting so far. Is that my conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u221	I don't know. We did something. We got something done, but I don't know if that's by definition a good thing. Nevertheless, thanks to the Minister for his reply. It's a law that you can look at in different ways: are it big or small changes? Are there any points of principle or not? My group will study the Minister's answers to these questions. I welcome the commitment to include some of these exceptions in UWV's annual report. We are looking for a way to keep those exceptions in the Chamber under review. The point is, at least you know what's going on. At the moment when these exceptions are expanding, the grip of the Chamber on them also disappears. I'm looking for a way to improve that. So thank you for that commitment. About espionage and abuse of knowledge, the Minister says: "Those checks are partly there, but I also acknowledge that there is a major problem. This is also widely recognised, but it is not entirely with me." I get that. I welcome the letter from the Minister and his colleague from JenV. At the same time, I do not think that we can wait a year for the recognised referees to be identified as reliable. To this day, the examples I mentioned, like Confucius, are on that list. I would hope that we will go through that list again specifically. My question is to include that in the response. Finally, on those numbers in third countries. I wonder if the Minister could give us a little more context. He says: I have an investigation going on in Europe. Can the Minister outline these numbers in a trend manner? What is it about now and do we have a picture? Has it indeed increased in recent years? If so, how much does it increase by sending here? I'm looking for where we could take this with a good and fast movement. I note that it is always a good thing that we ask employers to make agreements about it, but it is precisely where it is needed that may be most complicated. Then this bill is a way for us to say: if you want to rely on a knowledge-based immigrant for a long time to commit to it, then that also requires the employer's commitment to offer something. That's not a duty. It's not a language requirement. It's just a statement that you have a little more to do than just offer someone a job. It also includes that the context in which you do that work, including the language, requires an effort. Thank you again for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u222	Thank you. That's great. Then we will listen to Mrs Maatoug from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u223	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We have entered this debate very openly. We had a lot of questions. Many of the questions have also been answered. So this was very clarifying. We still have questions about the duration. We're about to get the answers in second term. They are important to us in order to be able to make a final assessment of this law. That advisory committee is also very important to us. The aim is to clarify, even in the future, situations of labour market shortages that we cannot yet see. Mr Van Weyenberg will also table a motion on my behalf. My group is also very pleased with the commitment to the country's lawyer to have the legal analysis sharp so that we can continue the debate you had with Mr Van Baarle. Finally, I note that I think we all have a lot of work to do. It's about the labour market. Mr Roemer's report has been mentioned a few times. I was also very happy to hear that the Ministry is already working hard to prepare the legislation. On this subject, I would like to echo Mrs Simons' words and Mr Van Dijk's discomfort, namely that we begin by saying that there are very big things going on that we want to talk about. We have declared them controversial ourselves, but I do think it is important to have that debate and to take steps in it. I look forward to it. I think we should also make an improvement for the people in the gallery, so that we can make these debates a little more attractive. I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u224	With a dance, the minister suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u225	I take that suggestion to the group, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u226	It's under consideration. A dance by the Minister is even said here. I call Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If there had been anyone else in the gallery, this would have been the end of it. I agree with the call for the implementation of the Roemer Committee. Controversially explained, but the big elephant in the room when it comes to the wider debate on labour migration and the abuses in that area within Europe. The Minister has clarified a lot. We keep looking for ways to adjust the underlying regulations every two years that state that it is up to two years, or where you still have more differentiation and the legal space of three years. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in a number of specific sectors the deficits are so large that labour migration can provide a solution;]] [[Whereas, in view of the diversity of interests, cooperation between employers, government and trade unions is necessary in order to determine the sectors in which professionals are required, by when and for how long;]] [[Whereas the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs (ACVZ) has been advising for some time to set up a broad advisory committee that can advise on what deficit professions and sectors of labour migration could offer a solution;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the role a broad advisory committee can play in identifying sectors and occupations where shortages occur and migrant workers are needed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35680-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u228	I think it would be a good idea for that committee to look a little further forward. So not only for the present, but also for the future and in the light of, for example, the development of the Dijkhoff motion. Finally, I welcome the commitment on how we deal with people with asylum status, a reception directive. It is a good thing that that is clear. Then we can go political about it again, but first let's check the facts. I always think that's a good starting point. I also look forward to the Minister talking to Asian restaurants and asking whether differentiation can be part of the solution. Above all, I hope that we will tackle abuses and that the good ones will not have to suffer for long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u229	Thank you. Then there is Mr Van Baarle of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u230	Thank you, Mr President. May I thank the Minister for his first-term response? Can I also thank the fellow speakers for what I think was a nice and productive debate? First of all, when it comes to the overall assessment of the bill, I feel that I am going to advise my group to vote in favour. But that is what the group is about, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u231	The minister's gonna bet the wave right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u232	I understand, I understand: it is three more votes in favour. Then there is the issue of evaluation. The Minister has promised to return in the second term to the question of exactly how we are going to organise the evaluation of the legislative proposal. But if he comes back to that later, I will not be able to table a motion, and I would have to table an amendment. So I'm going to file a motion after all. If the Minister makes a good commitment or gives the motion judgment Chamber, we are, of course, entirely happy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to forward to the House of Representatives, within five years of the entry into force of the proposed amendment to the Foreign Labour Act, an evaluation of the proposed amendment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35680-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u233	Mr. Chairman. We have also talked extensively about the position of refugees on the labour market. At present, the working hours of refugees are limited to 24 weeks. Now I have just looked at the 2008 decision on which it is based. It states that the UWV maintains a reference requirement of 26 weeks. The argument is that a WW benefit is problematic in two ways: a have the right to be more nuanced and b to demonstrate a link with the Netherlands. But that would mean that we could already expand on those 24 weeks at all. I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ACVZ indicates that the reduction of working time for refugees may be contrary to Union law and is detrimental to the chances of refugees;]] [[believes that early access to the labour market is good for integrating refugees into society;]] [[noting that the UWV is based on a reference from the WW of 26 weeks and that the current scheme limits working time to 24 weeks;]] [[calls on the Government to extend to 26 weeks the reduction of working hours for refugees in the BUWav to improve the situation of refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35680-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u234	Mr President, a final point on abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u235	Mr Van Weyenberg on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u236	I find one point in this motion complicated, I say honestly. On the content there is sympathy, but we have just asked one-sidedly to let the national attorney first find out exactly what is going on. I understand the political approach very well, but wouldn't it be wise to wait until we vote on this motion? I mean, I think that's relevant. That's what I'm saying in all honesty. Mr Van Baarle also asked for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u237	I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's question very well, but I believe that the commitment to have the national attorney look at this issue specifically about whether we comply with Union law. A second question is how many weeks of working time we can allow within the margins. And I address that question in this motion. So the limit appears to be 26 weeks. Regardless of the greater discussion about whether a provision is correct in time, given that Union law, we can already do more in the existing situation. And in view of the fact that I want refugees to be able to contribute here and work better in society, I would like to take that step now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u238	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u239	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about abuses. It was just called the elephant in the room. We need to work vigorously to tackle abuses involving migrant workers. As far as housing is concerned, I did not find the answer specific enough. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many abuses relating to the housing of migrant workers;]] [[Whereas Article 9 of the Labour Law states that foreign nationals are refused an employment permit if there is no adequate accommodation;]] [[Whereas, in practice, this amounts to checking safety and hygiene on the basis of a statement;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether a specification or tightening of the housing condition in the Wav through the Wav can contribute to combating abuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35680-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u241	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Pieter Heerma of the group of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u242	I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply and also for the explanations he has given on the uncertainties which, according to the first term, were here in the Chamber. An important element of the explanatory memorandum to this bill, but also of the debate in the Chamber, is the question of whether this bill contributes to the re-use of the main route rather than the invention of new agreements and new routes, often under pressure from the Chamber, because the main route is too tight. I've been walking with you for a while, and that's why my gray cells started spinning. I was reminded of the Asian chefs and the wok chord. This agreement has come under pressure from the Chamber, including from the VVD Group. Erik Ziegs was invited in 2015 as guest of honor at the year of the sheep for his contribution to the side route that arises. So if you do not want it to go this way, improving the main route and giving more room in it will not lead to more labour migration, but to better working rules, less administrative burdens and fewer escape routes forced by the Chamber. That is why I am not directly in favour of the amendment tabled by the VVD in this area. I welcome the Minister's commitment on the other side of the VVD. It's about corporate espionage. I think it is very good if Justice and Security are not just looking at this together with SZW, because it affects both policy areas. I think it would also be good if a letter were to be sent in the near future on how to combat corporate espionage. With regard to the motion from D66 and GroenLinks, I still have doubts, but this also has to do with the Minister's reply that we still have to get in second place. I think it should be looked at in a sectoral way, but on the basis of the answer given by the Minister, you could also say that this is already happening and that the motion may be superfluous. But for that, I am going to listen carefully to what the Minister says about this. With regard to the VVD's language amendment, I have a dilemma. The Minister already referred to an earlier motion that I tabled together with Mr Segers. This is a direction I am in favour of, but to put in a legislative proposal at the very last moment, without any change in the written round, an amendment that, if we adopt it, we are not sure what its effects can be... We have recently seen that this can lead to different problems. I am not opposed to the substance of this, but I will have to think as carefully before the vote whether I can suddenly vote for such an amendment at the last minute in this law. I just don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u243	To be continued. Today's cliff hanger. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Simons from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions I would like to share with the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Article 1 of our Constitution provides that all who are in the Netherlands shall be treated equally;]] [[Whereas in the Netherlands there is exploitation of migrant workers in such a way that the fundamental right to equal treatment is not currently guaranteed;]] [[points out that the government has a responsibility to continue its efforts to improve the position of migrant workers and to align their rights with those of workers of Dutch nationality;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a comprehensive plan to strengthen the SZW Inspection to combat the exploitation of labour migration effectively and more effectively, and to inform the Chamber about this before Princess Day 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the merging of the roles of employer and landlord is undesirable, as this in practice contributes to exploitation and a high dependence of employees on their employer;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a ban on the merging of the roles of employer and landlord and to include the recommendations of the Roemer Committee on Housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35680-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35680-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u246	Thank you. That is the deadline of the Chamber. The Minister has asked for ten minutes. I understand that, but we also have votes back here. So let's go, but if it can be shorter and there's white smoke sooner, please. "I have reflection to do," I hear the Minister now say. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u247	The Minister has the floor, but first I will give the floor to Mr Wiersma. We're gonna have a little order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u248	Mr President, I can think of all the fine words for it, but I just forgot to table my motion, a motion that is important to my group. Sorry about that. I would like to ask my colleagues if they would still give me the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u249	The word you're looking for is "senior problem." But when Mr Plasterk spoke that word here in this Chamber, he got his failure from President Verbeet, because he was not allowed to use that word. So I won't. So let us have a little debate on the order of business here. Does anyone object to us doing a third term after the Minister's second term? That is not the case. I now hear from the Minister that he has no objection to it either. Did I ask you that, Minister? We are in charge of our own order; I must be strict. So we're gonna do a third term later. Then Mr Wiersma comes with a motion and I would also like to hear from the Minister what his opinion is on that motion. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are a few points I would like to come back to, and I would also like to say something about my reflection in the last five minutes. First of all, I come to Mr Heerma's point of order. The results of the study are expected in 2022. As soon as they are available, I will inform the Chamber about that point of transit. It is always on the agenda in Europe too, so I will give you the state of play on the next annotated agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u251	I don't know when it's on that agenda. I would ask that we have an overview of progress on this issue by this autumn at the latest, prior to the discussion of the Social Affairs budget, so that we can at least take this into account in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u252	Yeah, I agree. I hope that the people of the department will write along now and that it will be noted. In my opinion, where is the confusion over the labour market situation in the first period: cyclical, sectoral and the scheme? I'm gonna try to pull it apart. We now have the main rule from one to three years. We have a period of two years in the BUWav, in the underlying laws and regulations for the situations where there is a full labour market test. If the licence expires after two years, the employer may apply for a new licence or an extension. By definition, it is then automatically assessed against the labour market situation in force. Are there generic deficits? What is the economic situation? What is the sectoral situation? That's what the UWV standard does. The periodic review of these deadlines has now been carried out. That's what the confusion was about for me. So I'd like to make a proposal to your Chamber. Because in that lower regulation, in the BUWav, of course, there is now just a two-year period. Three requests have been made. The first is the request for an external committee to give an opinion on whether to further differentiate between sectors or the economic situation. The second discussion was an evaluation. Mr Van Baarle and Mr Wiersma asked about this. The third discussion is actually about when to think about whether the two years in the BuWav are still the right period. If I take all this together in one proposal, a super-proposal, then I am not doing an evaluation after five years, but after three years, and we are also asking a committee to see if those deadlines in the BUWav are still good. So you de facto do an evaluation of the law and the buwav. With that change from five to three years, I shall then give Mr Van Baarle's motion to the Chamber. Then we've got a trial going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u253	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u254	Mr Heerma is making a gesture with which I believe we have solved this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u255	Then we must also get Mr Van Baarle along with us, because I think that is the weakest link.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u256	I'm meeting him with an evaluation two years earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u257	But first, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u258	Let me clarify a question about this super-proposal. Our request was that you not only evaluate, but also look forward, because things are constantly changing. That's part of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u259	Yes. Because you actually need to have a feeling about the developments in the labour market, but perhaps also about the cyclical and sectoral differences. Mr Van Baarle, I think, very much agrees with my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u260	I could never have sworn that that super-proposal would fall or stand with this motion. But a good proposal from the Minister. I would like to change 'within five years of entry into force' to 'within three years of entry into force'. I think we can do that verbally with the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u261	Yes, and with that judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u262	Mr. Van Baarle, what motion is that? You filed two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u263	The motion in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u264	The motion in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u265	Within five years, three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u266	Then we will receive a new version from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u267	The Van Baarle motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to forward an evaluation of the amendment proposal to the Lower House of States General within three years of the entry into force of the proposed amendment to the Foreign Labour Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She's getting No. , was No. 11 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u268	The motion in part No. 10 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Maatoug. It calls on the government to explore the role a broad advisory committee can play in identifying sectors and occupations where shortages occur and migrant workers are needed. Actually, I've already said something about that. One thing I would like to say about this: the broader advisory committee that the ACVZ advises is, of course, about a broader issue, such as legal migration and asylum status holders. It is therefore wider than just this bill and wider than the evaluation I have just promised. Having said that, the aim of the Foreign Labour Act is to align labour migration with the specific needs of the labour market. Let's see, judge Room. But with these comments in mind. We are now pretending that this is the correct interpretation of the economic and sectoral situation, but that is not the case. I have just made a broader commitment to this in the review of the law and the BUWav.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u269	Just for the advice of my group. At first, the minister was rather reluctant about points concerning JenV. Here, perhaps, there are broader points that may also be included in JenV. Do I see that correctly, and does it have a broader effect than labour migration? Wouldn't it be good to see if it works on that side? Because the ACVZ is basically an advisory body to JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u270	I have interpreted it in such a way that it concerns sectors and occupations where migrant workers are employed. It is indeed about the Wav, the employment permits, but also about the discussion about the EU labour migrants. That is why I make this distinction: it is not just about the discussion on legal labour migration. That's not what it says in the operative part of the motion. It says: advise on which deficit professions and sectors labour migration could offer a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u271	To avoid misunderstandings: I love to have big discussions about legal migration routes, only this motion is about labour migration, that is what it is about, about deficits, where they are sitting and where we see them arise and where labour migration can play a role from that point of view. For the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u272	I therefore believe that Mr Wiersma is reassured. Then as a person, as Minister of SZW, I can simply pledge to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u273	It may be a little faster, Mr Minister, because we will have to go on to roll-call votes and we will have a third deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u274	The motion in part No. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade 12 of them. The motion in part No. 13, on the condition of housing, I should also like to advise against the argument that this is actually part of the opinions of the Roemer Committee. We're just working this out. That's why I want to dissuade her. Then the motion to part No. 14 by Mrs Simons. We have already invested heavily in the Inspection SZW in the last period, for 50 million. That has almost doubled capacity. It's still being built up. It's not up to me as a missionary minister to make a plan for the Princess Day budget. That's really up to your Chamber and the forming parties. Against that background, I advise against this motion. The last motion by Mrs Simons, which was tabled in part No. 15, asks for a ban to prepare for the fusion of the roles of employer and landlord. We have had this discussion with the recommendations of the Roemer Committee. In doing so, I indicated that I do not think a ban is sensible, but that I think it is wise to work out variants. Against this background, I therefore consider the motion to be partly superfluous and partly unwise. That's how I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u275	Clear, thank you very much. Mr Van Baarle, on a point-by-point basis, because I really want to go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u276	In short, the question in the direction of the Minister is whether he could argue against my motions a little less short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u277	At the motion in part No. 13 I have argued that it is part of Roemer. The motion in part No. 12 does not fit in with this debate. I really think that this is a discussion with the Secretary of State for JenV, because it concerns asylum status holders and the opportunities for work in the asylum centre. That's not what this law is about either. Against that background, I dissuade her, but for the sake of short, I said "dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u278	That sounds pretty clear to me. Shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u279	Well, Mr. Chairman, briefly... First of all, could it not be a way for the Minister to ask for a letter from the Secretary of State and consult on this motion, if necessary, and then come up with an appreciation? Because I think it's just possible and the direction is a no-brainer. On the second point: that is not, of course, in the Roemer Committee; it is legislation that we already have. I think that direction is also something we say: we have to do so by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u280	I just promised the first part of the motion. That's what Mr Van Weyenberg just said. That's what I'm going to do as a commitment in your direction. So that's what we're gonna ask for advice on. About the rest: there has been a lot of debate over the past period about working in the asylum-seekers' centre. That was on another committee, the one for JenV. It doesn't fit this law. That's why I advise against this law. The first part I'm going to do; I've already said that. The second part I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u281	Clear. May we have the motion in part No. 15 more minutes to hear from you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u282	I told you, it's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u283	Okay, very good. Thank you for all your comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u284	In response to my motion, the Minister says: on the one hand, it is superfluous, and on the other hand, I think it is unwise. In my view, the superfluousness is based on the fact that this has been taken into account in the recommendations of the Roemer Committee. We know that the Chamber of Parliament has adopted a motion to make that part of the coalition agreement, while the Minister has just said: that is good for the negotiating table during the formation. I think that's two different things. And I am very curious what is unwise about disconnecting employership and landlordship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u285	I was a little confused because we discussed this extensively in the debate on the Roemer Committee. I understand the dependence of a tenant on the agency. I don't think that's desirable. This is also in line with the recommendations of the Roemer Committee. We are working out variants to hit the formation table there for the next coalition agreement. I therefore think that this part is superfluous, because I have already promised, in response to Mr Van Weyenberg's motion, to work on these things. The second part of the motion is 'calls on the government to prepare a ban'. I think that a ban is unwise, and that is what we talked about in that debate, because, especially in the current housing market with large deficits, I find it also the responsibility of a temporary agency or an employer in agriculture and horticulture or the meat sector to provide housing. If you introduce that ban, you run the risk that there will be no new initiatives to create housing. That's why I think that's unwise. Those were the two arguments which were widely exchanged in the February debate. For the sake of clarity, I said: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u286	Are you ready, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u287	I do, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u288	Very good. Then we'll go to the third term. Yes, we don't often experience that, folks; a state-law unique on this week's Wednesday. I call Mr Wiersma. Sit down, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u289	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the colleagues. Mr Van Weyenberg was, of course, right: there was no one in the gallery just now and now. Also my neighbor of 7, who comes to take a look today, is now in the stands, with an orange cap. He's gonna give a talk about the House of Representatives. So it's nice that I can say that here. Mr President, thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that knowledge migrants through employers who are recognised referees quickly receive a visa and a work permit, and the IND generally considers that a statement from the employer is sufficient;]] [[noting that Investico's investigation shows that organisations are on the list of recognised referees accused of espionage, whose directors are on international penalty lists and whose directors have been convicted of criminal offences;]] [[noting that the same investigation shows that the knowledge migrants scheme is being abused in order to avoid the anti-money laundering checks in force on the investment visa;]] [[Considering that several experts warn of espionage and abuse within the knowledge migrants scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to take action to prevent abuse of work permits and recognised reference by threatening state actors, in future to examine whether the recognised reference should not be granted or terminated if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35680-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u290	This motion I can give Chamber in conjunction with the Ministry of JenV judgment. I had another amendment from Mr Wiersma, the text of which he has modified, but I still think the portrait of the amendment is unwise. I therefore also advise against Mr Wiersma's second amendment. I think that is the amendment to item No. 9, but maybe that's changed to another number now. For the sake of completeness, I would advise against that amendment. I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u291	That's great. Thank you for your conciseness. Thank you also to the Minister for his presence on this Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u292	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, the amendments and the motions. You're all very welcome to come by. I'm suspending until 2:45 p.m. Then we have roll-call votes.
