ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 24 and 25 June 2021. A warm word of welcome to the Prime Minister. Thank you for joining us. We have 14 speakers from the Chamber. That's a hell of a thing. But then, after Mr. Kuzu, we'll eat. We'll save the best for last. I am now quoting Mr Kuzu. I'm just quoting. The first speaker is Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP Group. He has six minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u2	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Let us once again talk about Europe, it was said. We haven't talked about that in so long. Mr. Chairman. There has recently been an objectionable law passed in Hungary. The law prohibits the display and promotion of homosexuality to minors. Schools that pay attention to homosexuality are fined. That is totally disgusting and contrary to all the values Europe stands for. We've also received a letter from the ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister if he's seen it, too. That letter speaks of "hysteria towards Hungary." The Prime Minister and the European Commission have expressed their indignation and that is good. The Prime Minister of Europe rightly spoke as a value community. The question is what will happen next, not just words. The Article 7 procedure is under way, but is likely to be blocked. Then the European Commission can go to the European Court of Justice. I ask the Prime Minister whether this is happening now and when he expects results. There is also the possibility for Member States to take action themselves and to refer Hungary to the Court. The Netherlands could do that to other Member States. This has not been possible on the occasion of a motion, but a new situation has arisen. So I ask the government to take this step. If nothing happens, Hungary, but also other countries, can go further and further with the erosion of that European value community. And we shouldn't have that. Mr. Chairman. There is a great deal of unrest at the borders of Europe and brutal violence in Croatia. There are pushbacks in Greece and again shady boats heading towards Italy. Last weekend I saw the film Shadow World, as part of the refugee's day. He deals with Syrian refugees who are brutally abused at the borders of Europe. It's nauseating what you see in this movie, called Shadow Game. How does the government view these practices? What do these Syrian refugees have to do to get asylum? They're on the run from war and violence, but they don't stand a chance of a proper procedure. What does Europe have to offer them? The need is high among the border countries, which is why Italy and Spain want to talk about the so-called Malta deal. It is about a rapid procedure on arrival and a fair distribution of refugees between Member States. Is the Dutch Government in favour of this? How's this going? The agenda also discusses partnerships with third countries. Can the Prime Minister give a detailed overview of progress by country and by stage? I would also like to receive a response to the letter from 38 refugee organisations to benevolent Member States to include vulnerable refugees from Greece. After all, it is European territory. Mr. Chairman. Then Frontex, the European Coast Guard. There are now three things that discredit Frontex. Firstly, there are the malpractices in the workplace, with the bizarre spending on parties. €100,000 was spent on a party in Warsaw, I read in the EU observer. Secondly, there are the pushbacks. Thirdly, there is the latest fact: Frontex also appears to be making a financial mess of it. If this cabinet does not want to intervene in relation to these pushbacks, then perhaps it is sensitive to the fact that the European Court of Auditors concludes that Frontex is financially inadequate. Will the Minister raise this issue at the euro summit? Mr. Chairman. What about the negotiations on a new Turkey declaration? I would like an update, as promised by Minister Kaag last week. And then shocking news from Turkey. People in the office of opposition party HDP have been attacked and shot. A party member, Deniz Poyraz, was killed in this. It's horrible news about probably a political murder. Is there going to be an independent investigation? To what extent is the Turkish Government responsible? If this government is going to condemn the murder and insist on independent investigation, I ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Corona. Slowly we see more and more relaxations. That's good news. We do have concerns about the way in which the COOVID-19 pass is introduced. This has been achieved without proper parliamentary treatment. We are therefore asking for a guarantee that the framework that has now been set up, including the trilogues, will apply no later than 12 months and will apply only to the COOVID-19 vaccination. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. It is a good thing that sanctions are being imposed against Belarus, but we must prevent the people from being affected. I'd like a commitment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u3	Thank you. Then Mrs Kamminga of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say, like Mr Van Dijk, that here we are again. Because only a few days ago we were here in front of the State of the Union. In addition, the various trade ministers discussed the various subjects on several occasions in the previous weeks. Nevertheless, it remains a fine tradition to stand here with each Council. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if there is a special heading on the Council's agenda with 'other questions from the Dutch Parliament'. I would like to say to Mr Dassen that he is here in the meantime: so you see, even without a flag in this Chamber, we have enough thought about Europe and we have to note that there is no EU elephant. However, let me start entirely in style with an issue that is not on the agenda either: the legislation adopted in Hungary that puts even more pressure on the position of lhbtq+. Mr Van Dijk referred to this too. The violation of fundamental European values and the restriction of freedom to be yourself is something we should not look away from. I am therefore pleased that the Chamber has today adopted a motion by a large majority on this issue. It is also a good thing that the Prime Minister indicated in the debate on Thursday that he did not really need the motion to express his disgust at these developments, including during the Council. Because the Union is more than just a market; it is also a value community. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to repeat the debate on Thursday, but I would also like to stress today that it gives an unsatisfactory feeling that Hungary and Poland can simply claim financial resources pending a ruling by the Court. I wonder, therefore, whether there are perhaps some more low-threshold options for retaining funds, as I understand it, even in projects in Poland when that country set up homo-free zones. Ergo, my call is to keep looking where there are opportunities and not to shrivel to use them. Then I'll get to the agenda. The vaccination passport has been widely discussed in both Brussels and The Hague over the past period. With the summer vacation on the doorstep, the vaccination programme that is on steam and a decrease in infection rates and hospitalizations, we can now think again about a holiday abroad. That's good news. An important step is the vaccination passport. For this passport the date of 1 July has always been mentioned. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if we are still on schedule and if there are any other countries that are not going to make it. With regard to the commitment to be able to demonstrate in a different way that you are not infected, I support the government's line. However, it is a pity that there is a waiting period after the last shot. Then I saw that there was also talk about evaluation and the lessons learned. That is always a good thing in itself and I am curious about the BNC-fiche with a more detailed explanation that will come soon. I hope that attention will also be paid to the impact on border regions. Especially there the differences between countries were painfully noticeable. As far as I am concerned, the purchase and development of vaccines is also a matter of attention. Finally, on this point, as you are used to my party, I would like to ask the cabinet to ensure that the adage 'never washed a good crisis', with apologies to Mrs van der Plas, that this was in English, extends to the extent that any additional measures from Brussels are at the expense of our national powers in this area. I hope the Prime Minister can confirm that. Migration. It is good that there is talk about migration, and certainly also about the external component. Because there is an important key, and that is where we should join forces. It is important to have an effective approach at EU level: an approach to ensure that people no longer make that dangerous crossing, to which Mr Van Dijk has already referred, and that ensures decent reception in the region. We now see that many people are arriving in Europe who are not entitled to asylum. That puts unnecessary pressure on the system. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the phrase 'with coordinated use of resources across the whole range of instruments' is being implemented. It may be me, but I'm not sure what this means. I can imagine that we are linking EU support to the extent to which countries are prepared to make agreements on this issue. If this is not the case, then here's the suggestion. But the most important thing I want to give the Cabinet is that it is urgent to take steps in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u5	I fully agree that there should be more structure and control in the current migratory flows, but I also mentioned in my term the brutal violence that is being used at the borders of Europe. The pushbacks, the violence of the Croatian border police: you really shouldn't underestimate that. According to the VVD, what should a Syrian war fugitive who in all respects meets the asylum requirements do to apply for asylum in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u6	As you know, I am not the VVD's asylum spokesperson, but I will nevertheless make an attempt. I think we have already discussed this in the previous debate. Then you asked my colleague, Mr Azmani, who, of course, is a great advocate of a good asylum policy at European level. There was also said... I think the cabinet has also repeated it. At least I saw it in the answer of the Secretary of State. We have, of course, been able to read about these violations, these alleged violations. It's being investigated now. That's really the first step, I think. We need to get a good look at what's going on. If there are violations of international law, the Commission has a role to play in addressing the country concerned. As far as I'm concerned, that's the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u7	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u8	But my question was: where should a Syrian war fugitive, a real asylum seeker, knock now when it comes to the VVD? 'Cause if he goes to Europe now, he's just gonna get hit back hard, with rough force. Do you agree that we need to find a way to make real war refugees eligible for asylum, preferably at the borders of Europe, with European asylum centres? Does the VVD like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u9	I think we just have international criteria for how things are going, for when you can apply for asylum. We also have this regulation within Europe. But I think it's always been clear. As a VVD, we have always stood for this: for us reception in the region is the central point. If people do come to Europe, you will catch them in the country where they arrive. That is why we have Dublin agreements. That should be the route. I think those steps are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u10	Yeah, clear. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next item is the recovery funds. I have heard the Minister of Finance say in the debate on Ecofin, if I am right, that we are going for a bold summer and that the figures are encouraging both in the Netherlands and throughout the EU. Let's hope so, because we could use some good news. Although the VVD, as you know, attaches great importance to sound public finances, it certainly also includes manageability of government debt, as the VVD understands the commitment to give more space in these circumstances. I assume this will be short-lived, because in the end we all know that you cannot build a healthy economy on a debt mountain. We can already see that the economies of countries with lower public debt seem to be rising faster. This shows once again the need for reforms, rather than merely providing additional resources. Can the Prime Minister say a little more about the force field in the Council on this point? As far as the recovery package is concerned, I am pleased that the Prime Minister, as well as the Minister of Finance, has confirmed that this was a one-off crisis measure. The VVD attaches a lot to that too. Furthermore, we support the cabinet in its efforts to argue for a proper assessment period. I also noticed that there are follow-up sessions planned in this Chamber. That's nice. In view of the time and the fact that we discussed Russia and Turkey in detail both on Thursday during the state of the Union and in the trade committees, I would like to repeat that we are concerned about developments in both countries. Where we see progress on parts of Turkey, albeit with small steps, that does not seem to be the case with Russia at all. The VVD has therefore supported Mr Sjoerdsma's motion to introduce targeted sanctions for the immediate circle around Putin and agrees with the cabinet commitment in the Council on this point. Finally, Belarus. I am glad that a sanction package is finally on the table. Could the Prime Minister reflect on this? Is he satisfied with the outcome? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u12	Thank you. A question from Mr Kuzu, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u13	Mrs Kamminga has spoken very clearly about Hungary, but I would like to know from her party what message our Prime Minister should travel to Brussels. What does she think should be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u14	Excuse me, chairman, about Hungary? Yes. I believe that last Thursday we discussed this in detail and gave some instructions for what we want to investigate. I have also said that, as far as I am concerned, we are talking to other countries to look at it and look for space. I hope to hear about this in the Prime Minister's first term. Isn't there room somewhere? I understand that the path, now that the Court has not yet ruled on anything to do with those RRF funds, is difficult. I find all kinds of things about that, but I would like to hear if there are any possibilities to do something extra, even if it is small. I think a symbol is in place. But I await the Prime Minister's answer to the questions that Mr Van Dijk has also asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u15	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u16	I am particularly interested in the position of the VVD Group, although at a later stage I am also interested in the Prime Minister's position. But I am mainly concerned with the VVD Group. You also received the letter from the Hungarian ambassador, which begins with: this is organized hysteria. Then where is room, according to the VVD Group, not according to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u17	I think what the VVD Group thinks is obvious. I have been very clear about this in my speech. We were under Mr Dassen's motion. We simply find this unacceptable. We also think that you should take a critical look at that. I do not think there is any misunderstanding about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u18	That's good. Mrs Kamminga has also been clear in the previous debate. She too, like D66, does not think that tax money to Mr Orban can take place like this. But then there's the question. The Prime Minister mentioned the last time that there may be a flash but that no fines should be paid. This may be true of speeding, but it is now clear that Hungary is not only driving too fast but also pushing other cars off the road. I would like to ask Mrs Kamminga if this changes the situation for her group and we should nevertheless establish the rule of law mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u19	I don't think it's gonna change. We heard the argument. I've also heard why that's difficult. I myself had in my speech the analogy of the flash pole last time and said that I found that unsatisfactory. I still think so. At the same time, I also find that if something cannot be done, it cannot be done. The Council needed another moment to make a weighting, which is why I believe you have also held your motion. I think it's nice to wait and see. If that proves insufficient, we will have another discussion on this, perhaps on the basis of a motion that you were already preparing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u20	We are indeed holding on to that motion, because it is just neat to give it a chance to take a good look at it. I just saw the statement by the Netherlands, Belgium, Lithuania and a number of other countries, which states that all possible means should be used to do something about this. The Prime Minister should correct me if I see that wrong, but at least the Prime Minister seems to prefer that this could be done. Could the VVD support it if that were to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u21	I think I just made the call to see what's possible. If there's anything we can do, we're very happy for it. I don't think there's any misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u22	I am trying to exercise restraint when it comes to the law that has been violated, which is being passed in Hungary. First of all, it is a domestic matter. What strikes me is that one sharp conviction plummets over the other. If you are serious about that law yourself, apart from the ambassador's letter, we have made a slight attempt to do so. No, it's a law aimed at protecting children. And then there is a stand against paedophilia and a stand against pornography, to protect children and to provide healthy sexual education. Then a position is taken against all too easily going along with gender change. You only have to follow the news that comes from Sweden and the United Kingdom to know how much misery that brings. Is it not in its place, I ask Mrs Kamminga, to deal with this a little more nuanced, rather than hammering it out: this is an anti-gay law and that needs to be dealt with very hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u23	I have a different interpretation and association to that law. But apart from that, there is a trend to be seen, a trend that is of course worrying. Mr Sjoerdsma also said that it is a bit stacked up: first this is not allowed, then it is not allowed. I do believe that it is a fundamental value, including within the EU, that you can be who you want to be, that you can come out of it, that there is also a decent lesson to be learned and that you know that it can and can be done. You can look at that differently. I therefore consider this law to be a matter of real concern in itself, but I also fully agree with what Mr Sjoerdsma said in his interruption: it is not something that stands on its own. We are seeing this trend in a number of countries, especially in Hungary and Poland, and I find that trend extremely worrying. I also think that we should speak out against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u24	Of course, everyone is free to do so, but I continue to advocate the right of the Member States based on European treaties and not on our further specification and implementation of those conventions and values. Then there is something that contains much more nuance than is shown in the frame. Is it not simply a question of law and fairness, including vis-à-vis those Member States, to do justice to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u25	I don't want to repeat it all, but you have to see this in a context, apart from the other weighting and interpretation I have of that law. For me, it falls into a trend that is so worrying that I think we should stand up to it and pronounce on it, no matter what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u26	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u27	Mr. Chairman. I, too, will begin with Hungary and the sad law that was passed there. I welcome the overwhelming majority of the House's support for the Dassen motion that we have signed as GroenLinks. I am also very pleased that the majority of the House has adopted the motion I tabled to review proposals for the Restoration and Ferry Fund and to look at the state of law. I'm also curious if there are any more options. I am also curious to see how many Member States are actually participating. I believe that we, as Europe, as Member States, and certainly as the Netherlands, should strongly oppose laws that are contrary to the value community we are. I find it problematic that UEFA is so opposed to initiatives to draw attention to this. I welcome the initiative of the Munich City Council to lighten their arena in a certain way. I don't know what UEFA has to say about that. I think that the government is actually placing a little too much sport outside politics. It can't always be. Last week we had a debate where Baku came by, one of the places where they play. A few kilometers away, Armenians are being held prisoner of war and treated very badly. We should be able to say something about that. We have talked a lot about the rule of law. I would also like to point out what happened yesterday: an appeal from all privacy authorities in Europe to ban all forms of facial recognition and biometric applications in the European Union very quickly. I hope the Prime Minister has registered that call and that he shares that call. Especially in view of the developments in Hungary and Poland, we must be extra vigilant and we must avoid taking initiatives in this area too that we do not want. I also share the criticism that others have already expressed on pushbacks from Frontex. I would also like to hear a more powerful and critical sound from the cabinet. Then there is the agenda of the European summit. The previous two speakers have already mentioned Belarus and the sanctions. There is a package, but all the ins and outs of it are not yet completely clear to me, also because the General Council still has to look into it, but we have been told that Austria was a bit obstructive, because it might affect the banking sector. I am not entirely clear on what has been decided. Can the Prime Minister explain that? In addition to the sanctions which are quite justified and which should also be aimed at the regime, we are also concerned, in the sense that we should be careful not to touch too much of the citizens. It is also important that we support the opposition, the journalists who are now most affected. We would like the Dutch government to make further efforts, whether through the embassy or not, to provide assistance wherever possible. What I am a little more critical about is that there does not seem to be any progress in Russia. There is one incident after another, but when it comes to imposing additional sanctions, we have also co-signed the Sjoerdsma motion, and there seems to be a degree of restraint in the Netherlands too, while we are, to a large extent, a facilitator of wrong money from people around Putin. On this point, too, my group would really like the Netherlands to take additional initiatives. We also talked about Nord Stream 2 last week. Here too, I think it is wrong to put that as a commercial project. It is not a purely commercial project. Moreover, it is not necessary from the gas supply point of view. There's already more than enough gas infrastructure. So here again the call to the Prime Minister: be more critical and use the means of pressure that we must use when it comes to Russia. Then I would also like to dwell on covid. It is good that there is light at the end of the tunnel and that at the end of this week we may be free of many measures. At the same time, we need to be very vigilant, especially on new variants such as the delta variant, which is now also emerging in Rotterdam, and possibly even newer variants where the vaccines are less resistant. Is there any certainty in the cabinet that the European approach is at present sufficiently alert to the sudden spread of new variants that are so strong that they can resist vaccines? Are we going to intervene quickly and in time, so that we don't end up in a longer lockdown again? I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he is satisfied or whether he feels that further steps are needed within the European Union. I also welcome the fact that we have voted today on a motion by Mr Piri, whom I believe we have also signed up for, on patents. The Chamber has now given a ruling on this matter. Is the government going to act on this immediately, even at the forthcoming European summit? And are we kept informed of the progress made in this respect? That too is an issue for the whole Chamber, or at least for a majority. I hope that further steps will also be taken there. I should like to leave it at that for the moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u28	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u29	Mr. Chairman. The anti-lhbti legislation in Hungary is terrible. It's un-European. Fortunately, the UEFA thinks the same thing; the same UEFA that started the European Championship with a campaign against racism and homophobia. Now that we have a point, the UEFA really does not feel the same way. An investigation must be carried out into the rainbow bracelet of Mr Neuer, the leader of the German team, and if Munich wants to light up the stadium in rainbow colors, Mr Van der Lee already said so, then the international football organisation is too small. I would say that Mr Bishop can shake hands with UEFA. Fortunately, Mr Rutte was clearer. He called the law "really unacceptable." And that is the way it is, of course, but now it is also: act by word, do not deploy funds to Hungary and the rule of law mechanism. On that last point, Mr Rutte says: I agreed in December that the Commission should be allowed to flash but not to issue a fine. I have just said to Mr Kamminga that this is of course annoying and uncomfortable, but it is also incomprehensible when you look at what happened between December and now. I'll just mention four things. I refer to Club radio, which was taken out of the air in February of this year after criticism of the government. That's just censoring the press. I mention the fact that universities and cultural institutions were brought under the authority of the State in April of this year. I refer to the Ihbti legislation. I would also like to mention that this weekend Mr Orbán advocated weakening the European Parliament. In December, Mr Rutte gave away something that was not his. Mr Rutte cannot give away the rule of law. I would ask him to do the following two things. One: at the Orbán European Summit, address the violation of European values with this new legislation. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the statement made just before the debate, which I will have to quote in English because I have only seen it in English, which states that all the tools at its disposal by Mr Rutte, of the European Commission, must be deployed to Hungary to do something about this. If it says 'all instruments', I see room for the rule of law mechanism there. I ask the Prime Minister whether I read that correctly or whether that is my own optimistic spirit. Mr. President, then Corona. First of all, I would like to compliment the cabinet on allowing free tests on a very short term. This is an explicit wish of the Chamber, which will make it easier for young people and families to spend their holidays, despite the fact that some of them have not yet been vaccinated. That's incredibly important. It prevents inequality. I also have a concern, and it's in the digital corona certificate that the cabinet says is ready on July 1st. That feels a bit like the cabinet says that the dress rehearsal will be held on the day of the premiere. I find that risky myself. It also entails risks, for example the technical connection between the European gateway and the national database, which has many software errors. When it's really done on 1 July in the Netherlands, the chances are low that people can already travel with an EU corona certificate on Saturday 3 July. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister to that risk. The same applies to the following point. Dutch people have been pricked abroad, who are not registered. There are people pricked by their general practitioner who are not registered. There are people who have only been pricked once because they've already had corona, who aren't registered either. How's that gonna be straightened out? How is it ensured that these people can travel with that digital certificate? Mr. Chairman. There is also a great deal of uncertainty about corona rules in Europe this summer, as the Council recommendations always talk about 'can'. Travel restrictions can also be lifted after the first of the two vaccines. Member States may require persons travelling from an orange or red area to hold a negative test certificate and children under 12 years of age should be exempt from the requirement to undergo a test. The open interpretation of the rules also leads to confusion. How can we prevent the Dutch from getting stuck at the French-Italian border on their way to Italy, for example, because each Member State has different requirements? I ask the Prime Minister how this can be better coordinated and also how we can inform people more clearly about all the different requirements and obligations per country, also because all these separate national rules show us that there is a bigger problem during this crisis: too often too few clear policies. Fly bans, testing policy and quarantine policy are simply less effective in the Schengen area if we organise them at national level. My question to the Prime Minister is how to prevent the delta variant from spreading throughout the European Union because, for example, countries like the Netherlands do not have a flight ban from India, as Germany does. Mr. Chairman. As far as migration is concerned, we are at an impasse. There is no effective migration policy because there is no consensus. No step is taken either, because the Netherlands does not want to belong to a leading group. I warn Mr Rutte that the clock is ticking. In my opinion, you cannot rule out the possibility that, on the contrary, there will be greater migratory flows following this corona crisis, after this corona epidemic, if it continues. I'm talking about people who have nothing left to lose. If we want to get a grip on that without compromising our values, then we will have to get to work. I have some questions. One. Does the Prime Minister agree that pushbacks cannot be allowed, that they are against international law and that the European Commission should put Greece on the spot? Two. Mr Azmani of the VVD argued here last week, and I found that an interesting argument for legal migration, in order to get control of migratory flows. I hope Mr Rutte will listen to that. If we want to send asylum seekers who have been processed back to countries of origin, then we must also have something to offer them. If that is regulated labour migration for sectors with many job vacancies, that is win-win. I ask Mr Rutte if he can see that. Finally. Is Mr Rutte prepared to look again at matters such as the Malta Declaration and not be dependent on Hungary's cooperation? Our interest is greater than Hungary's participation. Our interest is getting a grip on what's going on there. Finally, Mr President, Russia. It is, I think, very good that it has now been described in detail and without flour in the mouth what Russia means to the European Union, namely a threat to its own people, to the Russian population, and to the European Union. From the silence of the media to the calving of the political opposition, to the annexation of Crimea, to the use of chemical weapons on the European continent. It was an honest explanation that we stand for. The European Commission, a High Representative, says that it is going to get worse before it gets better. But the answer that is then laid down remains unclear to me: push back, constrain and engagement. What does that mean, I ask Mr Rutte. As far as my group is concerned, we will only get a change in behaviour in Russia if we hit the cabal around Putin hard, if we keep Russia to the home-made agreements and if we approach the Russian people. I have a few questions about this hard hitting Putin. On page 11 of the Commission's communications, it says that the European Union wants to upgrade and extend the existing sanctions regimes. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he intends to proceed in this Council with last week's motion, which calls on the Cabinet to impose sanctions on the Putin clique. I hope he's really committed to that. The second question on this subject, which is also set out in those communications, is how we will act harder against the presence of Russian money on the European continent. What ideas will the Netherlands put forward there? That's pushing back hard. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions about bringing the population to us. First of all, on expressing the European Union's views on the legislation that is affecting civil society in Russia, but also on improving people-to-people contacts. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what is going to happen now to improve visa legislation for artists, journalists and students, and I am referring to people who can sniff up democracy and the rule of law, so that they can bring that seed back to Russia, even if only a germ, in order to bring about change there. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u30	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Piri from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You won't be surprised if I start my contribution with Hungary. How can a young homosexual in that country still come out with a law that has only one purpose, namely to silence and deny individuals in Hungary to be themselves? It is nauseating that a law against paedophilia is being used to take discriminatory measures against lhbti people. That is why I respect the goalkeeper of the German team and the mayor of Munich, who both wanted to make a statement with a rainbow flag. I can't believe that UEFA, which has no problem getting sponsored by state-owned companies from autocratic regimes, is trying to stop this. Just a sport with a huge range and an example for young people can break a lance for the freedom to love whoever you want and to be who you are. Mr. Chairman. For far too long we have looked away and removed what is happening in countries like Hungary and Poland with hollow warnings. For too many countries, economic interests gained from essential freedoms. The Prime Minister sits at the table again Thursday and Friday with the instigator of all this, Viktor Orbán. I would therefore ask him to address his Hungarian colleague personally. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be diplomatic. The largest recipient of European funds is the same Orbán. When are we finally gonna shut down the money supply? When will we finally deploy the new rule of law mechanism? I would like to join the call of the VVD Group. Why do we have to wait until there is a ruling from the European Court? Mr. Chairman. From one autocrat I jump to another: Erdogan. One of the issues at the European summit is the so-called positive agenda with Turkey. In other words, more trade and support for Erdogan in exchange for a new migration agreement and calm in the Mediterranean. The government has taken quite a U-turn in this area over the past year. In December 2016, the European Commission advised Heads of Government to start negotiations on extending the customs union with Turkey. Four consecutive years, the Netherlands has vetted this together with a number of other countries. The reason for this was, in the words of the Dutch cabinet: Turkey is an important country for us and at the same time we see that the rule of law is under enormous strain, so now is not the time to talk about a modernised customs union. I would therefore like to hear from the Prime Minister what has improved in that situation of the rule of law compared to 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 or 2020, in order to change position suddenly. The Council's leaked draft conclusions on Turkey are again shameful. The word "human rights" does not occur once in the seven paragraphs. I do not think I need remind the Prime Minister that Ankara is still a member of NATO and a candidate for membership of the European Union. So we cannot put the country along the same measuring bar as Russia or China. Hence my question as to whether the Prime Minister can promise that the Council conclusions will also address the human rights situation in Turkey, rather than just paying attention to that country's foreign policy. Mr. Chairman. The European Heads of Government also talk about migration. Since 2015, the EU has failed to establish an effective and humane migration policy. The consequences of this are thousands of tragic deaths on the Mediterranean and people without any prospect in shelter camps on the Greek islands. And there's still no solution in sight. My questions to the Prime Minister are therefore: is the new European Migration Pact finally progressing? Is the Prime Minister prepared to denounce illegal pushbacks by other EU countries and Frontex? With which countries do the Heads of Government intend to conclude new migration pacts? Is the Prime Minister also prepared to see whether progress can be made in the area of migration with a coalition of like-minded countries, rather than waiting for Budapest and Warsaw, for example, to take a step forward? I also understand that there are already far-reaching negotiations on a new EU-Turkey deal. My group supports this in principle, but I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what amount the cabinet is thinking about, what period of time. Is there a resettlement component of refugees from Turkey to the Netherlands and other countries? Mr. Chairman. I think it's also neat to express compliments where compliments are justified. I am extremely pleased that we have managed to reach a unanimous agreement on a far-reaching sanction package against Belarus. The importance of this must not be overlooked. We discussed in one of the previous committee meetings with Minister Kaag the fact that around EUR 440 million of oil is traded from Belarus via the port of Rotterdam. My question to the Prime Minister is: is it true that sanctions on the petrochemical industry are now being brought to an end? Finally, my motion for a resolution has just been adopted at the time of the vote and has already been referred to by my Green Left colleague, Mr Van der Lee, who is calling on the cabinet to work at EU level to stop the European opposition to the temporary suspension of patents. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he will implement this at the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u32	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Eppink of the JA21 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u33	Mr. Chairman. With surprise and interest I heard that the Vatican suggested opening the procedure for the sanctification of European founding father Robert Schuman. Protestant circles often feared that the European Union would be given the contours of the Holy Roman Empire. The Vatican has now made a move. There must be two miracles before this happens. One I found and I can deliver. Schuman began his career in the Vichy administration in France, where he briefly supported Marshal Pétain. He left that government and didn't get a job in the government after the war. But général de Gaulle changed that. Schuman was even Prime Minister of the French Republic and founder of European integration. That's a beautiful miracle, I'd say. A second possible miracle was delivered by Minister Kaag, unfortunately she is not here. She gave a speech in Strasbourg at the plenary session on the Conference on the Future of Europe. I had asked our European representative, Michiel Hoogeveen, to report on that speech very carefully. I assumed the Minister would fly completely off the bend with the inspiration of Guy Verhofstadt. However, the honourable Member informed me that the Minister quoted a text that almost literally came out of my widely accepted chamber motion on this subject, namely that the debate should be open and diverse. I didn't know what I heard! I would therefore like to thank the Minister for taking such good account of the wishes of JA21. As often happens, the European summit becomes a roundabout world. However, two points are of great national importance to the Netherlands. Firstly, the corona repair fund of more than EUR 800 billion requires a guarantee of EUR 43 billion from the Netherlands. Unfortunately, I would say that the fund has already been ratified. I hope that the government will stick to its commitment that this fund will be a one-off. It warns from various sides that this fund can lead to waste and abuse. My question is: does the cabinet agree with me that strict control is required? The second point concerns the banking union. Here too, the Netherlands guarantees southern Europe. This means that if a bank goes bankrupt in Greece or Italy, Dutch citizens and banks will have to take the hit. These are the two examples, the EU Restoration Fund and the Banking Union, of how the Netherlands ended up in a transfer union through monetary union. Mr. Chairman. I therefore recommend to the outgoing cabinet that the Dutch citizens and banks should not suffer the consequences of decades of malpractice in different Member States. I therefore wish the Government every success in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u34	Thank you. Then Mr Amhaouch of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Mr Eppink for quoting the pontifex or the pope and putting the father and founder of the European Union in a good light, but positive. I think he deserves that, too, because he had a moving insight back then. Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about Turkey, about lunch with the UN Secretary-General and Hungary. But the most important part of the agenda of this summit is, as far as I am concerned, the economic recovery. There is rightly talk about how the European economy should be supported in 2021 and 2022. Debt sustainability is also discussed. That is an important condition for my group to make economic recovery permanent. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Council also marks the debt position of the major debt countries, such as France and Italy. Will the lessons that can be learned from the COVID-19 pandemic at European level also be discussed? Of course, the health aspect is important. Interestingly, the World Health Assembly in November will discuss the possible establishment of a new pandemic treaty. The EU must now, in the post-pandemic, start thinking in economic terms. That is where the EU's absolute competence lies. It is important that the EU takes the economy one step further. We must now make our economy future-proof, technologically but also geographically. This means investing in the right place in economic sectors that are essential for our future earning capacity, our prosperity, our mutual dependence and our jobs. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the state of the Union, I have already mentioned it briefly, but I would like to go into this further: we must ensure that the Northern European region is strengthened, deepened and expanded with its unique earning capacity. This also applies to more regions in Europe. We need to deepen the existing strong economic added value. This is what the EU is doing with its reshoring strategy, industrial strategy and also by creating a sustainable economy with the Green Deal. So bread on the shelf, I'd say. But then I am surprised that we are not going through with this economic investment. Commissioner Breton says he has billions to invest in a northern European techhub, but our departments and ministers are looking at each other when it comes to who should take the lead in it. I see an important role for the Prime Minister in that, otherwise we will miss a great opportunity. The European strengthening of our economy is interdisciplinary and interdepartmental. That's how we're supposed to fly it. I ask the Prime Minister to step up coordination in the recruitment and deployment of European funds and I ask him to step up coordination on policies to strengthen our economic international orientation. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister how he's going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u36	Mr Amhaouch and I agree with each other on this point. We have often exchanged this in other debates. But I still have a question. The government's formal argument when you ask why no projects have been submitted this year is: the demand is "That's what the Netherlands has been trying to do to reform at the same time. My question to Mr Amhaouch is: doesn't he think that even Rutte III has implemented reforms and that that argument doesn't really make sense at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u37	I partly agree with Mr Van der Lee. Of course, the formation will release quite a few resources. I don't want to call it a penny. But I would also like to see our government think interdepartmental and somewhat larger. Of course we have the RFF funds or other resources, but the most important thing I said last time is: what choices do we want to make for future earning ability? If Breton comes to the Netherlands and says he wants to put billions on the table, then perhaps we should look at it with a number of countries. I am not saying that we should presort on RFF resources, but perhaps the Netherlands, Germany and France can make a certain industry stronger. I will come back to that in a moment. We can generate European champions, which also benefits our SMEs. I hear in the right-hand corner that the chairman agrees with me!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u38	I agree with every speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u39	That's how I understood him, Mr. Amhaouch. I think we agree on that point. I note that the CDA with GroenLinks believes that this cabinet is also reforming. Just look at the pension agreement. In this respect, there would have been every reason to come forward with proposals for the recovery and resilience fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u40	You could have, but if it's about a lot of billions, I understand you want to discuss that in formation. But again, that's one. My speech to the Prime Minister is to think a little bigger than just that fund. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. At least I see two tracks, but I would like the Prime Minister to think further about how he can do that and how he can accelerate. Can the Prime Minister at least address a possible working group or interdepartmental task force in which better coordination within the Netherlands and between Northern European economic players can be achieved? Mr. Chairman. We should not be afraid to strengthen European champions. Think of the new Airbus, for example. Those are big global players, which we need to place in a playing field with large Chinese and American companies, which are often also supported by their own government. The importance of these companies goes beyond European autonomy. It has great added value for European value chains, including many SMEs. The whole European internal market benefits from these European champions. Mr. Chairman. European autonomy is not a French invention. It is the deepening of our internal market. A strong economic and monetary union, a global European standard and European autonomy is in the Dutch interest. That is why it is so important for Member States to embrace this themselves, in order to drive the flywheels of the limited European resources and the EU's coordinating capacity. We take this moment, so I ask the Prime Minister. I almost hope for a non-paper prepared with Northern European countries to strengthen the North European high-tech economic hub, from Eindhoven to Munich, and from Leuven to Copenhagen. A region with global appeal. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Turkey. Much has been said about Turkey in recent months. My group maintains the view that we really need to look for a new interpretation of our relationship. We must not alienate the Turkish people, as Erdogan does. But we do need to be clear and powerful in our signals and attitude. That is why, in a review of the customs union, we see a step in the right direction. What does the statement say about that? Does that also mean that we are finally stopping the accession talks and that Turkey is reducing the status of candidate countries? Would that be desirable, according to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u41	It is said that we think we are taking a strong stand on what is happening in Turkey. At the same time I hear the CDA say: we are pleased that we are going to establish our trade relationship with Erdogan. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u42	Oh, yeah. It's not very black and white. I have just heard Mrs Piri's speech. She's pretty sharp in it, with stretched leg, like the medal has one side. Yes, we need to focus on what is happening in Turkey: on human rights, on the journalists who are stuck and so on. At the same time, whatever I say in my speech, we must not alienate the people of Turkey, 80 million people, also a very large economy. Well, then, we should be on two tracks. There are four million refugees in Turkey. We're gonna have to make arrangements on that axis. That's what I just heard Mrs. Piri say. But also economically: The Netherlands is a big investor in parties. I think we need to work on both sides and hope that Erdogan will come to his senses and come back to the right direction step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u43	I agree with Mr Amhaouch when it comes to the reception of 3.7 million refugees that Turkey is doing. We really have an obligation to help. I do not know how the democrats in Turkey listen to your speech. What they really want is for us to impose conditions on the economic trade relationship, not through sanctions, but through pressure on human rights. Turkey does not implement judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Journalists are in prison. Turkey has withdrawn from the Istanbul Convention. I can go on for a while. What surprises me is that the CDA Group in the European Parliament voted in favour of motions until four weeks ago to impose human rights conditions before you give an economic deal to Erdogan, and that your group here, I believe the same party, has not been able to resist it. How can you explain that? Why this gift to President Erdogan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u44	It's not a gift. When it comes to membership of the European Union, we simply have to stop doing so. My predecessors, too, have repeatedly asked this question here and also our delegation in Europe. I would also like a response from the Prime Minister. At the same time, indeed, the Istanbul Convention: that is not done. We must insist on the human rights situation. At the same time, you must not alienate the people there. Indeed, we must set up all kinds of boycotts tomorrow. I heard someone say we need to get out of the customs union once. It's possible. Who was helped with that? Not the Turkish people, not the Turkish people, but also the Europeans who invest in them. It's a two-track policy. I admit it's not easy and there's tension on it. I absolutely admit that. Then Hungary. Many colleagues have already mentioned this. We ask for a public strong condemnation of the Prime Minister at the time he has been to the Council. People need to be able to get us to really condemn that. There's a line to be drawn. That is why we have also warmly embraced the Dassen motion, signed by eleven political groups. Finally, Mr President. The Council will speak to the UN Secretary-General at lunchtime. The agenda is not clear yet, but the multilateral system is under pressure, says the Prime Minister. Last month we received the message that the World Health Organisation aid workers were guilty of sexual abuse of people suffering from the corona crisis. You do not want to think about it. My colleague, Mr Kuik, has asked questions about this to the Minister for Foreign Trade and OS and regularly agitates these abuses. I would ask you to address this issue with the Secretary-General over lunch and to express our concerns about it, because this is also about the credibility of multilateral organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u45	Thank you. One more question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u46	Thank you to Mr Amhaouch for making a clear statement on Hungary, but I thought I would ask him a question, because we all received this ridiculous letter from the Hungarian ambassador. Not only does he talk about organized hysteria that would be practised against Hungary, but he also calls it a left-wing campaign. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u47	Human rights and the rule of law are not left or right. What happened again this week, we need to see, I don't know who said that in the trend of the steps that have been taken. There's been a blackmail with the justice system and with judges. The law of media and journalists has been blackmailed. This is another step. I also said it last week: our European Union is a value community and an economic carrier. They're important to the CDA. And we just need to be strict about what we expect from the value community of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u48	Very clear. Do you therefore support any additional steps towards Hungary? Several questions have been asked. We'll hear from the Prime Minister if there are any options.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u49	If there are appropriate measures, I would like to support them, but I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what he is thinking about. I understand that the Prime Minister was quite excited yesterday and today. I wonder how he translates that into strict diplomatic language that is not addressed to deaf ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u50	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs van der Plas of the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u51	Thank you. Mr President, Members of Parliament, dear citizens. 0.3% of our population feeds the other 99.7%. Those 99.7% are among others. We can do what we want, become who we want to be: Prime Minister, People's Representative, Deputy President of the Chamber, Footballer, Bus Driver, whatever. That is possible because we do not have to milk cows at night, feed pigs, sit at sea week after week for good fishing or be on land until night to work it or harvest it. We have farmers, gardeners, fishermen and hunters for that. They take care of our food so we can do everything else. Thanks to this food supply, we also have no food shortage. So most people don't know hunger or malnutrition either. We all know where food scarcity leads: unrest and civil wars and, consequently, immigration flows. And no, the Netherlands doesn't have to feed the world. But we can help to feed the world with our good, safe, affordable, sustainable and always available food, but also with our expertise and fertile soil. Fertile land that disappears here with thousands of hectares a year for housing, among other things. Housing for immigrants and war refugees who are no longer able to live in their own country because of civil wars, for example. Civil wars that often start with food scarcity. Dutch farmers, growers and fishermen make high-quality products; food that some people in the Netherlands think is ridiculous that we export, but which hundreds of millions of people in this world are happy about, because they are unable to grow this good, safe, affordable, sustainable and always available food as efficiently and high-quality. On a tundra you can't grow lettuce, in the Sinai you can't grow potatoes and in the Swiss Alps you can't grow beans. All this can be done in the Netherlands. That also gives us hundreds of thousands of jobs. Every farmer in the Netherlands keeps 12 people working. 600,000 people directly and indirectly work in or for the agricultural sector. We therefore call on the Prime Minister to make himself even stronger in the EU for our farmers, growers and fishermen, our food makers. As the Netherlands, we must dare to fight for their right to exist and make it clear that there is no trade agreement if foreign products are not kept to the same strict production methods as our own. I'll come back to immigration. We are pleased to see that the Netherlands wants to cooperate on tackling the root causes of migration, tackling trafficking in human beings, border management and return. We also hope that the Prime Minister-in-Office of the Council, I have heard from people at home, by the way, that I must say that the Prime Minister-in-Office is travelling to Brussels with a clear vision. A vision in which Europe's external borders are strong and where we together provide humanitarian reception in the regions. Our food makers can contribute to the prevention of refugee flows. Migration flows often occur when there is a shortage of food, as I said. By decimating our food makers, in the Netherlands and also in Europe, food security is in danger in the long term. Because with farmers and gardeners, the knowledge that we need in the years to come to teach other countries in the world how to produce food as well, safe, affordable, sustainable and always available as we do. This will also help to combat migratory flows. Activate the vast knowledge at Wageningen University; the university that has the right to exist thanks to our strong agricultural sector. That university will eventually disappear when our Dutch farmers, growers and fishermen disappear. Activate our broad sector to make food production more efficient and constant in regions from which migration flows come. Use the experts. Stop subsidising NGOs that are working all over Europe to limit food makers in the context of, for example, wish nature. In 50 years, we'll be sorry. Then we regret that we chased away the people who make one of our first three necessities besides water and oxygen instead of cherished. Then we regret that we can no longer use knowledge in those countries that need it most. Once it's gone, it won't come back. Give the experts, the food makers the direct support they need to make a tangible difference. Please make a commitment to this in the EU. And not only for our farmers, our food makers, but also for the millions of people we can help to feed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u52	Thank you. Then Mrs Maeijer from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u53	Thank you, Mr President. No one has to fly ten or twelve times a year, said Frans Timmermans. Nobody, except, of course, Mr von der Leyen. Last week she was in Portugal, Spain, Denmark, Greece and Luxembourg and this week she is in Austria, Slovakia, Germany, Italy, Lithuania, Belgium and France. It visits these countries to celebrate the redistributing of billions, our billions, because the Commission has approved the recovery plans of these countries. Mrs. Von der Leyen is on a real recovery tour. As I said last week during the debate on the State of the Union, I suspect that it will not move by train. Is this true? And don't you think this is hypocritical, I ask the Prime Minister. If it is up to the European Commission, the Council will agree that billions will be allocated to achieving climate goals, that half a billion will be allocated to temporarily increase tax deductions in Denmark, that millions will be allocated to childcare in Slovakia, that 1.3 billion will be allocated to digitising the public sector in Greece, that 3.4 billion will be allocated to making homes in Spain more energy efficient, and so on. Does the Prime Minister still believe that this is a better goal to spend our hard-earned money on than on our care, our elderly and our entrepreneurs? Meanwhile, warnings already sound for widespread abuse of this tax money co-capped by the Netherlands; money that we could have spent better in our own country. Mr. Chairman. Last weekend the first plenary session of the conference on the future of Europe took place; a Brussels circus that has everything to do with becoming a talk club without citizens. I read in the news that last Saturday's meeting consisted of 108 members of the European Parliament, 54 representatives of the Council, 3 members of the European Commission, 108 representatives of national parliaments and 16 representatives of the social partners and civil society. The 108 citizens who should also participate in the meeting were still selected. The first meeting of the conference on the future of Europe for citizens took place without the citizens. It is only possible in Brussels, isn't it? I don't understand anymore. Can the Prime Minister at last tell us about the cost of the conference, or do we see the price tag of this party only after it's over? Mr. Chairman. The European Pact for Migration and Asylum is the European Commission's latest find. It can be placed on the pile of hotspots, redistribution mechanisms and so on, because it remains a never ending story as long as the European elite clings to its dream of a European Union without frontiers and facilitating. Thousands of asylum seekers have been storming places in Spain and Greece. I would like to know how much money is being allocated to migration deals with third countries. And for what share will the Netherlands stand at the bar in the context of redistribution? And when will we finally realise that we need to implement our own immigration policy? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the European Union has driven the Swiss away, but Turkey is being kept to its breasts. The country is still a candidate country and the money tap is still open. I therefore have a number of questions. What steps will the Council take in relation to Turkey in the coming days? How much is Turkey currently receiving from the European Union and why is it still receiving funds from the pre-accession instruments when negotiations are stopped? And from when did Turkey open up the money supply for accession to the EU and how much money has it received so far? Finally, Mr President. Last week we were here in the debate on the state of the Union. Above all, it was a plea for more European Union from all sides. Minister Kaag said that everything requires a European answer. Carte blanche for the European Union. A bad thing for the Netherlands. As long as we are in it, we should focus on retrieving powers rather than responding to each issue with more European cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u54	Thank you. Mr Bishop of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Oh, another question from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u55	Yes, a question because all the previous speakers have talked about an issue that Mrs Maeijer is anxiously avoiding, namely the situation in Hungary. In the previous debate, I asked her why her group applauded Mr Orbán so much and why he was such a hero for her; perhaps the President could explain this otherwise. Then she didn't have the answer ready. I would like to ask her whether, after the introduction of this anti-gay legislation, she has the answer ready or whether she may have other thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u56	I did not intend to participate in the fact that another half-debate is now actually about Hungary, a sovereign country, which makes its own laws, just as we make our own laws, as long as it is allowed by the European Union and D66. I am therefore also proposing that we should not be concerned about the extent to which we are still dealing with our own legislation. And let's just let that country make its own laws and stay out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u57	That is, of course, an argument where you can shoot holes in incredibly easily. Let me try one way. Mrs Maeijer has just spoken extensively about Turkey; comprehensive, totally criticised, finished. On some points this is right and my group shares Mrs Maeijer's criticism. But we should be able to talk about Turkey, which is outside the European Union, when we should keep our mouths shut about a country with which we work very closely and which lies within the European Union. That's actually what Mrs Maeijer is saying here. I ask Mrs Maeijer how it is that this hypocrisy is so deep in your group and that you do want to read the measure of Turkey, and rightly so, but with Hungary you simply put the blinders on and keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u58	Once again, Hungary is a sovereign country. That makes its own legislation, just like we make our own. In my plea about Turkey, it was about the fact that that country is still a candidate country and still receives billions from pre-accession aid. Do you know what the hypocrisy about this story is? You also asked me last week about the money flows. My group is in favour of leaving the European Union. We're against pumping all this money around. So yes, I would like to put an end to the fact that our taxpayers' money flows to everyone in the European Union. That's your idea, not my idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u59	Clear, so far. Then Mr Bishop of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u60	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the floor. I have three points I would like to touch on: very briefly COOVID-19, then economic recovery and then I would like to focus on migration policy. With regard to the corona crisis, we are fortunately seeing a significant reduction in the number of infections throughout Europe. As far as the SGP is concerned, and with that I am putting the point on the table, the European Green Certificate will not remain in force longer than is strictly necessary. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Especially now that the degree of immunity has increased widely, it is necessary to continue to critically review this certificate for proportionality and necessity. The SGP also supports an evaluation of the role of the European Union in dealing with this crisis, if only in order to prevent the Commission from constantly drawing on all kinds of new powers. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the point of economic recovery. Last week the first loans for the Recovery Fund were released. From now on, the EU can spread money so that Member States can help their economies get back on top. At the same time, it appears that the economy is gaining momentum again and growth rates are rising. Too much extra financial support can therefore also lead to overheating. Hence my question to the Prime Minister about how useful and necessary this Recovery Fund is. Shouldn't we just let the economy and the market do their job, now that the economy is recovering beyond expectations even without this mega fund? I'd like to see the reaction. The funds allocated to education, infrastructure and the fast Internet are not always clear to me, and how they are all covered by the recovery from the corona crisis. Sometimes it's a complete mystery to me. Many Member States are jumping to spend the money and the Commission seems to want to make the money available as soon as possible. But then there is the issue of efficiency. The effectiveness of EU spending is sometimes inadequate. Hence the question of how to ensure that the money is spent usefully and efficiently. And if efficiency is not clear, does the cabinet intend to put a firm brake on it? Mr. Chairman. The recovery fund must be temporary. I think the cabinet's on that line, too. If it's different, I'd like to hear it. But there are more and more signs that there are forces that want to get rid of the temporary character as quickly as possible. I'd like a reflection from the Prime Minister on that. Does the Prime Minister agree that a proactive attitude, including that of the Netherlands, is necessary to keep that Recovery Fund temporary? Mr. Chairman. Then the point of migration. If there is one dossier in the EU area that really makes me hopelessly despondent, that is migration. In fact, I would like to confine myself to the key question. Can the Prime Minister indicate what has been improved in the area of asylum and migration policy over the past four years thanks to the EU's commitment and involvement? There have, of course, been all kinds of developments, but they have occurred more autonomously, so without the EU's hand being recognizable in them. I remember endless discussions and debates on asylum matters. Each time it was "powerful action this" and "strong approach that," and so on. Those are tough words, but what has actually been achieved at EU level? I would also like to narrow that down and focus on the Netherlands: what have we improved as the Netherlands in this whole asylum and migration policy? I could go further in the direction of the Prime Minister, with the request to continue to go massively for those deals that need to be closed, but they have actually been deployed four years ago and they have not yet got off the ground. There are also a number of other points, but I would like to have a general reflection of the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u61	Then we'll listen... Oh, there's another question from Mr. Van der Lee, Mr. Bishop. Would you like to come back? Mr. Bishop, before you leave the premises...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u62	I always like to do my colleague a favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u63	Yes, I still had a question for Mr Bishop. I heard him interrupt earlier in the debate. Do I have to understand that the SGP is fully responsible for the content of the law submitted in Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u64	It is not for me to pass judgment on a law passed in another sovereign state. But if you have listened carefully to the interruption, you will understand that I have turned against the framing of this law and against the framing of this law as if it were mainly an anti-gay law. Words are being made about homosexuality and homophilia, that's right. This law only offers much more. That should at least lead to some nuance. It strikes me in the reactions to this law that one group spins and rolls across the other to express even more how much disgust one does not have about this law, while Mr Maeijer rightly notes that it is about a sovereign state. We are talking about: yes, but our European values. Yes, but that law is within the European values as laid down in the Treaty. That from the Netherlands, or from certain points of view, a different interpretation and broadening of these values, will be true. But that is not the case in Hungary. And that has every right to do so. That's my story. So some nuance and recognition of Hungary's independent position, please. Let's keep dealing with each other with respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u65	I asked a substantive question and got an answer about framing. Then I'll just ask another substantive question. Can we look forward to the SGP that will fine Dutch schools if they prohibit the attention paid to homosexuality in sexual education for children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u66	I think this is about a law that is in force in Hungary. I do not think that we need to be guided by this as a Dutch parliament. We should be cautious in this respect in relation to the situation in other sovereign Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u67	Does Mr Bishop think that European Member States should comply with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u68	Yeah, that makes sense to me. The question is, of course, only about the details and the way in which they are worked out. It offers a certain space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u69	If Mr Bishop seems logical, then I think it is also logical that he should now say that what is happening in Hungary cannot be done. Because Article 21 of that directive states that discrimination in the field of sexual orientation is prohibited. Then Mr Bishop can say all kinds of things about what remains to be invented under this law. But it is quite simple, I think, Mr Bishop, with all his knowledge of Hungary, and undoubtedly his missives from the Hungarian ambassador, that he knows quite well that Hungarian education should not provide any more sexual information about anything other than heterosexuality. It says that there should be no more publications except after 8:00 p.m., if I do, but maybe I'm under the guise of children's well-being. Mr Bishop must admit that that is contrary to Rule 21. If Mr Bishop says that he thinks that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is important, he would well say here with the rest of the Chamber, minus the PVV, that we do not want to do so, that is what we are talking about Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u70	This draws exactly the nuance that is needed. Because why isn't schools allowed? Because it is explicitly invested as a responsibility of the parents. What's against that? Hungary has every right to make that choice. In the area of strengthening the family, Hungary finds the SGP on its side. I hope the Hungarian ambassador will be pleased with that. That's why I call that framing. Mr Van der Lee takes it off as if I were not going to go into the substance. So I am going to deal with the content and I am referring to the matters covered by that law. That is why we are talking about paedophilia. That is why pornography is being discussed. And that's why we're talking about fluid gender identity. All this has to do with the responsibility placed on the family, on parenting. That seems to me to be an excellent approach, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u71	I quote the Hungarian ambassador: yes, the law forbids the display and promotion of homosexuality. This goes directly against the European Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights, which you just said you endorsed. How's that going together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u72	This is about the educational situation. This isn't about adults making choices. This is about kids being protected. This is exactly such a typical example of framing, because you take out one phrase and then you say: look, antigay! No, that's not the point. This is an educational situation provided for by this law. Yeah, well, I guess a sovereign state has every right to do that. This in no way undermines European values, not even Article 21 of the Charter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u73	I am also in favour of free education and space in education...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u74	Well, to avoid misunderstandings, I'm not in favour of free education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u75	No, I was afraid of that, but we'll talk about that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u76	Sure, I'd be happy to serve you as a grandfather.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u77	But there are a number of ground rules, ground agreements in Europe. They are about equality, about the prohibition of discrimination and about the equal treatment of straight and gay people. That's the way it is. Mr Bishop may disagree, but these are a number of ground agreements in Europe. Does he recognise that there are and that Hungary is violating them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u78	The answer to the latter is no. The first answer is yes. But that is a more detailed version of treaty texts. This freedom has countries, but they cannot be imposed on other Member States. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u79	Thank you. Then there is Mr Segers of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the run-up to the European summit on 24 and 25 June, I have a number of topics, covid, Europe as a community of values and migration. First corona. I would also like to thank the Cabinet for providing free tests. That was a wish of the Chamber and the cabinet implements it. I am grateful to the Cabinet for that. I, too, like Mr Piri and Mr Van der Lee, ask for a response to the Piri motion, which has been adopted, which asks to look at the United States and what President Biden is doing with the release of patents, so that the production of the vaccine is made possible, including in countries where the virus is still around and causing serious damage. If that helps, help with the release of the patents as well. That is my first point. Then Europe as a community of values. In relation to Russia, that's what it's about. The cabinet writes that the EU must jointly make a fist against Russia where it acts in violation of our interests or values. Mr Sjoerdsma has rightly said that we need these people-to-people contacts. It is very nice when people come here and see how a democratic rule of law works. Then we can promote something of what is a democracy. But sometimes you have to stand up for freedom and stand up for your values, for example in relation to Belarus. A package of sanctions has been agreed against Belarus. But Russia also plays a role here, for example in the case of airlines that avoid Belarus. They are refused by Russia, so Russia plays a role in that. Where do we draw a line in this respect when it comes to defending our values in relation to Russia? Then Turkey. I actually agree with Mr Piri. She says: "Narrower cooperation is nice and nice. I read a few warm sentences about that, but it can never be at the expense of our values, can it? Surely that can never be at the expense of human rights? Surely that can never be at the expense of journalists who are in prison?" It is about the fundamental freedoms of Europe as a community of values. So my question is: what does this intensification mean? Is this an attempt at good neighbourliness, or is it still at stake, in the context of possible EU membership? I would find the latter extremely undesirable, because we have nothing to offer there, especially in the light of the violations of human rights that are currently taking place. Mr. Chairman. A neighbouring country, Azerbaijan, violates the law of war. We talked about this in the debate last week. But now the play schedule of the European Championships could make sure that we end up in the stadium in Baku. Mr Van der Lee has already underlined it: Armenian soldiers are being held prisoner of war a few kilometers away. It's the place where the law of war is violated. It would be extremely cynical if we were to sit in the gallery with a representative of our government, with violations of human rights around it. Wouldn't it be beneficial to draw a line there too? I agree with questions about Hungary. A motion by Mr Dassen was adopted today. It was filed last week and adopted now. We have voted in favour of this. It looks at restrictions on freedoms and violation of the democratic rule of law. If Europe is a community of values, the Prime Minister has said this: it is not just about economic cooperation, but it is also a community of values.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u81	I couldn't agree more. Mr Segers also mentioned the European Championship. On Sunday, the Netherlands will play in Budapest, Hungary. What does Mr Segers think of it as 'in theory', because I do not know anything about the planning of a delegation from the cabinet or the King would be there, given all the fuss about anti-gay legislation in Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u82	That's a question I asked myself, too. There's some discomfort. First of all, it is a violation of war law in Azerbaijan, so that is a truly exceptional situation. Secondly, Hungary is a fellow EU member. In this escalation, we must continue to appeal to Hungary to restrict freedoms and to restrict the democratic rule of law. We are seeing a development that we are deeply concerned about. If I'm sensitive to anything, it's the restriction of minority rights. And that is what we are talking about in Hungary. So should we appeal to Hungary? Yes. Does that have to have consequences? Yes. So that can never be without obligation, but in this case on Sunday, let me ask you an open question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u83	I think it is right to be very cautious on Sunday. It is quite right that we should address Hungary. After all, it is a fellow Member State of the European Union, of which the Netherlands is of course also a member. Is it appropriate if our Prime Minister or our King celebrates the victory of the Netherlands on Sunday? Because that we are going to win is of course certain; you have a point in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u84	I think that's a good question. Let's ask that question to the cabinet. I find it more evident in the violation of war law, because it is a more extreme situation. But this cannot pass unnoticed. Mr. Chairman, in all seriousness, you spoke to me just now. Indeed, I look very seriously into the world, when it is not always me. But still, we have some serious issues on the table here, including the Recovery Fund. There's 5.6 billion ready. Colleagues already spoke to the Prime Minister. I'm afraid we may be late. So I would like a response from the Prime Minister. Another motion by Mr Dassen has been adopted which says: prepare plans; make sure it is ready. Mr Amhaouch had great and compelling plans; we had to think bigger. Maybe I'm a little more provincial; that could just happen. To be honest, I was thinking of very nice O.V. connections and a large isolation plan for Dutch houses, but I do not want to disturb Mr Amhaouch's dreams. In very important areas, when it comes to sustainability and combating climate change, these funds can be used, and we must use them to do so. Finally, Mr. Chairman, migration. I also agree with the questions about the pushbacks, which are very worrying. It is simply a disgrace for Europe, once again as a community of values, which is taking place on the edge of Europe. I'd also like a reaction to that bad practice. I would like to thank the President for his extremely kind gesture of giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u85	I do that a lot, but only when you're here. Then we are going to listen to Mr Dassen from the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to return to the previous euro summit. There was then a traditional exchange of views with the President of the European Parliament. I wondered what exactly was discussed in this traditional exchange of views and what the Prime Minister and the European Council have been doing in this regard. Mr. Chairman. We read in the cabinet's letter that there will be talk about partner countries and migration. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that the externalisation of our borders by concluding treaties on migration with countries such as Turkey and Libya is not a structural solution? In the new Pact on Migration and Asylum, Frontex has a major role to play, despite the fact that it contributes to illegal actions to reduce asylum seekers. What is the Prime Minister's view of developments at Frontex and what is the commitment to the euro summit? The letter also talks about the root causes of irregular migration. What are these root causes, according to the Prime Minister, and when and how exactly are we going to deal with them? What steps will the Prime Minister take in the forthcoming Council to ensure that there is an effective migration policy that does not violate human rights and thus our European values? We often talk about human rights violations elsewhere. As long as the world sees European Member States pushing boats with children back to sea and how we are only watching, our own call for human rights will lose its strength. Can the Prime Minister give a reflection on that? Mr. Chairman. With regard to Belarus, I would like to hear how the Prime Minister looks at yesterday's Foreign Affairs Council regarding the 78 additional designated Belarusian individuals and 8 entities subject to sanctions. An important step in the right direction for the EU, accompanied by the US, the UK and Canada. According to the leader of the opposition, these sanctions do not sufficiently affect important individuals and entities. How does the Prime Minister look at the possible follow-up steps because these sanctions seem inadequate? The opposition leader of Belarus asked the Dutch government in May to focus sanctions in particular on petrochemical, steel and timber sectors, which we imported in 2020 for hundreds of millions of euros. Does the Prime Minister agree to this request or is he looking into it? I am also curious about the Prime Minister's commitment to the manipulation of migrants with possible spies with disruptive consequences by Lukashenko in Lithuania in response to these EU sanctions. A lot has been said about the Recovery Fund last time. What everyone has expressed his surprise about is the fact that there is no Dutch plan yet. I would just like to add a few words to that today. What reforms have been made to the Netherlands by the European Commission, according to the Prime Minister, are not worth 5 billion? Finally, the question to the Prime Minister as to where he sees risks to the plans submitted to date by the Recovery and Resilience Fund? How, for example, does he look at the plans of Greece and Germany? Then about COVID-19. What is the new pandemic treaty and what activities, according to the Prime Minister, could best be organised at European level? What precise lesson would the Prime Minister draw from the international solidarity mentioned in the letter? The cabinet is proud of the money allocated to developing countries to buy vaccinations from, but does not seem to see that money is not the problem. The problem is the shortages caused by the hamster behaviour of the US and European countries in particular. How does the Prime Minister view the long-term consequences for the relationship with African countries for this vaccination strategy? What is the contribution of the Netherlands to the 100 million doses for COVAX? Last time, the European summit also discussed local production facilities. What exactly is the status of that? Countries such as Indonesia and Bangladesh have indicated that there is capacity for 1 billion doses. But there is one problem that has already been mentioned - and those are the patents. Volt supports the further development of the Capital Markets Union and the European Deposit and Guarantee Scheme, but what is the status of the mandate of the European Court of Auditors with regard to audits of the ECB's supervisory activities, which have already been questioned in this Chamber? Then last Hungary. This has already been mentioned by many colleagues and I fully agree with them, but I do not see an item on the subject of the rule of law. Should it not be a standard subject of discussion on the agenda of the European Council? In fact, shouldn't this be the subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u87	Thank you. Then Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u88	The Prime Minister, when we look at the annotated agenda, takes the famous ringing finger to the European summit at the end of this week. With that little finger, he is going to lecture countries such as Russia and Turkey and, of course, Central and Eastern Europe in a European context. Because everything would be wrong in these countries with the rule of law, with the media, with democracy and so on. Where the hell does our prime minister get the guts? The Netherlands, the country which ignores referendum results, the country which alone has abolished the referendum together with the GDR, the country where a large part of the electorate is systematically excluded by the party cartel. The Netherlands, the country of the premium affair where parents in a bureaucratic mill were mercilessly ground and could not even find support in court, but where handy entrepreneurs can enrich themselves through the corrupt procurement of medical goods. The Netherlands, the country where gays and Jews in some neighbourhoods cannot safely walk hand in hand on the street or with a stick. The Netherlands, the country where MPs are sensitized by the government, where an opposition politician is condemned for his statements. This country, the Netherlands, is then going to take other European countries into account at EU level? What a farce! And does anyone understand the logic of this? Because we don't see it. Central and Eastern Europe is criticised for not being gay enough. But why does our government still allow immigrants from Muslim countries to enter countries where homosexual rights are actually at risk? The Netherlands may, no, even more so, have to be multicultural, but at the same time Hungary must be fully aligned at the same time at European level. Where is the space for diversity at European level? Mr. Chairman. So we do not believe it is our government to do freedoms and the rule of law. FVD thinks this ringing finger is a smokescreen. The reality is that Western European countries cannot stand the fact that Hungary is a successful country that does not participate in anti-nationalism, does not participate in the degradation of tradition and family life, does not participate in'refugees, welcome'. Poland and Hungary want to dominate culturally at European level and force the people there to colonise themselves. At the same time, in Western Europe, entire population groups are turning away from our values, there you will never hear the crippled flat spirits that make up our government, because then it suddenly becomes multiculture or something. We have recently spoken with the Hungarian Ambassador. He told us that Hungary, on principle, does not want to take the moral approach of other European countries. Hungary therefore respects our sovereignty. In view of the embarrassing list I have just given, let us be very happy about it. Orbán shows that he has more decency in his pinky than our Prime Minister in his entire body, because he certainly has enough material to cast the ban on the Netherlands, as our Prime Minister is so keen to do with Hungary. Since Hungary cannot defend itself in this Chamber, I quote the last paragraph of a public letter from the Ambassador, András Kocsis, which seeks to create some understanding for the Other with the capital A entirely in line with European values. "Why always Hungary, you may wonder. Well, that's simple. We are against the liberal mainstream and yet we are economically successful. Today's liberalism is about intolerance. This mainstream wants a hegemony of opinion instead of pluralism of ideas. Western Europeans want to live in a post-national and post-Christian world. We respect that choice, but they want more than that. They want us to live like this. The debate on the future of Europe, in other words our children, has begun. We're ready." Hungary is ready, so are we.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u89	Thank you. One more question from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u90	I actually wonder where Mr Van Houwelingen gets the guts to talk about not only the Prime Minister but also a large part of the Chamber, where he takes the guts to talk about values in such a way. When I look at the values of Forum for Democracy... I think Mr Van Houwelingen knows where this is going. Anti-Semitic apps. Mr Baudet, who talks about the homeopathic dilution of our society, of Europe. Attacking journalists. Undermining the rule of law. Would Mr Van Houwelingen think that these are typically Dutch values, typically European values? Or would that be the values of a party that should not actually be represented in this Parliament in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u91	Yes, that's how we remember Mr. Sjoerdsma. He shows up every time with some apps ripped out of context. That's all you've got? That's really all you can bring up here? You can't say anything about the content, you can only come up with a few apps? Well, then I'm allowed in turn, I suppose, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for agreeing. Let's review D66. I happen to have a list ready for it, because I've been expecting this interruption from you. D66, the party that abolished the referendum. D66, the party that financed Palestinian organizations with taxpayers' money. D66, the sphere of the MeTooschandals. Sidney Smeets had to quit recently; I'm not going to name them all, because I just think they're too gross to mention them all. I'm not gonna name them all. Your former group chairman Pechtold received an apartment gift. That party's here to lecture us morally now? That's ridicul, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u92	However, it is in your interest to have a piece of paper with which you can answer. But the point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u93	I wish I hadn't, Mr. Sjoerdsma, because I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u94	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u95	The point is, of course, Mr. Van Houwelingen, that you do not refute in any way...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u96	Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u97	Yes, Mr President, I said that Mr Van Houwelingen in no way refutes what I just called him. The hatred of journalists...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u98	It's total chuck...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u99	Ho ho ho, Mr Sjoerdsma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u100	The hatred of journalists, undermining the rule of law, anti-Semitism, general discrimination. I'm just gonna say it here again. I'm gonna say it here again. Mr. Van Houwelingen, you can't take a Prime Minister and the Chamber's measure here if your party stands for that kind of value. For values like that, that's just un-Dutch. You can rub anything on me, but my party is investigating and trying to restore the place, absolutely. Nothing happens in your party. Those who denounce anti-Semitism will be expelled from your party. So let me tell you one more time, Mr Van Houwelingen: every time you come here to defend the values of Hungary, I come to rub this in your face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u101	Total bullshit. Then where were you, Mr. Sjoerdsma, when your party funded Palestinian organizations? I'll have to ask you that. Where were you with that anti-Semitic cartoon that appeared about The Dog? Did I hear you condemn it? No. You keep talking about a few private apps that we've condemned and we've been investigating. That's all you've got. Look at your own behavior. Your party does things that are very bad for different communities. Take something out of our party program or point us to a motion or something we have done that you say could not be done; that has been bad for those, those and those groups. This is all you have. That's really sad, but that has become this room, this bedroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u102	Clear. Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u103	Thank you, Mr President. At the monthly Brussels chat club, European leaders will certainly discuss a lot with each other. They are important topics, including the coordination of corona. Now I have found out that Belgium has a quarantine obligation for travellers from high-risk areas. Since we are the darkest red country on the map of the ECDC, the European Health Organisation, I wonder why the quarantine obligation applies to ordinary people, but not to the Prime Minister. I would like to look forward to his answer, because this is a question that many people can have. Now that the end of the pandemic seems to be in sight and the whole of Europe is slowly moving away, people are busy with summer holidays. Much is still unclear about the travel advice and about what documents you need to enter a country. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the state of play is with regard to the standardisation of travel certificates within the European Union. Mr. Chairman. Many people with families in countries like Morocco and Turkey have not been able to see their families since the outbreak of the pandemic. It is therefore a good thing that Morocco has finally lifted the entry ban. Moroccan Dutch people can finally visit their family and friends, but unfortunately the border crossings between Spain and Morocco are still close due to high-level diplomatic tensions between the two countries. My question is whether ways of de-escalating can be sought at European level, so that Moroccans can visit their families via the Belgium-France-Spain route and then the transition to Morocco, not through expensive flights or expensive ferries from southern France or Italy. Mr. Chairman. Another point. The World Health Organisation has indicated that 11 billion vaccines are needed to control the pandemic. In the meantime, more and more government leaders are calling on pharmaceutical companies to release patents to increase production. A motion on this issue was also adopted today in the House of Representatives. However, the EU has made a poor 100 million doses available to COVAX. That's a drop on a glowing plate. Even if it is precisely the changes from other continents that can pose a direct threat to our public health, think of the famous delta variant at the moment... we as the European Union are doing far too little for poorer countries. Mr. Chairman. The vaccination in poorer countries is hopelessly behind. The message sounds loud and clear: we are not gonna make it this way. Is the EU aware of the threat of low vaccination rates in poorer countries? Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue at the EU Summit to make more vaccinations available to the COVAX programme? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Within the European Union there are also a number of other crises, namely the growing influence of Russia, the recent actions of Belarus and the radicalisation of Hungary. Let me start with Belarus. The broad coalition that has imposed sanctions towards the last dictatorship of Europe is a first and united step in the right direction. But are these sanctions actually going to work? That's what my colleague Dassen asked. What is the situation with Russia, the country in which a law has been passed that describes every opponent of the regime as extremist? Will the Prime Minister address Mr Sjoerdsma's adopted motion, supported by my group, at the EU Summit? What measures can be taken to protect critical members of the Russian opposition? Then I'll come to Hungary. As my group often points out, the greatest threat does not come from outside Europe, but from within the European Union. Many colleagues have already spoken about this. For the sake of time, I would like to join in the harsh words spoken by some of my colleagues. I also wonder whether it is not time to review the Article 7 procedure. For we see that when such a procedure is initiated, friendly countries constantly cover each other. In the case of Hungary, therefore, we can do quite little, because we will see that they will probably be covered by Poland. When I see the reaction of the Hungarian ambassador, I must say something. I mention just the first sentence: "Again there is a well-organised hysteria around Hungary." Then you're thinking, outrageously. What does the Prime Minister actually think of that? Mr President, one final point. I would also like to draw attention to the Chinese penal camps for the Uighurs. For many years now, my group, together with other political parties here in the Chamber and in fact with the entire international community, has been calling for a fact-finding mission in Xinjiang. It's been blocked by China for years. Now some 40 countries have demanded that High Commissioner Michelle Bachelet immediately have meaningful and free access to Xinjiang. My question to the Prime Minister was: did the Netherlands actually sign this declaration? And if not, why not? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u104	Thank you. At 7:45, we'll hear the answers. Until then, I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u105	It is not my intention to do night work, so I hope we will go through it briefly and pointy, unless Mr Sjoerdsma says he wants to see the sun rise here. Then I accept that. But it would be nice if we could go through it short and pointy. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u106	I think I've got about 120 answers. A lot of questions have been asked. I'm going to try not to answer a lot of them, because I think you want all of them, so I'm also trying to take things together. But it's really a lot. First of all, I liked the mention of the great Robert Schuman, apart from the fact that, as a government, we have no idea that the Holy Father has initiated the sanctification. He was, of course, a confessing Catholic. But that brings us to Robert Schuman himself, to Jean Monnet, to the Schuman plan and to the ideal of not having for a fourth time a conflict between France and Germany leading to a major European conflict. At least once that had not happened, in 1871, twice, in 1914 and 1939-1940. Of course, it is very special that I continue to find it interesting that it was the Americans who insisted on it and said: go ahead with it. You have to imagine what would happen if America today urged French to change politics in a certain direction, but here it succeeded. I'm glad those names were mentioned here today. Moreover, it is interesting to read in Drees' new biography, which has recently been published and is highly recommended, how close we were to the idea of full political integration of the European Union by some parties in this Chamber in the middle of the 1950s. We were very close. It didn't happen then. Okay, let's get that in advance. A serious matter is, of course, the Hungarian question. Yesterday I had Prime Minister Zaev of North Macedonia visiting because of the Dutch-Macedonia competition. We won; you know. But I'm a little embarrassed. After all, this is a very neat, very well-trying Prime Minister, who is trying to push his country in the right direction. In the meantime, we have also said with the Chamber: we are going to start the IGC, just as we are going to do with Albania. But you're also a little embarrassed, because I'm insisting on "you have to continue with constitutional reform"; that whole story. I really do. And he thinks so, too. He also needs that pressure from that European perspective. We must keep China and Russia away from the sphere of influence of the Western Balkans. But, of course, you will get a question about what is really going on with Hungary. I said: the last time I checked it, that country was already a member of the European Union, but, admittedly, the question is whether this would happen again at the moment if we had accession negotiations with Hungary. The fact that this is happening within Europe is, of course, fierce, also because, frankly, it goes beyond sovereignty. This affects young people in Hungary, whether they are homosexual, lhbti or heterosexual. We are not all about that, but it is about young people who simply focus on life and how they stand in society that do not feel that they live in a free country. There was just a very nice interview on the RTL website with a Hungarian young woman who, I thought, was at a demonstration in Amsterdam yesterday. You'll be very proud of our little country when you hear her say: what a free and inclusive society it is. Well, you can say a lot about that, too. We have a lot of discussions here, but compared to Hungary? Yes. So I think that is very serious. We were all able to read that letter from the Hungarian ambassador. I'm gonna leave that one for what it is. Then I'll get straight to the business points. What can you do about it? If you take the three instruments, that is the MFF legal instrument, Article 7 and the Commission that initiates proceedings, I believe that the procedure at the Court is by far the most promising one. Why? Because, quite honestly, it is only a question of whether the MFF legal instrument is the most effective in this case, regardless of the point of the flash pole or not, even if it is fully functional. Why is that? Because this instrument at its core is linked to whether a country meets the requirements required to get money from the MFF, from the RRF. This has to do with the independent judiciary and so on. This goes on. This really affects concrete legislation. I believe that the Article 7 procedure will be more effective. But it is not effective either, because of course this is a very strange procedure, whereby at the end of the journey one other country can veto. Well, we know Poland will, so nothing will happen. It is therefore a good thing that the Commission has now started this procedure, by asking questions to Hungary - what is going on here? In the light of the above, the Commission has decided to initiate proceedings before the Court of Justice. We will insist that they continue to do so. The question was also asked to set the rule of law standard on the European Council agenda. That's what we do. The Netherlands is very much in the process of putting it on the European agenda and keeping it on it, especially when it comes to Hungary. I do not think it makes sense to ask every European Council whether there is anything left on the rule of law. Well, then it's gonna be one of those more-than-the-table things. But once it is discussed, the Netherlands is very active in putting it on the agenda, whether it is Poland or Hungary. Also this afternoon at the RAZ, the General Affairs Council, the General Affairs Council, by Sigrid Kaag, Minister of Foreign Affairs. We will do it at the European Council this week. In the meantime, I have asked the President to raise this issue more often in the near future. Again, that doesn't necessarily have to happen every time, but it does if it's only a little relevant. A tricky question: what do you do with competitions? The cabinet hasn't figured that out yet. We have the motion on Qatar. We said "we'll cross that bridge when we come to it," because for now we're not qualified for Qatar; I don't believe anyone anymore. What would you do? My latest information is................................................................................................................................................................ That's not because it's in Budapest, but it's just not in the agenda. What if it did? I think it's a dilemma. Why is it a dilemma? Because you can look at it in two ways. It is a visit to Hungary, you might say, and that is not desirable now. You can also say: it is a visit to our athletes and should you burden our athletes with that? Again, it's not a cabinet position. Let me put the dilemma to you. We shall come back to that in connection with the Qatar motion. Hopefully that will be topical for once, because then it went well with the qualification for the World Cup 2022. But I find it difficult to say that honestly, because the next step is to tell the footballers or other athletes not to go. Eventually that leads to boycotts of competitions. Maybe you shouldn't, my thought would be now. This does not affect the seriousness of the situation in Budapest. I will look very quickly at whether I am wrong about Hungary which was asked, because there were a lot of questions about it. I think I have included most of the questions in this answer. All instruments: yes, we do. There was, of course, Mr Sjoerdsma's question about that flash pole. We talked about that last week. It's very simple. If the compromise had not been reached in December, and this was the maximum compromise, then we would have had no MFF, no RRF or the rule of law instrument. I agree with Sjoerdsma that it is absolutely not what you want, but I assure him that in that European Council, where I was reasonably alone, it was by far the only thing we could achieve. Namely: the flash pole is on, everything is recorded, it will be acted on later, but first the Court case. Again, if we wanted to get out of there completely clean hands, there would have been no MFK. Then it was blocked. Of course, that would have caused another whole other crisis. That remains difficult, so I stand for that compromise, but it is not going to be beautiful at all. Mr President, that is what I think about Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u107	Then that was the block of Hungary. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u108	I have two questions. Let's talk about football first. It's a good thing the Prime Minister says they're hesitant, if I understand him correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u110	I find the argument that we are then failing the footballers doubtful, because it might well be that the footballers say: it is perfectly logical that we should not send an official delegation, not a King or a cabinet, to Budapest now. I also noticed that the footballers have now decided to wear a OneLove band, out of solidarity. If the Prime Minister leaves this open, we still run the risk of having someone in the cabinet on Sunday. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u111	I checked. No one's going. Not because it's in Budapest, but because it's just not foreseen. But I do agree, actually. I can see that, too. It's not like I'm saying it's an argument that you have to go because of the athletes. I think it's a trade-off. We need to have that discussion again. I myself am, I see, reluctant in the answer to the question: are you going to the country or are you going to the athletes? I agree. If the athletes themselves would say "dude, stay away"... well, anyway, those athletes aren't usually waiting for bobos. They have other things on their mind. But suppose they would consider it a support of their work there and you wouldn't go. Then you would also interpret that if you say: yes, but you are going to play sports there as footballers, so you are actually making dirty hands. Fortunately, we are not saying that either, I know, but I think it is a dilemma. I'm telling you the truth. But we also need to have this discussion in the Cabinet, and with the Chamber, without a doubt. I didn't figure that out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u112	I think the Prime Minister is getting away with it a little too easily. Now he says, "We just don't have any plans to go there." Then it's not a political statement either. I think it is now legitimate to show Orbán: dear friend, we are not going to your party in Budapest right now. That's what I'm talking about. My other question concerns the possibility for Member States to refer another Member State to the Court. This possibility has already been asked for as a result of Poland. That was not implemented at the time, because there was no support for it in other Member States. On that point, I said in my first term that there is a new situation. This law is in Hungary. Could it be another way, I ask the Prime Minister, as a Member State, not as a European Commission, to look at what is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u113	Yes, the Treaty does indeed offer the very rare possibility of initiating an inter-group procedure against a Member State instead of the Commission, but it will only come into view if the Commission does not intervene in a particular case. Then it's possible. But she has now asked Hungary what the situation is. So that seems to be the open way to a case. Then you cannot do it as a Member State. Suppose that comes out of it that everything is wrong and then leaves the Commission further behind, then you could do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u114	Also in the previous debate, the Prime Minister said that he had negotiated in December, that there was a flash, that no fines were being paid and that we should just accept it as it is. I think these fines were about speeding offences, but I would like to remind the Prime Minister that much has happened since December. Radio has been taken out of the air, universities and cultural institutions have been brought under state control, the lhbti legislation has been adopted. I would just like to mention three examples of the last three months. I would say that the situation has changed a little. It's not a car that drives too fast. It's a car that's deliberately driving other cars off the road. If the Prime Minister really wants to wait until 2023, then that Court ruling is OK until there is room for action?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u115	This gives the impression that I welcome the compromise. The point is, no, not me, we've been looking at the pain limit. If we'd gone further, that's my estimate. We should have vetoed it. We would have had no budget, no recovery instrument, and no instrument of the rule of law. So the point is, this was the maximum reachable. This was really the maximum reachable. That's my political appraisal. If Mr. Sjoerdsma says "you shouldn't have," you can. I think there's a lot to say for it, too. You could argue that you should have said: then we go to the one-twelve procedure. The 750-billion-dollar pot would have been gone anyway. Then perhaps you could have followed the normal multiannual budget by one twelfth. That's right. But I didn't make that choice, because I also found the Recovery and Resilience Facility of great importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u116	But that brings me to something I said in the first term. You're giving away something that doesn't belong to the Prime Minister. You're giving away something that's not for the Prime Minister to give away. The Prime Minister says, "I made that deal like this." He's explained that before. I'm asking him something else now. We all see that Hungary is radicalising. We see that in the three, four, five months after that deal, real measures have been taken, which this Prime Minister, too, says: that is terrible. "Horrible." Those are words that the Prime Minister does not often take in his mouth. I ask him: is he going to keep up this story for another two years until the decision of 2023, knowing that there will be elections where Mr Orbán is going to give gifts to his constituents with Dutch taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u117	So Mr Sjoerdsma is actually saying: you should have blocked that. I think that is a very defensive position, but we would now be in the 'one-twelfth' procedure. We would have had no RRF and no instrument of the rule of law. By the way, I would like to add that the instrument of the rule of law which has now been incorporated into that regulation did not help us in this matter either. The rule of law instrument would not have been in place in this case, because it is simply a question of whether a country has sufficient legal guarantees as regards the use of Union money. So you talk about independent judiciary, supervision, etc., not about lhbti legislation, not necessarily about independent press. Maybe you can still put that underneath, but I don't think a law like this would be covered. You'd have ended up on a court case anyway. That's a choice I didn't make, but I think I can defend it. We could have said: it is so important; we let it crash. But you wouldn't have had a recovery fund right now. We are now seeing how important the Recovery Fund is to prevent the distortion of growth in Europe. So what you have now is that all times when a country doesn't comply with the agreements are committed. The Commission will now speed up the preparation of the guidelines. The Court has said that it should also deal with the case as soon as possible. 2023 is a long way from me. I can't guarantee it's sooner. I have also replied to what we expect on Thursday, but the Court does so independently. These are the choices, but it is not without consequences, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma. If he had sat in my chair and said that that is not enough, he would say here: I would have vetted. We could, but then we would have been alone as the Netherlands, on our own. It could have been. We would have stopped the fund for the whole of the European Union. He'll have to be honest about that. He won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u118	The Prime Minister is using his first interruption towards Parliament, I believe. This is not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u119	But it's a discussion, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u120	I have asked the Prime Minister a very clear question, and I am controlling the Prime Minister; the Prime Minister is not controlling me. My question was whether the Prime Minister will maintain over the next two years that the deal he has made will stand, even though Hungary is slipping at a rapid pace, even though European taxpayers' money is being distributed to the tens of thousands, to the hundreds of thousands, in order to achieve the re-election of Orbán. Or is it conceivable, let me ask the Prime Minister this way; perhaps then there will be movement, as the cabinet and other countries call it again in today's declaration, that all possible means can be used, including this rule of law mechanism? Is it conceivable that, if the situation continues to slip, the Prime Minister will change his mind and say: we have that Recovery Fund now, but that compromise is no longer justifiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u121	No, I'm up for the deal. I didn't close it, by the way. I was pretty much the only one in Europe who still objected. The rest was long ago agreed, also because what is happening now with this gay legislation in Hungary, that type of intervention from the Hungarian government, is not covered by the rule of law mechanism in the RRF or in the MFF. That's one. Two. It would have been completely gone if you hadn't. So I think it's very exalted, I think it's morally wonderful what Mr Sjoerdsma says, but it's not practical. I think if you make an appointment, that's what you stand for. I stand for that, too. I think what is happening in Hungary is wrong. We have other tools to deal with that. That is what the Commission is doing. If necessary, we are going to file a state complaint ourselves if the Commission fails to do so. I do not have any reason to accept that, but Hungary is being treated hard now, I expect. Otherwise, we will use all the means to do so. That is separate from the agreement at the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u122	On this last point, I have the question: how much time does the cabinet intend to grant to the Commission? I would also like to return to the discussion which the Prime Minister had with Mr Van Dijk on sportsmen and women. I think it is very nice that the team has decided that Wijnaldum is going to wear a certain leadership band, just after UEFA has already tried to smother another issue at this point. Should I conclude from the cabinet's position that the cabinet does not yet want to take a position when it comes to whether or not to send a delegation to Budapest? Or is the cabinet prepared to consult with the team in similar situations in the future to ask: "What do you think? Prime Minister Rutte fears escalation."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u123	I think that's a very good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u124	At least it would be wise to take that step first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u125	Yeah, I think that's very sensible. I think you should definitely discuss that with athletes. If you don't go, you don't want the athletes to think, "Are we morally less? Because the cabinet isn't coming and we're gonna work out." I really think you should try to separate sports and politics. Think of the 1980 Olympics. We've seen all these examples. That is extremely unfortunate, and you are failing to do so for generations of athletes. In the end, it is often political decisions where the Games or those football matches take place. Don't bother the athletes with that. But I think what Mr Van der Lee says is sensible. If you stand as a cabinet for that choice, then you should also discuss it with the athletes, in the sense of: "We think we should stay away. Know it's not a criticism of you, but we just don't want to be seen there right now. We do not think that is appropriate, because that seems to support such a regime." I think it's very sensible if you discuss that with them. It's just that that's not the time for Sunday. We didn't discuss it in the cabinet either, so I can't give a position on behalf of the cabinet here. I'm just saying, in general terms, it's very easy to say now that I'm all for it; then you're not going. I'm just sketching the dilemma. I think what Mr Van der Lee says is rather clever. That's a dilemma you could also discuss with the athletes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u126	I welcome that, especially since the fight against discrimination and racism is often a core message from many athletes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u127	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u128	Is the Prime Minister coming back to Baku? Because that also affects sport and human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u129	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u130	We'll do Baku later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u131	Yeah, we'll do Baku later. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u132	I actually wanted to ask a question on that point, more generally, about the use of a political statement on sporting events. A political statement must be made by politicians and not primarily by athletes. They can make their own decision. They can make choices in that and they will do so next Sunday. That is fine, but we are talking about our own responsibility and the cabinet is about its own responsibility. The Prime Minister says: I would very much like to let the athletes know that we stand next to them and sympathize with them. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this can be understood quite differently by the country that visits the cabinet members and government representatives, in the sense of: look at us being normal, look at us as part of a global family, in which we can get away with the behavior we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u133	That's part of the dilemma. I think it is a real dilemma, because I have always struggled with the fact that we mix sports and politics too much. Here it is inevitable, because members of the cabinet are politicians. The King is not a politician, but as head of the state, of course, he is our highest representative. So it's inevitable that you have to relate to that problem. I think it's a dilemma. I don't think it's so crazy to discuss that with the athletes and ask: what do you think? You don't want the athletes to think: now the government remains very conscious... As it happens, it's not on the agenda for Sunday, so it doesn't play. But let's say you're deliberately canceling something. Then the athletes might think: are we morally less because we are going? I wouldn't want that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u134	I can very well imagine that the cabinet makes its own decision and that a sports association and athletes themselves have to make their own decision. You can share information, but everyone is about their own responsibility. The Prime Minister already mentioned Qatar. The Chamber ruled on that. I agree, because what is happening there is really beyond any line of morality. I find it very difficult to imagine that representatives of our people, our country and our government are celebrating on the graves of thousands of migrant workers, to put it plastically. But closer, Baku. I have asked questions about this, as have Mr Van der Lee and others. If war crimes have just taken place there, if the law of war is violated and prisoners of war are held, then going to such a contest is a push in the back of a regime that says: we can get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u135	I think it's too easy. I respect it completely, but I find it too easy, because what do you say to the athletes who do? It may be a matter of feeling. You can't disconnect that. So I think Van der Lee has a point: you actually need to discuss it with each other. In my opinion, the conclusion could be: if you go, then we totally understand, because you can't do anything about where the stadium is and where you're playing, but we're not going, because we see that as too much support from political ministers of a wrong regime. That's a very real consideration, but then you discuss it with each other. But the last thing I want is this athlete to think: the government is not going, we are going, so we are apparently less in our morality. I'd think that was really wrong. So that really requires subtlety and weighing. As far as Qatar is concerned, that was the Karabulut motion, so I say from my point of view: if it is ever to be discussed, hopefully we are going to establish a position as a cabinet. So I cannot give a position on this on behalf of the Council of Ministers now other than what will be the dilemma in my head in that discussion. That can end very well in: don't go. I'd say that's perfectly justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u136	Very briefly. I'm fine with that consultation being sought or the conversation with the athletes being sought. I can understand that very well. I can also understand that it is then communicated: we make our own assessment. But the cabinet can still make its own decision again: with explanation towards athletes knowing that going there can also be the pendulums at a very wrong party. What I want to give to the cabinet, even in the short term towards Baku: please think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u137	I hope that we will be faced with that question, because then the eighth finale will seem to have ended well. I agree that you should definitely think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u138	In any case, I am very happy to hear from the Prime Minister again today how he is expressing his opposition to this anti-gay legislation in Hungary. He's done the same thing in the past. I'm glad the whole cabinet is doing that again today. The Prime Minister will see Mr Orbán in Brussels on Thursday and Friday. Do you intend to hand that over to him personally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u139	Sure. To him, but I also intended to bring it into the meeting. I also spoke about this today with Alexander de Croo, who was visiting this afternoon and who fully agrees with that. I assume that we are very much in agreement on this. The question is, how do you do that and where do you do it? This will, by the way, be a great victory for Orbán. So if we bring that up, he will see it as a great victory. It will only make him more popular in Hungary, because he uses that in his national propaganda, of course, as: you see, the usurping Europe is interfering with our legislation again. That was also said here by a few parties. Well, that's just the way it is. I don't think that's a reason not to, but that's the effect. My expectation is that it will not change anything in Hungary, but at least I hope that a few people in that society, who are currently feeling unsafe to be who they are and to live life the way they want to live, will know that they are not alone. It's the least we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u140	I totally agree with the Prime Minister. I think it is extremely important for the Ihbti community in Hungary to hear your words, to hear the words of the whole of the European Union and also today the statement by other Member States. I have another question about the funds. I understand that the Prime Minister says that the new rule of law mechanism cannot be deployed. That rule of law mechanism was not there when Poland already introduced lhbti-free zones. At that time, no infringement proceedings were initiated at the Court, no new Article 7 procedure was initiated and the rule of law procedure was not yet in place, but the Commission still stopped targeted funds. Does the Prime Minister think that specific funds can now be stopped by the Commission because of this new legislation in Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u141	Yes, earlier the European Commission decided not to grant those twinning applications from six Polish municipalities which had declared an Ihbti-free zone. We support the Commission's decision. Now the Commission has taken a much more far-reaching position by asking these questions, which is similar to 'the oppaign to'. We shall, of course, urge the Commission to do so. I do not think it is necessary, because I think they are very motivated to continue with this, but if it were to fail in terms of energy to continue with it, we would still have the alternative of our own procedure. That's exceptional, but it's possible. And then, of course, the Commission would still be open to taking this type of bilateral arrangement, at least between the Commission and Member States, in the financial sense. Of course, they're lighter in character than what they're doing right now. What's actually going on... It's in English; sorry, I don't have the Dutch translation right now. What is at issue is simply Article 1 of the founding treaty, our founding Treaty. This concerns "respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, quality, rule of law, respect for human rights, including belonging to minorities" et cetera. This is a very essential article, which actually says: it is not a trading block of all kinds of countries that happen to share a financial interest, a currency and a trading block. No, it's also a community of values. There was my pain yesterday to Zaev, the Prime Minister of Macedonia. I thought, "Oh, my gosh, that man is doing his best to get that land on its feet." Of course, he had to do some really exciting things there. He was threatened in 2015-2017. That country is now ready to open the IGC. Yeah, Bulgaria's still bugged about something, but hopefully it's gonna happen soon. And then I have to explain what's really going on with Hungary. You're really ashamed of yourself on the jaws. That's with him. Even worse, of course, it is for the people who demonstrated yesterday and said: we just want to be who we are. That's very fundamental, isn't it? It's 2021, guys! It's not something very strange we ask, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u142	Actually, I'd like to move on to the next block, Mr. Van der Lee. So can you be very brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u143	Yeah, I made a classic mistake asking a question and then one more. I shall come back to the question I briefly mentioned. How much time are we going to give the Commission to go through this sturdy, heavy procedure? I don't need a hard date, but can the Prime Minister give us an indication of the time period that we need to take into account? And when is the Netherlands going to step up the pressure or perhaps consider that we should only press charges ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u144	I would ask you to look at whether we have any influence on this and whether there are fixed time-limits for this. I'll come back to that in the second term. It'll be picked up by your mike. Then maybe a little faster to a few other things. We can now talk endlessly about migration, but frankly, this European Council is not going to achieve any breakthrough there. This has come on the agenda because of Italy. I get that. Italy currently has less secondary migration than the Netherlands, but I think this has been put on the agenda by the Italian Government for political reasons. I understand that she can broadly agree with draft conclusions, but there is really nothing in them. Why is that? Of course, because this subject has been stuck for years. I'll get to the questions. I'm gonna put them right through each other. These are all kinds of different questions, but they're all about migration. Of course, we have often talked about the pushbacks in Greece. We share the concerns about this. Action at the border must always be in line with international laws and regulations. The European Commission is following this communication. It is up to her as guardian of the treaties to act on it as well. In my opinion, she does the same. It really is a very fundamental point. In Greece, too, the accusations are being considered seriously. The Greek Ombudsman has launched an inquiry. The Greek Supreme Court has called for an investigation. A motion by Mr Kuik/Van der Werf was adopted, and Mrs Broekers, the Secretary of State, also expressed concern about this during her visit to Greece last week. Then there is, of course, the question of which third countries are the subject of a migration package. We have also talked about this very often. We'll bet on that. It is a selection of priority countries in focus regions. Think of North Africa, sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and the Western Balkans. At the moment that is still very rudimentary. Actually, there's nothing outside of Turkey yet. You have to use all the instruments for that, but that is very slow. Unfortunately, there is no positive news there either. This is, of course, also about Mrs Kamminga's point: how do you use the instruments in a coordinated manner across the whole range? That's OS, trade, visas. Of course, Europe has its power and there are national OS spendings. Specific resources have been made available for migration cooperation under the new MFF. About 10% of the NDICI funds go there. Those resources are being mainstreamed on this point. The visa code is part of the toolbox. So we're all gonna have to bet on that, and we're gonna have to focus on that. The fact that Turkey succeeded was, in my opinion, a combination of the Commission and two Member States: the Netherlands, which was then the holder of the rotating Presidency of the Council, and Germany because of the Syrian crisis in 2015-2016. I have often insisted: let us do this again in pairs under the guidance of the Commission. But it's not coming off the ground. I think that also has to do with the fact that those numbers are not bad enough again. At some point it's bad again and everyone's squeaking. The same applies to the partnership with third countries, which has also been asked a question. Of course, we are seeking an integrated approach, and I would like to say this to Mr Sjoerdsma, who asked for it. This means promoting legal migration routes, which can only be done within existing frameworks and only if we really use the broad strategic instruments. I am not in favour, nor is the cabinet, of saying here to Italy 'we are in solidarity, we are taking over people', whereas we now have more secondary migration than the Italians themselves. Well, it does start with the fact that they're going to register there. A question has rightly been asked about Syrian refugees. The right to asylum is, as you know, firmly enshrined in European legislation and regulations. Frankly, the acceptance of Syrian refugees is also above 90%. I also answered the terrible reports about those pushbacks. Nor am I in favour of participating in the Malta Declaration. Those are ad hoc solutions. The cabinet doesn't think it's wise to take part. We've talked about this before. How much money is being spent? I already mentioned the 10% from the NDICI funds. For the period 2021-2027 you talk about a small 8 billion. This also offers scope for concluding these partnerships with third countries in the coming years. In addition, there is, of course, more limited funding available for migration from other financial instruments, such as the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the pre-access support instrument. I agree with Van der Plas that there are, of course, many reasons why irregular migration is taking place. This can also be about food supply problems. It is also about poverty, conflict, terror, climate change and population growth. All these cases are connected. We see it, of course, particularly in West Africa, the Sahel, the Horn of Africa, the Middle East and North Africa. The negative effects of climate change can also further put pressure on water and food supply. It has also been part of Mrs Kaag's entire BHOS agenda in recent years to work on it. This is also the answer to Mr Dassen's question. That even, well, "even" about migration. Honestly, it's a total standstill. Nothing new, really. That's the brief summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u145	Yeah, you took a lot of time to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u146	Yeah, because there were a lot of questions about this stand still. We're gonna see the same thing tomorrow at the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u147	Well, that's another interesting phrase!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u148	Yeah, tell me more about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u149	So that debate tomorrow is actually unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u150	Well, no, but... you can talk for a long time about something that doesn't have any progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u151	Yeah, no, exactly. Standstill, nothing new under the sun when it comes to migration. That may be so, but that is very sad, because there is a lot going on at the borders. And then solutions are offered, such as the Malta solution, with European asylum centres, which will allow you to work towards a fair distribution of people entitled to asylum, and the Prime Minister says just as quickly: yes, we are not in favour of that because that is an ad hoc solution. Conclusion: there are no ad hoc solutions and there are no sustainable solutions, so there is a total standstill. You're just gonna let everything happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u152	You need to get the external dimension in order first. That's crucial. And that includes border control. As long as in countries like Italy the border control is not in order and people come in there, walk through to the Netherlands and report here... Yes, sorry, we have a really big problem with that. That is also going to put pressure on Schengen in the end. We've talked about that before here. Can you continue with Schengen? Of course, we do not want to stop with Schengen, but if those numbers are too high, it will raise fundamental questions about the future of the Schengen area. I mention the ideas about a mini-Schengen that have lived before. The French are watching that, and we're watching that. It's not the issue right now, but if the external borders are porous, you'll get there. And what I do not want to touch is porous external borders, on which countries that do not register but therefore experience some migratory pressure, say: that is actually too much; can you help? Yeah, sorry, we got more here. The Netherlands is, of course, absolutely a country that has to pay for this migratory pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u153	But I don't think it's that bad with the porous external borders. Look at Croatia and Greece, where the refugees arriving are literally pushed back and struck back with a lot of violence. These are really unacceptable practices. The Prime Minister rightly said that it must really be in line with European values; there they are again. Then you'll grant anyone who knocks here a fair procedure. That's the least of it. So what is the Prime Minister going to say, for example at this euro summit, to Greece and Croatia, which are clearly guilty of illegal practices that prevent migrants from having a fair procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u154	I've been talking about those pushbacks. That is a serious matter. But that is what the Greek Government itself is doing. I have already said that the Ombudsman, the Supreme Court in Greece and the Commission are also working on this. Those are the first steps, because they have to determine what is going on. We cannot do this on our own. I think I should be careful. We also have to make sure that everyone remains stable in such a meeting. The large flows via the Mediterranean, and certainly the Middle Mediterranean route, are of course via Italy. It's been going on for years. A very large proportion of these illegal migrants find work in the agricultural sector in southern Italy and are absorbed in that community. But a whole part of it is now moving on as well. A large proportion of migrants reach the Netherlands as well. These are very often migrant workers who are not really supposed to be here. That is why you really need tight border controls, where people at the border are told that they are eligible for asylum, because they come from Syria or from another country where terrible things are going on. Or they come from a country in Africa where things are going very badly economically. Then they have to hear: sorry, that's not an argument for an asylum application, so you have to go back. That's the way it should be. If there is too much pressure from real asylum seekers, I am also in favour of a solidarity redistribution mechanism. But then you have to be sure that the Netherlands will not be caught twice, apart from the redistribution mechanism: both through the redistribution mechanism and through what is already reported here in Ter Apel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly. I agree with the point that, of course, you have to make it manageable and controllable. It's not that now. But the consequence is that a Syrian refugee who is now going to Greece via Turkey, for example, really does not stand a chance of a fair procedure. And if he gets to Lesbos, he's gonna sit there for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u156	He doesn't have to go to Lesbos either. He has to stay in Turkey. That's the deal with Turkey. He doesn't have to go to Lesbos at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u157	Yeah, but there's not gonna be any of that. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u158	Yes, I do. Turkey is doing very well. Turkey captures 3 million Syrian refugees. 3 million! Of these, 600,000 people are taken care of in a camp and the rest in southern Turkey, in the South Turk community. Turkey is doing an awful lot about that. Of the 22 million Syrians, 11 million are no longer home. Of these, a very large part, approximately 5 million, is located outside Syria. But most of them are in Turkey. Turkey is doing a huge job. The deal was you're not going to Lesbos anymore, but you're staying in Turkey and being taken care of there. We co-finance that. That is, of course, the Azmani plan. That works there: shelter in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u159	Well, the question is how many migrants who did arrive in Lesbos have returned to Turkey. That's question one. Question two is: how many refugees from Turkey have finally gone to Europe? Because that was also part of the Turkey declaration. Those are minimal numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u160	The deal is as follows: when you arrive at Lesbos, Greece must have the procedures in order. Then, for every person who goes back, we get someone from a Turkish camp, so that Turkey doesn't get any more migratory pressure from the fact that people return. That's someone other than the one who made the crossing. It makes it unattractive to make that switch. That is also very dangerous, because you have to go to sea in shaky boats. In this way, Turkey has no more migratory pressure than it already has to a very heavy degree. That's not working, that's correct. But what it starts with is, of course, that as a Syrian refugee, you should not go to sea at all. You just have to stay in Turkey, where you get shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u161	We're going to see Mr. Amhaouch. Mr. Van Dijk, very briefly, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u162	Very briefly. What does our Prime Minister think we should do with those people who've been stuck on Lesbos for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u163	That is a very different issue. We've offered all the help we can. Greece must settle those procedures. Those who have the right to stay in the European Union can stay. For the majority of these refugees, you are going back to Turkey. And Turkey's picking them up. At least, it would be weird if it didn't. But it's Greece. This isn't Turkey. We'll be on Turkey in a minute. You may have a lot of criticism about that, but in itself Turkey has properly implemented the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u164	We are now talking about migration, but mainly as a symptom control. I was triggered by the Prime Minister when he answered Mrs van der Plas' questions about trade, agro-food and trade, with which we can help countries. Then he closed with this stand still. I have a concern about that. I hope the Prime Minister can take that concern away. Indeed, what are Europe's plans for Africa as an equal trading driver and in terms of economic developments, precisely to tackle some of these root causes and create jobs? Of course we would like to do that with Dutch knowledge. I hope that's not standstill. Can the Prime Minister take away some concerns and show some perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u165	That's the easiest part, indeed, because that's possible. We just have our development tools. You can also use them to solve all these issues that you and Mrs van der Plas are naming, or at least to manage them somewhat, so that they do not lead to migratory pressures. To be honest, that is not politically controversial. What is politically controversial is the setting up of agreements in those countries, which they have also done in Turkey, so that people from the region can be received in such a country and not come to Europe. Then you make such a country with a country that's actually the heart of the Azmani deal about people temporarily bringing them back to the shelter in the region. Then you can give them an education and a piece of work experience here and bring others here later. In this way, the migratory pressure remains manageable. That is, of course, also the idea behind the Turkey deal, behind the agreements between Turkey and the European Union. That is again more controversial, because countries must cooperate in this. This also requires the coordinated use of the whole of the Union's instruments. That's very mediocre. Turkey has succeeded, but nowhere else. It's gonna be a lot harder when you get closer to home, at our own external border. It is rightly noted that there are very serious reports about the pushbacks. I can't determine that right now. That needs to be figured out. At the same time, however, we see that there are also countries where the external borders are simply not maintained and where people can go through. As long as that is the case, the matter remains porous and you cannot come up with solidarity-based redistribution mechanisms, because that cannot be done to the Netherlands' society. The Netherlands really is an arrival country for a lot of people; they want to come here. We can receive refugees who are really on the run, in limited numbers, because it must all remain manageable. If you also get a lot of economic migrants... Yeah, you know, we're seeing the nuisance that Moroccans cause coming here as an economic migrant. They have to go back to Morocco. And you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u166	I actually want to go one step further. 'Cause the prime minister brought up OS again. As a foreign trade committee, with former colleague Weverling, we have just talked about Africa's strategy. We need to ensure that we not only give OS resources to Africa, but that we also simply trade and ensure economic developments, precisely to provide a perspective for the young people who like to get on those boats. I would like the Prime Minister to raise this issue in Europe too, because those 55 countries in Africa do not all want an OS infusion. They want to trade and offer perspective. Then maybe we can keep some of those people there, but in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u167	In my view, it is roughly a three-part process of sometimes classical development cooperation, of trade and sometimes also of bringing stability and supporting it in the military sense. Look at what the French are doing in Mauritania, Chad, Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso, so in the G5 Sahel. The Netherlands has, of course, contributed to Mali. Maybe we should do more there in the future. That's part of it. I think you have to act in all three areas to bring stability, but that certainly includes trade. Minister Kaag, of course, does. The whole cabinet supports that. Wherever I can, I support it. I'm in Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire, Mali and Nigeria... we're going everywhere to help. That's not just the classic OS relationship. That's exactly what this is. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u168	For the root causes of migration, of course, we need to look beyond the list that the Prime Minister just mentioned. One of the points on which I would like a reflection from the Prime Minister is the tax treaties we have with developing countries. Thanks to these tax treaties, many companies have the opportunity not to pay off money they should be paying there, because they can shut it down through the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u169	I don't have the expertise for that right now. I didn't prepare that. I don't think it was in the questions for the first round either. I'm all-knowing, but I've got this... I think this could be a point, but maybe this should be in a debate with File Letter or Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u170	Clear. Mrs. Kamminga still, and then we go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u171	I have one more question. Actually, it's just a subtlety. The Prime Minister said in his speech: we made progress on this Turkey deal last time because we started working in couples, but I do not think the numbers are high enough yet. I do not see that as a matter of urgency. I am new to this house and also to the EU dossier, but I do realize that the pace of the EU is often somewhat slower than we would like in the Chamber. That may be so, but I would argue that the Prime Minister, even if he is there for ten years, does not get too used to that pace and does see what we can do to speed it up. 'Cause I think it's important. We have also tabled the Becker motion on that crisis mechanism. If it is true that we have to wait until the numbers are there, then it becomes all the more important, but I would like to sit in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u172	Once, but my observation is that this really is felt in the Netherlands and to some extent in Denmark and Sweden, but it does stop there. Other countries will not take action until it really gets back on track, I see. The French are also very sensitive to it, to be honest. I think Macron is very far away in his thinking about mini-Schengen and solutions to that. That's what I support him in when things go wrong again. But the urgency is really felt only when the numbers rise. We're not gonna be able to do that on our own. I'd love to, but there's the problem. I saw it in 2015, when it started with Syria. Or no, it started with North Africa and then with the Syrian refugee crisis. That has to be done before everyone gets back together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u173	Then there's another follow-up question. Thank you for that. The French presidency is about to be held. Could they take the lead again, as the Netherlands did with the Turkey deal a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u174	Yes. I must honestly say that I find President Macron very proactive on this point. He's also in my own political family, so that might help. He is extremely critical of the functioning of Schengen. I am. He is also very critical of the functioning of solidarity in Europe in order to properly control those external borders. I'm sure that can help. In the first half... I'm sorry, when do we live now? June. Yes, in the first half of next year he will hold the rotating Presidency of the Council. That could definitely help. We shall certainly be working together on this. Migration is one of many areas, I say to the Chamber, where France and the Netherlands work very closely together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u175	A word more about the Azmani plan, or rather the second Azmani plan. I hope that the Prime Minister is also very enthusiastic about this. That is the idea of Renew Europe on how Europe should deal with migration. I ask the Prime Minister to think about this as well. How legal migration can make sure that not everyone gets on those boats and we keep it under control. If I had to frame it in VVD terms, it would be a way of getting processed asylum seekers back to the country of origin, and a way of filling vacancies in difficult sectors here but in exchange for limited labour migration from countries of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u176	I have understood this differently, because I think the risk of labour migration from countries of origin is that it also affects the countries themselves very much. Because you often bring well-educated people from those countries here. This can also be very damaging to the economies of those countries. I understand more that it is Azmani 1B and not Azmani 2, but we should invite Mr Azmani and ask him about it together; he will certainly be happy to come. Azmani 1B is that he, à la de Turkeydeal, says: I also hope that Mrs Kamminga will tell him that it has been about Azmani for half an hour; he will enjoy it. 1A is: create agreements with countries about reception in the region. Then you actually close off the whole normal route of refugees to Europe, so you send that you ideally would like to return everyone who comes here to shelter in the region. Then it's not like you're not getting any more migration here. Then you're going to get people out of that region here, quotaed, in manageable numbers and safe. They may be able to stay here, get an education here and go back, and others will come again. You can do anything with that. It is therefore not the case that the Netherlands no longer receives refugees, but then no one comes across the sea uncontrolled. That's actually Azmani 1B. But then you still talk about the real refugees. You do not talk about economic migration, because it is, of course, very damaging to Africa's economy if you start it. Also in the Netherlands we have 400,000 people on welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u177	The latter may be harsh criticism by the Prime Minister of the Azmani 1B plan, but I am not asking for a game of Azmani to be dissected here in plenary. I'm asking for something more important. I share Mrs Kamminga's urgency. I also think that, if Corona goes away, it could happen that those people who have nothing to lose will go to Europe in quite a large number from North Africa. You're gonna have to put something against that, too, something other than those boats. That can only be regular, legal migration. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to think beyond these terms as to whether that could be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u178	I really don't think so. I'm really against legal labour migration. I really don't see why we should do that if we still have so many people out of work in the Netherlands. The Syrian refugees are doing fairly well, but we can see that a lot of refugees in the Netherlands are not actively participating in the labour market and are also dependent on benefits. I think it is simply antisocial to say once again: we are going to get quite additional groups from Africa to perform functions here, which are probably well-educated and therefore unable to contribute to the construction of their own country. I really wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u179	Mr President, a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u180	No, no, we're moving on, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u181	I'll take back the word "asocial." I don't mean that Sjoerdsma is antisocial, but it's really not wise. It's really not investing in relationships with those countries. But I take back the word "asocial."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u182	Here's to it. Mrs Maeijer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a little trouble with that thing right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u184	That was my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u185	Yeah, I'm fine now. I have one more question. Last in the news was that in the last seven years, 46,000 asylum seekers who have entered the Netherlands have not been able to return to their country of origin, as agreed under the Dublin rules. It was in De Telegraaf. It seems to me to be a good example of how EU rules do not work. So my brief question was: how is the Prime Minister going to ensure that these people are returned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u186	I haven't prepared for that right now. This question was not raised in the first period either. This debate concerns the European Council of Thursday and Friday. That is not what this theme is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u187	I find that very easy, because you are dealing with all aspects of asylum and migration policy. This concerns the return to Dublin. 46,000 times that seems to have failed in the last seven years. I would very much like to receive a response from the Prime Minister to the question of how he is going to solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u188	No, I'm not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. I didn't prepare for that. That is not what this debate is about either. This debate is about the package approach to migration. All the questions that were asked touched on that. This is now about a Dutch problem, which is indeed very serious, but I cannot check the numbers mentioned and I have not prepared for it now. I don't want to go freestyle in this debate either. Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked about Frontex, but perhaps in view of the time I can also refer to all the letters that have been sent about it. The European Parliament and OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, are investigating alleged misconduct within Frontex and the possible involvement of Frontex in alleged human rights violations at EU external borders. The European Ombudsman is also investigating this. This is in response to questions put by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Van Dijk. I'm taking that off a little short, but it's been dealt with in the letter as well. Then I'll come to corona. Asked if we're gonna make the planning. That's actually Thursday's debate on corona. So I can't say more now than yes. The lessons learned have all been incorporated into it. The CoranaCheck app has been active in the Netherlands for months. I am reading those answers now, but this is really part of Thursday's debate on the last Corona letter. Maybe it can be further worked out there. Vaccinating abroad has to do with this Council. Mr Sjoerdsma pointed out that people are being vaccinated abroad by the general practitioner and not registered, and asked how these people would be able to travel. An exception route has been developed in which foreign vaccinations will be assessed. On this basis, we are looking at how EU citizens, pricked in third countries, can get a DCC. Mrs Piri's motion on patents is clear. I will also urge the Commission to work towards a solution in the WTO context. The motion calls on the cabinet to publicly support the position of US President Biden. Only, there is no position of the American President Biden. He didn't make a proposal. What is on the table in the WTO is a proposal from India and South Africa. That goes much further, by the way. There is also a constructive proposal on the table from the EU, supported by the United States. I think we will act in the spirit of that motion if we continue to work that out and always look at case by case what is most sensible. In addition, there is an initiative by the European Commission to promote local production capacities for medicines and vaccines. This was presented at the Global Health Summit at the end of May, to promote the production of vaccines and medicines in Africa, including regional production hubs, in cooperation with EU Member States and the European Investment Bank. Then about the flight bans. The RIVM and the OMT advise requested and unsolicited. Last Friday's opinion stated by the OMT that flight bans are not currently advised. Then about the travel restrictions. Member States shall decide on national measures to be taken but shall align them by means of Council recommendations. That's not a mandatory right. It is the agreement that the Member States are trying to coordinate it in the European Union. We find it very disappointing that we have not been able to reach more coherent agreements. That is why we also have bilateral contact with neighbouring countries and with the main holiday countries to see if we can take an approach. The Regulation agreed that it would have a duration of 12 months, after which, on the basis of a report to the European Parliament, an extension could be requested from Member States, only on the basis of the covid pandemic. In doing so, the extension will be submitted to the Member States themselves. They will then have to vote in favour of this extension by a majority. I say to Mr Dassen that we are very much contributing to COVAX in kind and otherwise. On the already mentioned G20 Health Summit, we announced that the Netherlands is mainly using its surplus of vaccines for donation to partner countries. This also contributes to the European Council's commitment to donate 100 million doses of vaccines this year. This will also depend on the total number of vaccines actually delivered in the Netherlands. Of course, that's always a movement. It is therefore not known how much and when the Netherlands can donate via the EU Vaccine Sharing Mechanism. From BHOS, the Netherlands has contributed 70 million to COVAX. I also agree with Mr Dassen that it is important to support developing countries in this. That is why EUR 3 billion has been donated from Europe to COVAX. That makes us the biggest donor. We are now also seeing the supply of vaccines that are not needed in the European Union. Again, that's those 100 million doses. There will still be a huge catch-up to be made. Travelling by boat between Morocco and Spain is only possible for people from Spain or people living there, I say to Mr Kuzu. There are many options by air or sea to travel to Morocco. Since 15 June, flights are again possible between Morocco and the Netherlands and many other European countries. The boat connections will be reopened; I refer to the ports of Sète, Marseille and Genoa. Of course, it is up to the countries themselves to decide what measures they are taking to reduce covid risks. Whether or not the pandemic treaty is going to happen is not yet certain. Not all countries see the need for such an internationally binding instrument. In May, it was decided to hold that special session of the World Health Assembly. That meeting will be held in November to decide on this matter. For the Netherlands, we look positively at this by increasing the follow-up of Member States with international health schemes, increasing accountability and strengthening a broad approach. But it is far from certain that this will succeed. With regard to the travel advice already mentioned, it is of course good news that travel restrictions can be scaled down. Epidemiologically, it's a lot better too. We do what can be justified. At the moment, the colour code of a number of European countries is yellow and of some even green. Dutch people can go on vacation to the countries with a yellow or green travel advice. Why don't I and others have the quarantine obligation? There are exceptions to quarantine obligations, including for a number of very diverse professions, including journalists, top athletes and people working in passenger transport and the energy sector. This applies only if they travel in the performance of their duties or travel to and from their activities. Necessary missions of members of the government and/or judicial officials or persons invited by the Dutch authorities fall within those exceptions. In addition, I do not go into town when I go to Brussels for the European Council. I'm going to the Council building, to the hotel, to the Council building and back home. And in the meantime, I'm going to the PV, too. Finally I go back to COVAX. I have actually answered Mr Kuzu's question about this in the previous questions. Those were the very different questions about corona, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u189	Very good, the cube of corona. Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u190	I think the thrust of the House's motion is very clear. The motion calls for the temporary suspension of the patents on the corona vaccines. That is why I would like to ask whether we should at least receive the elaboration of what the Prime Minister has just said, namely 'we are going to see how we work in this respect', in a letter from the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u191	Yeah, look, that motion just got passed, so the cabinet obviously still has to look into it. The only thing I thought was that it was said quite firmly: there is an American proposal. That's not what our way of seeing is. But the thrust of the motion is clear. This means that we are also calling on the Commission and the WTO to reach a solution in the patent negotiations. However, I would also like to ask the official whether a further letter of progress could deal with the motion in greater detail. Maybe that's the most practical thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u192	The Prime Minister passed it on in high-speed train. I had indeed asked the question about the closed borders between Spain and Morocco. That has nothing to do with covid. Morocco has withdrawn the entry ban. It's a diplomatic conflict. I asked the Prime Minister: is it possible to facilitate the de-escalating work between these two countries during the European summit, which will make this movement easier for Moroccans in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u193	I have to be careful where I'm going to de-escalate. I've got my hands full with formation here. I tried yesterday in my contacts with Zaev of Macedonia to help in his conflict with Bulgaria on the opening of the IGC, where Macedonia and Albania are linked for understandable reasons. So I have to make a little of my choices where I do. If I intercede everywhere, Mr Kuzu will grumble that the formation will last even longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u194	That is what my colleague Azarkan will do tomorrow, Mr President! I am reassuring the Prime Minister, but I think he should put this a little higher on his list of priorities because he will make a lot of people living in this country, with a Moroccan background and with Dutch nationality, very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u195	I understand that, but I have choices to make, too. I do not think I am putting this as high as Mr Kuzu. I think it's important and I get it, but there's only so much you can do and the Dutch influence here is limited, also because of the specific situation between the Netherlands and Morocco, but also the position of Spain-Morocco. So I do not think that we are the first to do very blessed work here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u196	Thank you to the Prime Minister for all the answers. I still have one more question. We are concerned about the delta variant, but what if there is a ypsilon variant that cannot be properly combated with the existing vaccines? Is the European Union now able to act faster and better than at the start of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u197	This is actually the key question that we discussed in our own team this afternoon for the Thursday and Friday summits, where we talk about the lessons you can draw from the pandemic so far. That is, of course, a multitude of things, from the fact that no more masks are blocked at the French-Belgian border up to and including how to coordinate European travel bans. But it is very fundamental and it has nothing to do with a transfer of powers to Europe. It is simply, as Member States together with the Commission, practical work. We failed to some extent in the first wave, March/April. Things got much better later. I am afraid to say yes to the question of whether we have done it now. It is what I want to discuss with colleagues on Thursday and Friday: how can we learn lessons from the pandemic so far, should there be a variant that breaks through the vaccine? We hope that doesn't happen; the delta variant doesn't seem to break through. But if there's a variant that does, you have to be ready. There may also be a new pandemic. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the recovery plans. Let's see. Perhaps it is good to say to Mrs Maeijer, but also to Mr Bishop, that the Recovery Fund has two components: investment and reform. It is therefore an important stimulus for recovery, but above all it is also an instrument for structural economic reforms. Absorption capacity of countries is very important here, because there is sometimes quite a lot of money going. That is also one of the criteria which the Commission is looking at. It is very important for the cabinet that we not only spend the money in a way that is effective, but above all that the money comes only if the country carries out the necessary reforms. Above all, it must ensure that the existing imbalance between northern and southern Europe, which is nevertheless of a certain size, does not become too great. Then the Union breaks. You've got to get it to take off. This is achieved by a single fund, and therefore not eurobonds, because all countries guarantee their cake point. It's a one-time thing. All the arguments why they're not eurobonds are strong. You're gonna straighten this case once. In return, Southern European countries must reform, including us; all European countries that receive money. But, of course, it goes to Spain, Greece, Portugal, Italy and France to a large extent. They need to reform so that next time, when there is another crisis, those countries will be better able to cope with such a crisis. That's the combination. It is not comparable to what the Netherlands is doing with the recovery packages. This is all money that really only goes into the economies in the longer term, and it is also being phased out. In that sense, I'm not afraid it'll lead to some kind of overheating. That is how I understood Mr Bishop: that the economy is already going well and that much more money will then be available. It addresses structural issues in the economies. That is why mainstreaming is also green; mainstreaming on ICT, on modern technology, but also on the conditions of reform. Isn't the Netherlands late for filing? Mr Segers and Mr Dassen asked for this. No. We can do that next year. In that sense, we just have that 6 billion on the shelf, so it's not lost. That is what reforms are really about. We believe that the reforms of the present cabinet are fine. I thought it was a very good cabinet. I think it's a very good cabinet. But if you are going to see exactly what is in the country-specific recommendations, I think more needs to be done to get real access to the full 6 billion. We have put on such big pants to other countries that it would be very painful if we came up with a moderate plan. But the money's there. It's not gone. We're gonna pick it up. As far as we are concerned, it is indeed a one-time thing. Mr Eppink asked for that. On Germany and Greece's recovery plans, the cabinet will inform the Chamber in writing in advance of the forthcoming Ecofin Council, because we want to look very closely at what is in the CID. These are the country analyses that are now being made by the Commission. And the margin of the European Council will also be a eurozone summit, I say to Mr Amhaouch. There is also discussion of economic developments. This is about the importance of supporting economic recovery and the importance of working towards sound public finances. We will certainly draw attention to that. I will soon have discussions with the most concerned cabinet colleagues on how we in Europe are reinvigorating the discussion on the Stability and Growth Pact. Mrs. Kamminga asked about the force field in relation to debt disposal. I very much share the concerns about ongoing debts and deficits. We are following developments very closely. At the moment, you cannot ask France or Italy to make major cuts. It is now really important that they control the crisis and start to grow again, and so reform it, so that in the longer term they come up with a higher economic growth path that ultimately reduces debt relative to the overall economy. This is also the subject of discussion at the Eurogroup and the Ecofin Council. But there is indeed cause for concern. You must imagine that if France is now at 120% and interest rates are rising 1%, France must have 1.2% economic growth to finance that higher interest rate at all. It's incredible millstones hanging around the neck. We really shouldn't underestimate that. Then the fact that Von der Leyen is crossing Europe. Yeah, she's doing her job. Mr Dassen asked about the European Court of Auditors' audit of the ECB's supervisory tasks. That's important. It is present, for example through the work of the European Court of Auditors. The ECB and the European Court of Auditors concluded an agreement in October 2019. Wopke Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, is committed at European level to further steps, such as improving the European Court of Auditors' information position in relation to the ECB's work. Finally, on this point, the question of whether the Cabinet can strengthen economic coordination, including the CDA. There is indeed room for improvement, especially in the case of the Northern European players, to which he referred in particular. I believe that coordination in The Hague is going well in the international and European economic field. We are one of the countries that is said in Brussels to have positions quickly and to be in agreement. It is extremely important that the Netherlands has an opinion in all these European discussions and can therefore influence the direction. That requires us to coordinate it properly here at the back. I think we have a clever system for this, for example in the cycle of the European Semester, the annual process of European economic policy coordination, but also, for example, in the case of a broad Dutch commitment to European industrial policy and the opportunities for digital policy. Then we will be very much with the Nordic Member States, with the Baltic Member States and the Scandinavian Member States, but also with Germany, of course. Of course, we have an excellent relationship with the Benelux countries and with France. You saw this recently when it comes to joint ideas on strengthening the internal market, European industrial policy and strengthening European competitiveness. For this type of subject, we are always one of the first to look at the Nordics, namely the Baltic countries and the Scandinavian countries, but also Germany. In many cases, the Benelux countries and France are partners with which we work intensively. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u198	Thank you for the Prime Minister's reply. I'm also trying to look at post corona and use the momentum. We've had a lot of discussion, even for corona. Then it was about what medicines or medicines we want to make in Europe. Corona has shown that we are very dependent. I'll be back on Breton, who's been here. That's the European Technology Commissioner. He's been to the Brainport region, among other things. He says: Germany, France and the Netherlands can play an important role there, also in the context of the chip shortage. Now my question to the Prime Minister is: are we going to be a little older when the Commissioner is here? Is it indeed the case that with our German, French or Scandinavian friends we put our heads together and use the momentum, before we all go on vacation again and fall back? Then the pandemic is over and nothing gets off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u199	On chip technology, there are only two countries in Europe that are proposing something, namely Belgium and the Netherlands and no other country. Think also of the IPCEI, those important projects of common European interest. The second point concerns this too. So we're really on top of it. Today we discussed in detail with the Belgian colleague how we can strengthen the cooperation between Brainport Eindhoven, Leuven and Imac, not Imac, but Imec. That is very important. That's what's happening. The companies work together very intensively. This is also important for the relationship with the United States. So there are huge opportunities. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u200	I would like to return to the beginning of the Prime Minister's speech. That was about North and South and the differences in development and prosperity. It outlined how the Recovery Fund should contribute to greater convergence: if we do not do this, it is not going well. Only, in my view, has the EU's policy, as well as the policies of its predecessors, been focused on convergence for decades. And what did we see? A growing divergence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u201	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u202	This certainly includes the enormous debts that some of the southern Member States have on their necks. Think also of the prospect of the situation in which interest is going to do something. Why should we now be confident that this package of measures will lead to convergence rather than once again to divergence when this temporary programme is over? The result is that you have to have a new recovery program. Then you're in a permanent structure that none of us want to go to. So my concerns haven't been taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u203	No, I get that. I'm not gonna take them all away either; I'm not gonna. But I've gotten a little more hopeful, and that's what's going to happen next. What ultimately determines whether a country grows? What determines whether a Western democratic economy, a liberal market economy, eventually grows above the average? The question is each time: does that country have its labour market, its pension system, its housing market and its health care systems that are a number of fundamental arrangements in order? A country like Italy has been growing downhill for years. This grows on average to less than 1% a year, for 30 years. Italy is very behind the rest of Europe. France also has too low growth compared to the rest of Europe. Germany has implemented the latest reforms under Schröder. Hartz IV is also running the risk, but of course Germany has an incredibly strong manufacturing industry, which has saved it for a very long time. The Netherlands, forced by the crisis of 2010, 2011 and 2012, has implemented far-reaching reforms and put public finances in order. You can now see that this is in combination with the recovery packages, thanks to Eric Wiebes, Wopke Hoekstra and Wouter Koolmees. That's a combination of how we designed those recovery packages... What is the underlying strength of all these arrangements? Have you implemented the necessary reforms in time? What was our point last year in the discussion on the emergency fund? We understand you can't cut back in a crisis. I can't. We also understand that there may be a time when you need to show solidarity and say: we are willing to help once. But first, you do the analysis of why we need to help. This is because reforms have been delayed in a number of other countries. That is simply a factual observation. At that time we, as the Netherlands, said: 'Let's do this. We agree with such a one-off fund, but then we want the European Commission to set as a condition for the provision of money that those countries implement the main specific recommendations of the semester I am referring to those CSRs, which are made every year." You will know that Italy, in exchange for money, must come up with a plan for pensions, for the thousands of professions that you and I cannot go into because they are not accessible, for the work of the legal system, for things that are years behind, and for the whole way in which the money market is in Italy. In France, of course, it is mainly about the pension system, but also about the labour market. Think of Spain, too. Hence the emergency brake that is in it. If it is not, the Netherlands or another country can say: sorry, we are against this tranched payment, because it has not happened. That's the idea. I think that might work. I did discuss with the Commission that we should be careful not to have all kinds of caveats and say: yes, but economic growth was a bit disappointing, so we have... No, I'm sorry, but I did deliver on these points first. I must say that until now the Commission has been able to look at all these plans in detail and seems to be on top of them and not to be content with crap. So that gives hope. It gives hope, but we won't have the certainty until later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u204	We'll have that certainty when we see it worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u205	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u206	That's clear. I almost envy the Prime Minister in his optimism, but I wonder if he's not too optimistic. Of course, for decades there have been attempts to reform the pension system in France, for example. It's always broken. What guarantee would you have that it's going to happen now? If the consequence is that the next tranche will not be made available, then I still have to see it, with a big player like France within the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u207	The country-specific recommendations were recommendations. They couldn't be enforced. The Stability and Growth Pact contained enforceable elements in the areas of those 3%, 60%, deficit and sovereign debt. But since the Deauville deal of October 2010, it has been watered down. We have seen Juncker say at one point: France and Germany are too big to comply with the Stability and Growth Pact. Yeah, it was totally broken back then. Now you've got something else. You now have a fund of money. It's a lot of money. The Commission says you'll only get it if you show us how to carry out those reforms. That's just taking the water to the doctor. Keep talking, keep talking. We've seen plans returned, one more time and one more time. To be honest, that looks... If you look at it through your eye hairs and hear the first reports of what they are doing in Portugal and what is in Greece's plan, we say: well, pooh, that seems to be going in the right direction. What you then achieve is that we agree to a one-off payment, which I think is quite justifiable, given the seriousness of the crisis, but in exchange for the agreement: we are actually going to do it once, because you are going to reform so that you can do it yourself next time. The Netherlands is now able to invest massively in the economy, because we had those reserves, the apple for thirst. Some in this room would have wanted to eat them all a few years ago. Luckily, we didn't. That apple for thirst was there and we have now spent part of it in this crisis. You're willing to let all those countries do that. Only in that crisis we couldn't say... The criticism of the Netherlands last year was of course that people thought we were saying: you get nothing and you figure it out. We never said that. We just said, if we're gonna help, we want you to show that you're reforming. Is it happening? The Netherlands has that emergency brake. It's not just us, it's everyone. You can pull that. I hope it's not necessary. Of course, it's also a bit of a poor instrument, but if it's necessary, we'll do it. I hope you don't have to. Mr President, I come to Turkey. The March European Council discussed the importance of the rule of law and human rights and its concerns. This is also reflected in the March European Council declaration. That's what I'm saying to Mrs Piri, who says it doesn't seem like right now... I haven't seen the draft conclusions myself, but they always leak out, so I assume you've seen them all a long time ago. What do we want to achieve? Let's talk about the accession negotiations. They're dead, but they're not dead. They're dead in the sense that they're still. They're not dead in the sense that they've stopped completely. The coffin of the accession negotiations is above ground, but nothing is happening. No chapters will be opened. The Netherlands is no longer in favour of these accession negotiations, but it requires unanimity to stop them. The relationship with Turkey is very important. Why? It is a large country on the eastern flank of Europe, which is a member of NATO. As the Netherlands, we must, of course, be critical of human rights and all the issues involved in the relationship with Cyprus, Greece and the situation in the eastern Mediterranean. At the same time, however, we must keep the lines with Turkey open. I had a very strong conversation with Sigrid Kaag and Ank Bijleveld with Erdogan. We spent half an hour talking at the NATO summit. We have driven the whole prison with misery, of human rights and all other things that are not right. He drove out of his jail with shit. Nineteen parliamentary groups here who only take anti-Turkey emotions. I explained to him: that is a democracy. And yet that was good. It was a good conversation anyway, because for the first time we spoke extremely open in a very long time. We said, "We're going through with this. We'll never... We'll always be honest with each other. We will say everything about what we think of each other, but we will try to keep the relationship open." We cannot leave that to Germany alone. The Netherlands must also play a role in this. There are too many Member States that say leave Turkey alone. We cannot afford that either for stability in the region. So it's difficult and it's a difficult partner, but we can't afford to say forget about it. But I can assure you that all the room motions are addressed there. What's to be done now? We need to look at how things are going at this European Council and the forthcoming Councils. The customs union has been there since the 1960s, but we want to modernise on both sides. Maybe we can take very small steps in that. I really don't know if it's gonna work. It's incremental, little steps. Then we are talking about restarting high-level dialogue, human-to-human contacts, exploratory talks on possible further modernisation of that customs union. That's gotta be reversible. So if the situation deteriorates, we stop again. This means that sanctions are always an option. So you have the positive track and the negative track, as described in the Council conclusions of, I thought, last October or September, when we discussed this for a very long time. This means that discussions on human rights and the rule of law must go hand in hand with the further development of the positive path. That's EU-Turkey. In addition, of course, we have the relationship I just outlined, the Netherlands-Turkey, in which we talk very openly. The thing about the positive trail. Again, small incremental steps. Mrs Maeijer's question was: how much money is going to go? At the request of the European Council, IPA funds for Turkey were already cut in October 2018 and a redistribution to civil society took place. So that's all going on. The new MFF also provides for the pre-access instrument, i.e. IPA, to be made available to potential candidate countries, not reserved for each country, but for each theme. I cannot therefore say exactly how much money will go to Turkey, but everything is aimed at channeling it to civil society as much as possible. I already answered the other questions when we talked about migration. I think Mr Amhaouch from the CDA on customs union has also replied. Then the financing of FRiT; that is the Facility for Refugees in Turkey. I think it is necessary for us to make available another tranche for this too. It is important that we provide Turkey with clarity about this soon. They're making, again, a huge effort. There are four million Syrian refugees in Turkey. However, we do believe that it should come from the EU budget. There's really some money left in the folds. That is not the case at this European Council, presumably. I think it's now between hooks in the conclusions, but I don't think it's something you're going to get out of now at the level of the Heads of Government. I have, I say, taken note of Mr Van Dijk's attack on HDP party office on Izmir, in which a party member died. I think we all agree that this is a terrible event. As far as we know, the bomb squad is not connected to any particular group. So we cannot make definitive statements now. The case is under investigation. The President of Turkey has now also condemned the attack. Apart from that, concerns about human rights and the rule of law in Turkey remain unabated. Again, this was also mentioned in the discussion with Erdogan last week, also at EU level. According to the Karabulut motion, the Netherlands has expressed concerns both before and behind the scenes about the pressure on elected representatives. We have joined the Borrell statement and Commissioner Várhelyi's statement and we have also brought it to the Foreign Affairs Council. We have also raised concerns in the context of the UN Human Rights Council. The one about Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u208	Was that your last block, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u209	No, I have Russia, Belarus and a few others. But we're a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u210	I understand you're looking for good ties in the sense of good neighbourliness. We're neighbors of each other. When it comes to decent humane reception of refugees, we have to deal with each other in all kinds of ways. I understand that in that dialogue, you're bringing up everything that's going on over and over again. But as long as it is in the context of possible accession to the European Union, there is great inconvenience. Then the Prime Minister can describe it in a very visual way. The coffin is already ready, but it's not all underground yet, but as long as it's in that context, there's discomfort: what exactly are we talking about? Is it not beneficial to put an end to this once and for all and say: now we are striving for an adult relationship where we address each other at an equal level on human rights, over and over again, and whatever there is to be said? Shouldn't that page be turned over once?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u211	I totally agree with that. Only, it can't be, because it requires unanimity. There isn't one. Since no new chapters are being opened, it is in fact what Mr Segers describes. In fact, everyone is now looking for dialogue on this relationship from the positive and negative points of view. In addition, we say: if things go wrong again in the eastern Mediterranean, with Cyprus or with human rights, then we are going down again. In the eastern Mediterranean it is quieter. The relationship with Greece has calmed down a bit. There are still serious concerns about Cyprus. Of course, there are still serious concerns about human rights. If those concerns take away a bit, then we can do a little more in the positive direction. In fact, we are doing what Mr Segers says, but the formal conclusion of the accession negotiations requires unanimity. There isn't one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u212	It says that we are stepping up our contacts with Turkey. At the same time, there are those great concerns about human rights, we see that officials have been fired massively, that journalists are behind bars, that there is Turkish interference in all kinds of places outside Turkey that we have great concerns about. Then there is the question of what framework that is in and for what purpose. I was talking about Europe as a value community. The Prime Minister talked about it himself. Do we then maintain our values, even in relation to Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u213	Sure. That is not, therefore, in the context of the accession negotiations. This is all in the context of the relationship between the European Union and Turkey. That is why there is also that positive and negative trail. The situation in Cyprus, Greece, the eastern Mediterranean and human rights: all these things are important. At the same time, I am one of those in the European Council who, together with the Germans and others, is calling for dialogue to be kept open. It's too important a country with almost 100 million people, east flank, NATO member, to say hello. Not that Mr Segers is arguing for that, but you could say: it is so serious; we stop. We can't afford that. Just like Russia won't leave if we don't have contact with it anymore. That stays there, too. I'll be right there to talk about that. It's different from Russia, of course, thank God. I do not want to throw Turkey and Russia into one heap, not at all. In Turkey there are quite different things to do, but it is important that we continue to seek dialogue with these great partners and with Turkey as a NATO member, but from that adult relationship. Of course, very little is happening at the moment. Apart from economic cooperation and trade contacts, the Netherlands is the largest investor in Turkey, and little is happening bilaterally and between the European Union and Turkey. You may now be able to see if you can take some steps in the customs union, but that will be very careful. Those talks will be used to continue talking about human rights. Let's say the tensions are re-emerging in the eastern Mediterranean. My colleague from Greece is, of course, on top of that. I spoke to him last Monday at the NATO summit. He said it's a little quieter there. The provocations seem to be taking some of that away. So we are cautiously positive. At the same time, there is still great concern about Cyprus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u214	I hear the Prime Minister talking about 'a positive and negative track' and'staying in dialogue'. Of course I can understand that. Just... I don't understand exactly what's changed. What was the trigger why the Netherlands first blocks the start of these negotiations for five years and now says "you know what, do it" without putting human rights conditions against it? I hear the Prime Minister say that the conflict between Greece and Turkey has calmed down. It was in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. That was something from last summer. I heard him say: Cyprus is getting better. If I compare it to 2016, I just don't understand why the government suddenly thinks that we should give this gift to Erdogan and that suddenly we shouldn't start talking about human rights conditions before we start these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u215	But it's not like that. It is also not the case that the Netherlands is giving a gift. It's not a gift either. The two-track approach was agreed by the European Union in October last year, in which we said: if you take steps on the positive track, they will always be reversible. If the situation deteriorates again, sanctions can also be seen again. The human rights talks go hand in hand with exploratory steps on the positive track. If that's not enough, it'll stop again. But we are looking at what you can achieve, and that is very careful, very rudimentary, very incremental, for example, at the point of that customs union. He's already here. It's a further deepening of that or a bit of a modernisation actually. It is indeed a question of dialogue, human-to-human contacts. It's not seen in Ankara as a gift. No, not that. But I agree with Mrs Piri: it is extremely precarious. We must also be prepared to take steps back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u216	I'd like to go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u217	Russia, briefly, President! I don't think I'll have to say anything about that for long. Quite a lot of questions have been asked about it, but still more statements have been made than questions asked me. There was a specific question about push back, engagement, containment. I sent a lot of appreciation to the Chamber on June 21st. Push back and call a halt if human rights are violated, for example. So that's push back. Engage in terms of cooperation in the areas of climate, environment and health. In addition, of course, the pressure and dialogue approach applies here. Anyway, that's what we've said to each other so many times. Facilitating people-to-people, human-to-human contacts. They remain important as part of the Dutch and European Russia policy. This is also reflected in the Commission's communications. We, as the Netherlands, argue in favour of extending scholarships for Russian students within the Erasum+ programme. This also applies to groups such as artists, journalists, human rights defenders and so on. Where do we draw the line? Again, the relationship with Russia, unlike Turkey, is extremely complicated for the Netherlands, of course, because of the precarious relations because of the state complaint about MH17. But it is very complicated, even with Europe as a whole. There are very worrying developments, such as around Navalny and the relatively recent construction of troops on the Ukrainian border. The unity of the European Union is then extremely important. I'm glad there is. We really agree on that whole approach. If sanctions have to be rolled through, they will. The suppression of Russian money is not in itself the goal. We are committed to combating money laundering. That is the great social issue and also a priority of the cabinet. The Minister for Finance and Justice are, of course, responsible for this. Wopke Hoekstra is currently preparing the bill plan for dealing with money laundering. This includes the joint provision of transaction monitoring by banks and the strengthening of the trust sector. The Council of State Advice is now being incorporated into the legislative proposal. For Nord Stream 2, I can refer to the debate last week. Otherwise, that's gonna be a bit of a repeat. I respectfully take note of what Mr Van der Lee said about this, but then I am going to give the same answer. Perhaps for the sake of time we can refer to that part of last week's Acts. Then there is Mr Sjoerdsma's motion adopted last week. In the past year, a very big club of oligarchs, Putin loyal Duma members and people from the top of the presidential administration have been placed on various EU sanctions lists. This was due to their involvement in the annexation of Crimea, in human rights violations, in the poisoning and conviction of Navalny and in the conflict in Libya. We will continue to do so if it is in the Dutch and European interest. We will continue to do so at EU level. In accordance with Mr Sjoerdsma's motion, Minister Sigrid Kaag, the Foreign Minister, asked yesterday during the Foreign Affairs Council for attention to be given to the possibility of adopting new sanctions if international standards are violated, including against the circle around President Putin. As Mr Kuzu says, the Netherlands is particularly concerned about the human rights situation in Russia. Legislation has been introduced which is contrary to international human rights conventions, for example the law on foreign agents and the law on extremists. Together with other Member States of the European Union, the Netherlands continues to address Russia both in front of and behind the scenes. We also do this in the UN, the Council of Europe and the OSCE. We are working with other EU Member States to strengthen the words. We monitor the lawsuits in Russia very precisely and we continue to support the human rights organisations there. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Belarus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u218	First, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u219	I thought it was a fair explanation of the relationship between the Commission and the High Representative, but perhaps the most important question is: what is new about what is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u220	Nothing new is gonna happen here. I do not think that this European Council is taking very large new decisions. We want to continue the main approach of pressure and dialogue. Here too, as with Turkey... Again, I don't want to compare them, because they are very different situations. They're important neighbors. Turkey is important for our stability and Russia is a great neighbour. He's not gonna leave, so we're gonna have to keep those relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u221	I read those 12 pages. When it comes to a strategic reorientation of the relationship with Russia, I would have hoped that something new would happen. Because let's conclude, it says quite honestly here that things are going very badly with the relationship between Russia and the European Union, and that things are going very badly in Russia. It's expected to get worse. That's a bit of a cliffhanger. Then you expect: that's what this is going to mean. But I have only read measures that are already being taken. I expect not only from the Commission and from the High Representative, but also from this cabinet to hear what more we can do to change the behaviour of Russia, to separate that cabal around Putin and to ensure that they comply with the treaties. I simply don't read that in here. The Prime Minister says that no decision is going to be taken either. But then I ask this cabinet: what is the government's commitment? Or are we just gonna let everything go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u222	We are not leaving everything to the past, but it is of course not the case that with a brilliant strategy we can unleash the cabal around Putin. If we had a solution to that, we would. I think that the whole mix of measures, sanctions, human-to-human contacts and the pressure-and-dialogue approach we have is really the only way. If there's any suggestions for what else we can do, we'll do it, but it's not like I have a magic wall... Or what do you call it? It's not like I have a magic wand to fix that now. Unfortunately. Dan Belarus. I am very pleased with what Sigrid Kaag and her colleagues agreed yesterday. That actually went a lot further than I feared before. These are 78 people and 8 companies. There are also people from the immediate circle of President Lukashenko. There are now 166 people, including him, and 15 companies on the penalty list. You can see that the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom are all following. Well, they're not so much following; they're taking similar actions. We also agreed which economic sectors we want to hit. These sectoral sanctions will also be formally adopted around the European Council. Legal preparations are now being made for this. I think that was a good outcome yesterday from the Foreign Affairs Council. In effect, of course, there is always partial interest. That was a question from Mr Van der Lee. However, I think we have managed to draw up a very solid package. The Netherlands has also made an active commitment to this. Both imports and exports of specific products and the provision of certain financial services are subject to restrictions. I cannot give specific details about this now, because we would warn those sectors beforehand, and that would be in their hands. But after the formal ratification by the European Council, it will of course be clear what the sectoral sanctions look like. We are going to impose restrictions on both imports and exports of specific products to and from Belarus, but also on the provision of certain financial services. I cannot comment specifically on this now, as I say in response to Mr Dassen, but it happens immediately after ratification by the European Council or Coreper. I am not entirely sure whether it is Coreper or the European Council, but there is broad agreement. I can say here that the European Union has never, in the last 27 years of Lukashenko, imposed sectoral sanctions or a flight ban against Belarus. I simply cannot answer the specific question about sanctions in the gas and timber sectors because of confidentiality. The same applies to Mrs Piri's question on the supply of oil. Then the deployment of migrants by Lukashenko. We're aware of those messages. Lithuania has strengthened border management to ensure monitoring of the most vulnerable parts of the border; for example, it has installed more video surveillance. We are currently looking at how we can support Lithuania in this regard at EU level. Frontex has already made funds available as a matter of urgency. We will continue to follow that development very closely. With the sanctions we have adopted, we are, of course, taking a strong stand, but it is also important to continue to support the population as closely as possible at the same time as possible at this difficult time. I agree with Mr Van der Lee and Mr Van Dijk. That is why, following these unfair presidential elections, the EU had to stop a whole package, which we had promised and which was specifically aimed at civil society. At the same time, of course, we are trying to support victims of repression and human rights defenders in Belarus through the free media. We have been doing this for several years as the Netherlands through the Human Rights Fund and the Matra Fund. We have also made additional funds available for this after the presidential elections, because freedom of the press is, of course, one of the priorities in our human rights policy. This is in response to the terrible conditions in Belarus. Finally, in response to Mr Dassen, I think that Sigrid Kaag, the Foreign Minister, rightly stressed that we will have to adopt more sanctions if the repression continues. This increases the price the regime has to pay for repression. I hope that's really not necessary. But again, in the future it is possible to take additional sanctions on the basis of yesterday's decision if the repression continues. Then there's a few more questions I couldn't take with me in a cup like that. Do I still address the issue of WHO aid workers who would have been guilty of sexual abuse during lunch with Guterres, the UN sg? I believe that these allegations about the involvement of UN aid workers in a sex-for-job scandal in the Democratic Republic of Congo in the Ebola crisis show that the approach and prevention of sexual abuse is not yet sufficient, even more so: still insufficient. You see that aid organisations too often see this kind of sexual abuse as incidents and not as an intrinsic risk of humanitarian action. It is, of course, very serious that it seems that the WHO itself was aware and would even have covered up information. During the World Health Assembly at the end of May, the Netherlands called for a rapid and thorough investigation and stressed the need to discuss developments and outcomes with Member States. In August, the WHO will publish the research report. I'm not going to bring that up at lunch because we're now addressing it in every way within the UN system. The point about that lunch is also: we all have one or two minutes of speaking time. I think that we have now brought this up in many places and that it will not add anything if I do so next Thursday, but I can assure Mr Amhaouch that this is a matter of great priority for the Netherlands. Then about that facial recognition and the call by privacy authorities for a ban. The use of biomedical data including facial recognition is in principle prohibited under the GDPR. This is true in all European Member States, including Poland and Hungary. It is only possible if all the conditions of the GDPR are met, but then it must be an exception. The Minister for Legal Protection, Dekker, reaffirmed in his letter of inquiry on the state of implementation Agenda horizontal privacy that it is only possible if a double necessity test is met: it must be necessary for authentication or security purposes and necessary for the sake of a serious public interest. That is what the Minister described in this letter. I also understood that it has already been discussed with the Chamber. Then what about the exchange with the President of the European Parliament? Actually, there isn't. He makes a speech and then it's published. This is mostly about the progress of major priority dossiers in the European Union and, above all, about what the European Parliament is concerned about at the time. It is also true that Michel, the President of the European Council, and also the rotating Presidency, I was able to do it myself in 2016, when we, as the Netherlands, had the rotating Presidency of the Council, were making a similar visit to the European Parliament during plenary sessions. Is there anything known about the future of Europe, at least sorry about the conference on the future of Europe? Mrs Maeijer has asked about the costs here. There is currently no common budget for that conference. The institutions shall finance the activities from their own existing budget. We ask the Netherlands for a more detailed explanation of the costs. The Foreign Minister will inform you about this as soon as possible. Member States are then responsible for their own national citizen consultations and funding. This is financed here from the current State Department budget. Then about Armenian prisoners of war. I think we just talked about Baku. No, sorry, these are Armenian prisoners of war who have not yet been released by Azerbaijan. That also affects Baku and the question about the possible quarter final or semi-final. I can tell you that we consider this to be very serious. Azerbaijan does not see all of them as prisoners of war because they were arrested after the conflict. The Netherlands and the European Union are on top of this. This is high on the agenda. The co-chairmen of the OSCE Minsk Group, in particular Russia, are also working on this. On 12 June, 15 prisoners of war were released by a deal in which the European Union played a role. This also shows that this dialogue sometimes makes you achieve something. I say to Mr Kuzu: yes, the Netherlands is one of the 44 countries on which Canada has read a joint statement today at the Human Rights Council on the situation in Xinjiang. We have, of course, also discussed this here in the Chamber. It is essential that independent research can take place into the events there. That is why this joint statement was read today by the Netherlands with 44 countries through Canada. Mr. Chairman. I think I have tried to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u223	I don't see much movement in the room yet. All the better. Is there a need for a second term? That is not mandatory, but Mr Van Dijk is going to try. The floor is up to him. That should work in a minute, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u224	Mr. Chairman. "European migration policy is as stuck as the formation in the Netherlands." That was the Prime Minister's evening quote. I do not think that is very encouraging for both issues. In the meantime, the Dutch team of course goes like a spear. But on migration, I would like to make a motion from Mrs Piri on Frontex. I would remind you of the letter from the dozens of refugee organisations saying: do something with a group of countries to get the people stuck on Lesbos out of there. That's an apple; I'm not making a motion. Mr. Chairman. I do have two motions on Hungary. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a law prohibiting the display and promotion of homosexuality has been adopted in Hungary;]] [[whereas this is directly contrary to European values;]] [[calls on the Government to examine and prepare, preferably in cooperation with like-minded Member States, to refer Hungary to the Court of Justice of the EU on the basis of Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1704]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u225	And then about football. The Prime Minister said, "No one's going to the game, but that's not a statement. It was just not foreseen." I think that's a little too easy. Orbán gets away with it a little too easily, but the Prime Minister simply says: we weren't going to go anyway. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a law prohibiting the display and promotion of homosexuality to minors has been adopted in Hungary;]] [[considers that this law is directly contrary to European values;]] [[calls on the government not to send an official delegation to the European Championships on Sunday,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1705]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u226	Thank you. First of all, Mr Azmani's heartfelt greetings, which are already looking forward to being back here next year with the State of the Union. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u227	Was that Azmani 1 or 2 you had on the phone? Or 1b?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u228	We should question him critically ourselves, I would say. I do not have any motions, but I would like to comment on Mr Van Houwelingen's contribution. I am not so much concerned with the content, because of course he has every right to find what he thinks and to weigh the situation in Hungary as he does, even though that is not my way. But I do regret the qualifications he gave and the comparison he made. I'm sorry we need that kind of thing to make our point in this Chamber. I would also like to remind you of the debate I had yesterday on the procedure of the Chamber, in which we also noted: the Chamber, that is us. We have an example, so I wanted to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u229	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u230	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for all the answers. In the second term, I will have an answer to my question as to how much time we are going to give the Commission, or how much time the procedures will take. I have one last sentence about Russia. Recently, the right to vote of supporters of the Navalny movement has also been waived. The elections are in September. Is the finger well kept on the wrist, also European, to take any steps if there are any further violations of human rights in September, such as denying the right to vote? We have heard the answer to the question about facial recognition, but that answer does not satisfy us, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of certain forms of artificial intelligence, such as biometric recognition in public space, poses serious risks in terms of privacy and civil liberties, and may lead to an undesirable surveillance society;]] [[Whereas the umbrella of European Privacy Supervisors, including the Personal Data Authority, calls for a ban on the use of facial recognition and other biometrics in public space;]] [[Considering that the current proposal of the European Commission for the regulation of artificial intelligence allows the use of these applications in public space in certain cases;]] [[calls on the Government to step up the proposal at European level in order to achieve a comprehensive ban on the use of biometric recognition in public space,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Bouchallichh and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1706]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u231	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for his first-term reply. For the sake of time, I wanted to briefly read out my two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current European migration policy is a system in which migration is often carried out via illegal routes rather than through legal routes;]] [[Whereas legal migration, as part of broad cooperation with countries of origin, can be used to combat irregular migration and promote cooperation on return;]] [[calls on the Government to promote greater opportunities for legal migration within these partnerships, including joining the ongoing European legal migration pilots,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1707]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u232	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, since the establishment of the rule of law mechanism, the constitutional situation in Hungary has been further deteriorated by the Hungarian anti-lhbti law, the exodus of critical media channels and the state authority of universities and cultural institutions;]] [[whereas the agreements within the European Council do not exceed the fundamental values of the European Union;]] [[whereas the European Commission is failing to implement the law allowing the cessation of EU funds towards Hungary;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to urge the European Commission to implement the rule of law mechanism and to stop EU funds towards Hungary as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1708]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u233	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I look forward to the cabinet's letter on the temporary suspension of patents. I also welcome the clear condemnation by the Prime Minister of Hungarian anti-lhbti legislation and the commitment that he will also pass it on to his Hungarian counterpart Victor Orbán. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas UEFA had initiated an investigation into the wearing of a rainbow band by the captain of the German team and the organisation prohibited the lighting of the stadium in Munich in the rainbow colours;]] [[noting that UEFA has no problem being sponsored by state-owned companies from autocratic regimes;]] [[having noted that the European Commission has been cooperating with UEFA since 2014 and has supported several projects financially;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to review the cooperation with UEFA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van der Laan, Mr Kuzu, Mr Segers and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1709]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u234	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that UNHCR, investigative journalists and civil society organisations have reported on pushbacks by EU Member States and actors, including Frontex;]] [[Whereas pushbacks run counter to international refugee law and European treaties;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to condemn the illegal pushbacks at the forthcoming European Summit and to point out to Heads of Government, whether bilaterally or not, that these pushbacks should stop acutely,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Kuzu, Mr Dassen and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1710]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u235	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Eppink, but I think he has left us. Mr. Amhaouch, he's still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u236	Mr. Chairman. I'm looking back on a good debate. I also like the messages via the Prime Minister towards Europe. First of all... The Prime Minister indicated that yesterday he watched the match with Prime Minister Zaev of North Macedonia to create a little orange feeling. That's a nice picture for me too that sports should radiate. It is indeed a pity that we are now in a situation where we need to talk about why things are not going well in Hungary or in Poland. That's sad. Indeed, we do not make concessions to human rights or to international law. That's where we have to draw a line. At the same time, we support the Prime Minister's plea that we should always build those relationships. We do need to focus on what is happening in Turkey. But its strategic location is so important, also for Dutch interest and for European interest, that we must continue to work together on this content. But I support Mrs Piri in saying that we must continue to increase the pressure to do so in accordance with our values. The point I have tried to make today is about the momentum of economic recovery. A lot has happened in the corona crisis. Let us hold that momentum and also post corona take our chances together with the northern countries to further develop the strategic industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u237	Very nice, thank you very much. Then Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u238	Just one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u239	You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u240	I can do it. Yeah, I'm gonna start now. No more long papers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still major problems with food quality and quantity in camps at the European external borders;]] [[noting that refugees have the human right to good and healthy food and that the Netherlands can play an important role in it;]] [[calls on the Cabinet, in cooperation with the Dutch agricultural and logistical sectors, to improve food quality and quantity for refugees in accommodation on the European external border;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that refugee flows are regularly caused by a lack of food in the region of origin;]] [[noting that the Dutch agricultural sector and the WUR have enormous knowledge about the effective production of food in difficult conditions;]] [[invites the cabinet to engage with the Dutch agricultural sector to use its knowledge and skills for direct and tangible improvements in the food supply of regions from which many refugees leave,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of the House of Representatives today rejected a motion to hang the EU flag next to the Dutch flag in the Plenary Chamber of the House of Representatives;]] [[whereas a majority of the House of Representatives, in all its diversity, wants to continue to radiate its own identity;]] [[noting that our twelve provinces and three special municipalities Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba are part of the territory of the Netherlands, and that Aruba, Curaçao, and Sint-Maarten are part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to designate a place in the plenary room for flags of the twelve provinces, of the three special municipalities as well as of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1711]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1712]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1713]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u241	The last one is a...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u242	What?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u243	Twelve flags; there is something to be said about that. If you'll just stand there for a moment, Mrs. Van der Plas. First, Mr Van der Lee. It is, of course, a little out of order, because we are talking about the European summit today. It would have been nice if you had submitted this at last Monday's estimate, because then the House of Representatives talked about itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u244	Yeah, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u245	Consider your comment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u246	Am I going to take the words out of your mouth?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u247	Now I am trying to get back to the European level with the question: if all this were to happen, could the European flag end up in Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u248	We have Mr Dassen to table that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u249	Yeah, okay, but your own position isn't gonna change?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u250	I beg your pardon? I'm sorry, what does Mr. Van der Lee say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u251	Mr President, I would like to ask whether BBB's position on the European flag will change if this motion reaches a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u252	Would you like to run a cow business with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u253	I don't trade. I'm asking you a factual question about your position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u254	I don't know. I don't know what we're gonna decide tomorrow. I am now tabling these three motions for these flags, and I am involving our overseas neighbours. I liked doing that. Maybe it's not exactly the place for that, that's possible. I thought it was about Europe and the EU, so I have a hook to file this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u255	I had that idea a little bit, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u256	It is up to the Chamber to agree or not to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u257	It is a motion about the Chamber itself, so the Prime Minister can give his opinion on what we are hanging on the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u258	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u259	But if he says it's up to the Chamber itself, he can also keep quiet about it. But it's about us as a room. Just a little state-law thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u260	Yes. Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u261	And where do all the flags come from? On the wall or something? Or on the balcony?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u262	If necessary, they become holograms. The technique is for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u263	Yeah, yeah, yeah, but then, of course, we get into a fight about which flag first... The Limburg part of my group says, of course, no, first Limburg!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u264	We can always table another motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u265	Look, we'll keep ourselves busy. Aruba first says the Prime Minister. Then Mrs Maeijer from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions today. However, two points remain of mine. In the first term, I told the Chamber that Commissioner Timmermans would dictate to us all a little less to fly. I also told the Chamber the travel behaviour of Mrs von der Leyen, who visits 12 countries in a week. I don't think she does that by train. The Prime Minister said: she's doing her job. Although, of course, there is something to be said about this, that is not what I asked for. I asked: do you not think it is hypocritical that we are being dictated on the one hand to fly less, but on the other hand that a Commissioner does half the Union in one week? Secondly, with regard to Turkey, on which I do not think my question has yet been answered. I raised the question of how much money Turkey has received in the context of accession so far, i.e. from the moment the money tap opened up until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u267	Thank you. Then Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party. He's not here; I hear he's been unsubscribe. Then Mr Segers. Second choice, yes, I can't make anything else out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let us at least say that the SGP was there before the Christian Union. That's one thing that's for sure. It's the oldest existing party. Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the Prime Minister for the answers. On one point, I have a motion, which is about playing town Baku. There are 200 Armenian prisoners of war. The law of war has been violated. Azerbaijan has withdrawn Armenia. Europe is drawing a line. I'd think it was misplaced if we were having a party with that. I leave the choice of the athletes where they belong, namely the athletes themselves, but we are talking about a political choice. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in violation of the ceasefire agreement and international war law after the 40-day war in Nagorno-Karabakh at the end of 2020, more than 200 Armenian prisoners of war are still being held, including in Baku, and that there is also a "trophy park" there, including the helmets of Armenians killed;]] [[calls on the government not to send a delegation from the government to Baku in view of this political-military situation, should the Dutch national team play there,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1714]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u269	Thank you. Mr Dassen from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u270	Mr President, I do not have any motions, so I shall waive a second deadline, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u271	That's great. Then Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u272	We also have two motions, including a flag motion. Like Mrs Van der Plas, we were inspired by the motion tabled by Mr Dassen last week. So here comes our flag motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that a large majority of the Dutch population voted against the European Constitution on 1 June 2005;]] [[noting that the Dutch people rejected the formal identification of symbolic matters such as an EU motto, EU folk song and EU flag;]] [[noting that the EU nevertheless introduced the main points of the European Constitution through the back door through the Treaty of Lisbon, which was not the subject of a referendum;]] [[noting that the Treaty of Lisbon, as well as all other EU treaties without consultation of the Dutch population, has transferred sovereignty, which is constitutionally democratically illegal;]] [[noting that the display of the EU flag on government buildings continues the glorification of the democratically illegal EU and is therefore undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the EU flag from all government buildings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1715]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u273	Then a shorter second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that official documents regularly refer to the European Union (EU) as "Europe';]] [[noting that Europe is a continent, and the EU is a supranational organisation, and refer to the EU as "Europe" is therefore factually incorrect;]] [[calls on the government to appoint the EU only with "European Union" or the abbreviation "EU" in all official documents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1716]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u274	Thank you. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mr Kuzu. I wonder what flag he would have applied here and whether he is going to come forward with motions along with Mrs Van der Plas. It's gonna be really exciting tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u275	Mr President, the flags of all countries of origin of people here in the Netherlands. No, I don't think I should do that to you, because that's about 180. But I have two serious motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a high-level diplomatic conflict between Spain and Morocco;]] [[whereas many EU citizens with a Moroccan background who would like to travel by car to Morocco cannot do so because of the fact that the borders between Spain and Morocco are closed;]] [[calls on the Government to explore opportunities at the European Summit to facilitate talks aimed at achieving de-escalation between Spain and Morocco,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1717]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u276	Perhaps soccer diplomacy could also be discussed here. I hope that the Netherlands does not have to play against Spain. I can imagine more easily opponents, but perhaps it is also something for soccer diplomacy. Mr President, my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the World Health Organisation, 11 billion vaccines are needed to control the pandemic;]] [[noting that the EU has made 100 million doses available to the COVAX programme;]] [[noting that vaccination is lagging behind in poorer countries;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether an additional contribution can be made by the Netherlands to COVAX;]] [[calls on the Government to stress the appalling situation in poorer countries at the European Summit and to ask EU Member States to make additional vaccinations available for the COVAX programme, where the situation so permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1718]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u277	I am giving the floor to the Prime Minister and I hope that we can put an end to it quickly. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u278	Van der Lee asked: how much time does the Commission have to start infringement proceedings? There are no fixed deadlines for that. After all, the Commission continuously monitors compliance with EU law in all Member States and acts if it finds an infringement. In this case, the Commission is very serious about whether there is an infringement. Following the previous statement by the President of the Commission, Von der Leyen, Commissioner Jourová confirmed this today at the General Affairs Council. I am confident that it will act if it sees the need and possibilities for this. We will continue to call for this with equal Member States. Then to Navalny. The extremist explanation of Navalny's anti-corruption organization is deeply disturbing. This was not the first step taken against civil society in Russia. It fits into a frightening, downward trend. We will follow that situation very closely. In doing so, the EU unit is crucial. Flying through the President of the European Commission is really up to her. I think it's a little different from general remarks about flying for pleasure. How much has so far been spent on the accession negotiations with Turkey? I would suggest that we return to that in a subsequent report, because we do not have those figures. That comes back once in an annotated agenda or somewhere else. So that's what we're gonna do with the calculator. The motion in part No. 1704: dissuade. The Commission has launched an investigation and decides whether it will come to a Court of Justice. That means it's up to them now to do that. The motion in part No. 1705: dissuade. The motion does not propose to send a delegation to the European Championship. We need a lot of discussion about this in the cabinet. We want to look at the case by case. At the moment it is not foreseen that anyone from the Cabinet or the Royal House will go there next Sunday. The motion in part No. 1706. This issue is not on the agenda of the European Council. Honestly, I can't judge that now either. My request would be for Mr Van der Lee to submit it to the Minister concerned. I can't give you any advice on that right now. It does not touch this European Council either. If I'm forced now, I'm gonna dissuade the motion, but maybe he can hold it to a debate with Grapperhaus. The motion in part No. 1707: dissuade...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u279	I'm holding the motion in part no. 1706 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u280	At the request of Mr Van der Lee, I propose his motion (21501-20, No. 1706). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u281	Then the motion to part No. 1707, on possibilities for legal migration. We are currently promoting legal migration within existing frameworks, as part of wider agreements at European level. Further steps, as this motion also asks, are really up to a new cabinet. So I'd say hold on. Mr Sjoerdsma also has a tight hand when a new cabinet comes and can then file the motion again. I have to discourage the motion now if he didn't arrest it. Then the motion to part No. 1708. I would also like to point out that the debate has been discussed. The rule of law mechanism is in operation, the so-called flash pole. It's a deal that fines follow after the Court case. If we hadn't made the deal, there wouldn't have been anything at the moment, no MFF, no RRF or any rule of law mechanism. The motion in part No. 1708 has therefore been dissuaded. My advice is to move in part no. 1709. I myself am not familiar with the content of the agreements between the Commission and UEFA, nor with the agreements with UEFA from the Netherlands. Perhaps this motion could be tabled in a debate with the US Secretary of State. I must now advise against the motion just to be sure, but perhaps it should be held and Mrs Piri can table it in a debate with Tamara van Ark. The motion in part No. 1710: Court of Justice opinion, provided I can read that we are involving OLAF and the Commission in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u282	I would like to take a close look at Mrs Piri, because she has to confirm or deny it. So it's about the explanation of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u283	I just can't give advice on it right now. I just have no idea what it's like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u284	I'm not on the VWS committee, but I'll do the motion in part no. Continue 1709 and see how we can still file it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u285	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u286	At the request of Mrs Piri, I propose her motion (21501-20, No. 1709). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u287	The motion in part No. 1710 is therefore Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 1711. We are doing a great deal of development cooperation in this area. Nor is it on the agenda of this European Council. I think that Mrs van der Plas could perhaps take this up again in debates with the Foreign Minister, former Minister for BHOS, or with the Minister for Agriculture. If the motion isn't stopped, I'm gonna have to dissuade it now. I don't think there's any reason to do that right now. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1712. We do a lot of things. Nor is it on the agenda of the European Council. Here too, the experts are the Minister for BH-OS; at least the former Minister for BH-OS and now Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the Minister for Agriculture. The motion in part No. 1713 is in the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1714. I'm dissuading that motion now because I'd like to discuss this in the Cabinet first. So let's see what happens to the motion. If it is adopted, I think that the same applies to the motion on Qatar, that if it is on the agenda we will have to judge it. The motion in part No. 1715 is judgment Chamber, as is the motion in part No. 1716. The motion in part No. 1717 I must dissuade. It's not on the agenda either. The motion in part No. 1718 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u288	We will vote on these motions tomorrow. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his presence. I will close the sitting on 22 June, but Mr Sjoerdsma looks very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u289	Yes, excuse me, but what was the verdict on the motion in part No. 1715?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u290	That's a motion we're not discussing. So that's up to the Chamber. Right? Oh, no, I'm sorry, you're absolutely right. That's not recommended. That motion is about removing all government buildings from the EU flag, isn't it? Sorry. You're absolutely right. Luckily, responding on time. Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Dissuade, the motion in part No. 1715.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u291	Oof, oof, oof. The papers already came with an extra edition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u292	Yeah, it almost went wrong. Mr. Sjoerdsma is right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u293	Let's pay attention, guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u294	Just watch what I'm saying. Now I have to sing twice for the same money. The motion in part No. 1717 has been dissuaded. It's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u295	The minister-persident says dissuaded about Mr Van der Lee's motion and me about a delegation to Baku. He says we'll look into that in due course with Qatar. This is about the quarterfinals. So that could be pretty quick. I can imagine the Prime Minister saying: we are going to look at that if it is possible to adopt it. But that it would be immeasurable seems to me, frankly, strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u296	No, but I don't know what the Cabinet thinks. Can't I pass judgment on a motion, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u297	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u298	For the sake of security, I must advise against the motion. But you're just gonna get a majority for this after all. I see that happening. And then we have to relate to that. Right? But not dissuade me because I disagree with it, but because I'm stuck with that dilemma. I really think it's a good idea to have a quiet discussion in the cabinet. But if the motion is passed, the cabinet will have a moment. Hopefully it will be necessary because then we will be another round. The Germans would say: Wir möchten Ihre Probleme haben.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u299	It's a beautifully founded word at the end, which we always like. Isn't that Thomas Mann's or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u300	No. Who was it? Sjoerdsma might know. No, I didn't. I belong here, Angela Merkel. No, it wasn't. She could have told me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u301	Many thanks to the Prime Minister for his presence and participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-tweedekamer-37.u302	We'll vote on the motions tomorrow. I shall close the sitting on 22 June.
