ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	The subject is now the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35352, amendment of a number of education laws to clarify the citizenship assignment to schools in the foundational education system. Last week we started with the first term of office and today we continue with the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the honourable Members for their input last week and for the opportunity now available to deal with it this morning. As a ruler responsible for the defence of this bill, deep within me is a former professor of history and social studies once, 25 years ago, those were my first steps on the labour market........................................................................................................................................................................................................... When I think back to last week's contributions, I realise that not every honourable Member has experienced that way. I remember Mr De Vries thinking we were putting a horse behind the cart. I hope to explain to him today that it is precisely the intention to get the horse in front of the car. Mr Schalk expressed his deepest feelings and indicated that he had some concerns. I think he even said he had an annoying feeling. Well, I hope that the handling of this bill today can help to bring his feelings a little more into line with the current weather conditions. Mr. Chairman. I've divided the answer into cubes. I don't know if that division has spread by now. If so, I do not need to mention all of this and then I will start with the first part: the need to amend this law in the way that the cabinet has done. Why is that important? Why am I excited about that? You have seen that there is broad support for this bill in the House of Representatives, so fortunately that enthusiasm was also shared. That has to do with different things. First of all, in the course of time, we have begun to find citizenship, citizenship, an increasingly important subject. We think it is important that young people who go to primary and secondary schools should be given more than just knowledge transfer. We want them to learn to work together, to live together and to meet others to also learn that sometimes someone else can be really different and have different views, and how to deal with them. I thought it was Mr Pijlman who said: the school is a small democracy. One could say: it is small-scale society, as a kind of practice place of how you deal with the other, what your own place is in it and how we do it in this country, a country that we all know is a democratic rule of law. We are all proud of this, and we think it is important that we maintain the democratic rule of law in everything. We have also seen, I thought Mrs Sent pointed out that international research shows that the Netherlands does not really have a very good track record when it comes to the quality of our citizenship. There are countries that are way ahead of us. International investigations point that out every time. By the way, the picture in schools is sometimes very different. I sometimes come to schools where one has really made it one of the main subjects, without the law asking for it. But there are also schools where it dangles or where it is sometimes parked in another course and then it depends on how it is taught in the course. We'd like to change that. We would like to see the quality of citizenship education in the Netherlands further increased. An important direct reason for bringing forward this bill is that the inspection has specifically asked for it. Mr Ganzevoort pointed out that the inspection which had already been carried out in 2006 was something I would like to say out of my mind, which led to the current general citizenship mandate being incorporated into the law. The inspection found that the definition of the current general citizenship mission is so general that it is difficult for schools to know exactly what is being asked of them. You could say that if you do one thing that has to do with citizenship, you've already fulfilled the overall citizenship mission of the law. That's really skinny. Secondly, for that reason, it is very complicated for the inspection to monitor properly, because if it is so general, what do you test? When will it be okay? Is it okay if only one thing happens in a school that has to do with citizenship formation, for example a theme week or theme lesson around the elections or something like that? Is that enough? Do we think that's enough for each other? The answer is that, as far as we are concerned, that is not enough. That is why we have now tightened up the overall citizenship mission, in the sense that it gives clarity to everyone, to the schools and to the inspection about what is expected and monitored. I think it is right to make it clear that this law clarifies the overall citizenship mandate that is already in the law. But that does not affect the constitutional freedom that schools have. Schools retain the right to shape citizenship on the basis of their own identity or their own character, where they sometimes attract very much towards society, parents and potential pupils. We'll clarify, but we won't take an ounce off that. There is no single citizenship vision imposed on schools either. There is no question of coercion at all. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Schalk. But the clarification in the law does ensure that there is a common core. We ask this from all schools, regardless of their identity or background. It is therefore the very broad palette of schools that we have in the Netherlands, including Islamic education. That is what I am saying to Mr Van Kesteren. We ask all schools to include this common core in the formation of citizenship and also to clarify the way in which this is done. Again, that applies to all schools. But that can be done in a way that suits the school. It does not all have to be done in the same way, but everyone is asked to promote active citizenship and social cohesion in a targeted, coherent and recognizable way. One must also have a school culture which is in line with the basic values and which encourages active practice with and work on an environment in which students and staff feel safe and accepted. No more, but no less. That is a clarification that was not reflected in the old law in this way. This also leads to discussion. We can see that, but in the end this is the goal that we should be able to find each other in broad terms and that every educational heart should be knocking on faster. Because of course everyone who is active in a school, on any job, as a school director, as a teacher or as support staff, has only one goal: to let the students who come in there continue their development. Of course in the cognitive field with regard to all kinds of subjects that we think they should find something about. They can even make choices in that, because it doesn't have to be the same for every student either. We are also setting very clear targets for this, which some people are sweating on even today to show that they have made their own, because the second period of the exams is currently under way. That's wider than just cognitive knowledge. We also want them to develop as citizens. The school can also contribute to this. We do not ask the school to take full responsibility for this. There is also a responsibility for parents and everything that happens around that school, but the school also has a place in it. Again, I can only get very excited about that myself. Moreover, I can see in the schools that this is happening for the most part. I hope, if there are any concerns, that I will be able to take them further in my reply. Maybe to close this first block, one more comment on my part. That's like the bridge to the curriculum. We are only talking about the overall mandate of citizenship in a sec. It is rather unfocused; the word "vague" should also be used. We're gonna improve that now, we're gonna tighten that up a little bit, a little bit clearer. This is an improvement on the current situation. So anyone who may have questions about this but doesn't think the current situation is ideal, I think will also have to consider it for themselves: do we keep it as it is not ideal, not even in the supervision, that we have seen in recent years too, or are we going to take a next step, which puts both the subject and the supervision and everything around it on a higher plan and will also be an improvement on all the shortcomings we have seen in the past period? I say to Mr De Vries that we are not putting the horse behind the cart, but that the horse was behind the cart and that we would like to have it in front of the cart. I think that is a huge improvement, but if you choose not to support this bill, that is of course your right to do so. Then leave the horse behind the cart. That is your right, but the cabinet and a majority of the House of Representatives have decided otherwise. Mr. Chairman. Then the bridge to the curriculum. I understand very well the questions that have been asked about this. Mrs Sent in particular, also on behalf of the SP, Mr Pijlman, I can almost name all the names, because everyone has already said the word 'curriculum' once. But do you realise that, in the current situation, the overall citizenship mission and the curriculum and what is in it with regard to citizenship are already in parallel at the moment? We are working in both areas to eliminate the deficits that we see. This is the case with this law when it comes to the overall citizenship mission. In the curriculum we have been doing a bit longer; that is indeed a somewhat long journey. I also taste the impatience, among other things, in Mrs Sent's words. You know that I thought it was rather special that you said this on behalf of the SP, because the SP in the Lower House is not really the biggest enthusiastic driver of this process. However, there can be different weighting when it comes to the Chambers. We have been working hard in the past period to further shape that trajectory from below. Teachers have also been actively involved. This is already at a stage where building blocks have been delivered and we can take the next step towards the formulation of key objectives. It is also incredibly important for the quality of our education that we are going to get more keen on it, because the same problem with citizenship, which is common, sometimes we also see reading, counting and mentioning a few other subjects that we consider important with each other. With regard to the superstructure, the House of Representatives finally said at the beginning of the previous calendar year, just before Corona broke loose, that the route had to be filled in slightly differently. There is now a scientific committee led by former Member of Parliament Roel Kuiper in the process of giving all kinds of advice; the reports are there, there will also be this month. The House of Representatives has declared it controversial for a long time. It has just been removed from the list, in my view, because we still have a further written consultation that still needs to be discussed in the Chamber. But it also stood still for a while because the cabinet became a missionary and the Chamber considered this a subject on which not too much movement could be set up by the cabinet. So we are working hard on this and that will eventually have to work towards new final terms and new final exams, even when it comes to superstructures. We know that some programs even date back to the last century. So it's really time we did something about that. I sincerely hope for myself, but that now transcends my responsibilities as a outgoing executive that will continue to progress in a new cabinet period. In this sense, however, both the overall citizenship mission and the curriculum are inseparable. At one, it happens in the classroom. That is what we want more than just in secondary education. As far as we are concerned, this also happens in primary education, where it is not really very well developed. The overall citizenship mission transcends the classroom and ensures that this needs to be given wider attention in the school. They are two separate routes, even when it comes to the legal basis that we have, although in the end, I would also say to Mr Ganzevoort, that they are both valid requirements. So they both have to move forward, but they don't have to wait for each other. There's absolutely no need for that. So we will also let the other one be in full swing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u4	A quick question. In the written procedure and also in the proceedings in the House of Representatives, I saw every time the Minister tried very hard to keep the two apart: this citizenship assignment and that curriculum. In his explanatory statement at the moment, I have the feeling that he is pulling them closer together. Can he clarify that a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u5	I think both are true. When it comes to the assessment of this bill, it's not like you're wondering if this law makes sense if, for example, there's still a lot to do with the curriculum. Do we have to do this now or do we have to pull it up at the same time? Then I say: no, you can really see that as separate pathways, in the sense that they both really have their own legal basis. When it comes to focusing on citizenship, it is of course also important what happens in classrooms. There are already tasks for education, which are not yet very strong. In the context of the curriculum review, we therefore want to do so much more broadly. We do not just want something to happen in a subject such as social studies or a subject such as history, there is no misunderstanding that these subjects are very nice to me, but we also think it is important that attention should be paid to them in primary education, that there are continuous learning lines and that we should better fill that in that respect. As far as I am concerned, this path must continue, which is ultimately a political choice. But that doesn't have to stand in the way of carrying out this improvement with an overall school assignment, which goes even beyond what happens in a classroom. Both can therefore be combined. When it comes to judging the law, you don't have to take them together. But when it comes to what happens in a school, it is of course part of that and the inspection will look into that in its assessment. But I'll come back to that in surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u6	As far as I am concerned, concluding on this point, the Minister says it can be done. But in the speech he just made, he referred to a number of requests made by this Chamber during the last week's proceedings, in which the link with the curriculum was explicitly made. So my conclusion is: it can be done, but it doesn't have to be done. Quite specifically: are they connected or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u7	When it comes to assessing this law, this law is not about the curriculum. This law is about the overall school assignment, which we have seen was too unfocused and too vague about citizenship. As a result, we have given substance to this improvement in the overall citizenship mission. Then we could make a point, even when it comes to this debate. But I understand very well that the Chamber says: but there is another route, namely the curriculum adjustment, which includes citizenship, and how do the two relate to each other? In this assessment of this law, it is not in itself a question of this, but when it comes to the desire for citizenship to be wider in a school, it is of course important that this process should also be further developed and that it should also lead to specific, even legal, provisions for schools when it comes to the curriculum. Anyway, we'll get back to that when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u8	The Minister is asking us a question that I would like answered by him. At least I'd like to get help from him in answering that question. That's the next question. In his view, the bill is an improvement, and it is up to this Chamber to assess whether that improvement is sufficient. That is the struggle of Mr Pijlman and a number of other spokesmen. How can the Minister offer us comfort that without it being embedded in the curriculum, without there being end-terms, learning goals, etc., this will actually be achieved as an improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u9	The curriculum focuses on subjects, on what happens in a course. The subjects have been mentioned a few times, also by me. Courses such as social studies and history are seen as subjects that, so to speak, would be a bit of ownership of the subject of citizenship formation. I have given 11 years of social studies and, by the way, history, and that is indeed hardcore citizenship. That's a wonderful thing to do. I am still very pleased to see that I have been able to contribute to this. But that is something that happens in a particular profession in a school, when we say with this overall citizenship mission: wait a minute, you can't just leave that in a box, put a check mark on it, and then think it's in order with citizenship. No, we want to see what we find to be the essential elements of citizenship, which are linked to our democratic rule of law, wider in the school. Then we don't park it in one or two courses that pay some attention to it in their curriculum and where it is once discussed in a grade. Let me put it this way, but again: with all due respect for what happens in the lessons, knowing that I have been there myself. No, we just expect that in a school there is wider attention to citizenship and that the values associated with it are taught not only theoretically in a lesson, but also in school culture. If we do not adopt this law, of course that can always be done, then that part is completely gone. In fact, you say: we think it is important that it should take place in a few subjects, and we think it is sufficient that this course should be continued. That may be a choice, but that is not the choice made by the cabinet, the coalition parties who once shaped this cabinet and a broad majority across the street, as you always call it so beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u10	That is an answer to the question of whether it is an improvement. But it is not yet an answer to the question of whether it is sufficient. How can we be comfortable that supervision is actually properly organised, that you do not need the curriculum at all to improve citizenship education, that the inspection has sufficient tools and that the schools have sufficient clarity about how to carry it out? That's still the struggle for me. I see it as an improvement, but I want to have some kind of comfort that this improvement is also being achieved and that there is sufficient clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u11	I will come back to the other blocks later, because then it is about the supervision and the significance of the core values for the schools, the space they have and what they have to do. In short, I will come back to that. But with every lawmaking, you change the law. You change letters into the law, sometimes a lot of letters and all kinds of articles. In terms of legal technical significance, this legislative proposal is still quite simple. If that bill is real law, it must of course be done in practice. But that really applies to everything, including all the other subjects that I have dealt with here with you. I hope to have provided you with sufficient comfort in the future by indicating how we are doing this. That is also happening in the block of support, because we are already helping schools to make sure, if not already, that this is going to work much more in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u12	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u13	One short question, the third. I really hope that the Minister will come back to that in the following blocks, because his answer does not reassure me now. Our Chamber is about the feasibility, and we need to see that this feasibility is also so that the purpose of the law is achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u14	We still have some time. I have good hope that I can take some more of that with me. Mr. Chairman. Then there is also a connection with the Remkes committee. The cabinet has already given a view on this committee's report, which I believe went to this Chamber through my colleague Mr Ollongren. Remkes really underlines the importance of citizenship in everything. But he lays it down, a bit through the line of the curriculum, very much to a single subject. The cabinet doesn't choose that. We are doing it more broadly with this bill, by making the overall school assignment a little firmer. But otherwise, it's completely what Remkes wants. We find it important not only in the superstructure of the vo, but also in the substructure and in the p.o. It needs to be addressed not only with words, but also with a kind of attitude, in the sense of how you behave as a citizen in this country, how you deal with someone else and how someone else treats you. What kind of space and rights are there for you? This must be given full attention in the schools. That's completely in line with what Remkes explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u15	Remkes recommends that history and state institutions become mandatory for all pupils. He also talks about the continuous learning line and says that social studies should become a serious subject, an incalculable subject. My question was whether these recommendations were also taken up by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u16	The cabinet didn't do that. That may one day be the outcome of a trajectory, but I just indicated that we're decorating the curriculum from the bottom up. The scientific committee under the direction of Roel Kuiper gives advice for the superstructure of the vo. One of the aims of the curriculum adjustment is to prevent the overload. Choices will have to be made about the interpretation of the teaching time. I hope you will understand that it is not wise to take out a single box at the front and give it all the space, while we have not yet done so for the other subjects. In the end, it will have to be a broader consideration, including, of course, other subjects. That trajectory is now underway. Even before the summer, I hope to get the opinion on how to fill in the time of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u17	I understand what you are saying, but a full position for social studies, which is now in the curriculum but in many cases can simply be compensated and not seen as a serious subject, does not take any extra time. Are you considering taking that type of action in response to the committee you set up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u18	That has quite far-reaching consequences, because then you are going to make changes in the bag-layering control and in the position of compartments in it. I think Mr Pijlman understands that this is far-reaching in any case because of the outgoing state of this cabinet. That doesn't fit our position anymore. Anyway, you're asking me about this right now. I was a teacher at a time when it wasn't a graduation course. In the superstructure you got two hours, which you were allowed to spread over the senior year and the senior year. It was also allowed in the senior year or all in the senior year, but most of the time it was spread out. Sometimes you'd get classes that didn't even include the grade for social studies on their final list. Then all they got was a reporter for it. If I had known what the situation is now, the water would have been in my mouth. The course has been given a very solid position, but the assessment is indeed in a group of boxes in which it can be compensated. But that also applies to a few other subjects. I think culture is also an important thing for D66. Music has also become an exam course and has undergone a huge development, but is also in that category. We are not going to change that in advance. That has to do with our missionary state, among other things. But the course has become a full-fledged subject. Really. Don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u19	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u20	It's a lot of choice, too. The same goes for the floor. You can choose a more general interpretation and an in-depth interpretation. A lot of use is being made of this too. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk asked if the curriculum strengthens our democracy and knowledge and skills. That's right. That is already part of the curriculum and of course we want to keep it. Mrs Nanninga indicated that it should not be so that we keep difficult subjects out of the curriculum. I shall come back to this later on in detail on the subject of support for schools. I totally agree with her. That should not be the case. Also difficult issues will have to remain in the curriculum. We have quite a mandate to support the schools where it is complicated to deal with those issues. I can say in your direction that this bill, with the overall mandate for citizenship, requires even more schools to have a vision of it. They need to make a citizenship vision, and they need to show it. They need to show that they get hands and feet in practice. In schools where it is difficult, I don't think the first attitude is: never mind. Although that might be the practice in a classroom. This bill instructs schools to understand how they do it. This also offers opportunities for monitoring and support, to assist these schools when it is complicated. In that respect, this bill is really an enrichment compared to what is now lying, also with regard to the rightly mentioned topic of how to deal with difficult issues. A week or two ago in the Volkskrant was quite an intrusive article about this, which made it clear what kind of struggles there are sometimes in practice. We would very much like to support the schools, but I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the common core. That's my third block. In the law, which, of course, has been studied with great precision by all of you, but also in the explanatory memorandum, in the other written documents and in the examination which took place in the Lower House on 9 November of the previous calendar year, you have been able to find the elements of that common core. They are valid for all schools, regardless of their denomination. I will say that again to Mr Van Kesteren. Of course, I know his focus on one particular school group. This applies to all schools. The overall school assignment will also apply to these schools. That means they're really gonna have to do something about it, if they haven't done it yet. There are schools, also with an Islamic identity, which are already doing so very intensively. If that is not the case, then there is now a much tighter task to do so and to make that clear. Again, that applies to all schools, regardless of their denomination. That also offers the inspection the opportunity to act when this is not happening. We have seen examples over the past cabinet period that have shown that this has been difficult with the supervisory framework and the way in which supervision is now being monitored, to put it mildly. Mr. Chairman. I just indicated in the first block that schools have the space to fill in from their own identity. But they will have to include the common core, as set out in the law. That's what we're asking them to do. Questions have been asked about that. Why were those basic values chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u21	The Minister just stated in his reply that the Education Inspectorate also indicated the need for this legislative amendment. It would improve supervision and review. I would like to ask the Minister the following. If it turns out that school boards still have the content to take into account the identity of the school in that citizenship mission, does the inspection work? In theory, they can better test and act on compliance, but if it turns out that there is still room for schools, despite the fact that this does not meet the basic values of our democratic rule of law, then do you put the horse behind the car, as Mr De Vries of GO said?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u22	Two things. First of all, the common core, as set out in the law. In the explanatory memorandum, the way in which this should be looked at in school practice has been expressed in detail. It applies to all schools. If we do not meet this requirement, then that is the second thing I want to say about it, so we are in breach of the law which I hope we have adopted with each other. Then that also offers the inspection the opportunity to supervise. That's always stimulating supervision, which means you want them to do it the way it is in the law. But if one insists on it, you know that our legislation also allows the inspection to eventually impose sanctions. The most far-reaching sanction is that funding is withheld. With the old law, which is so general, there was actually no legal instrument at the time when things really happened that we were worried about and that we really thought it should be different, to have a legal basis with that law to ask the schools to do it differently. You have been able to follow all this over the past few years, up to the judgments of the judge who gave that clap and even referred to the legislation we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u23	I would like to ask the Minister, however, if this amendment of law is accepted in this Chamber and if there is a situation you are already referring to, of anti-democratic tendencies that you are going to act on, or if we can assume that you will not be flagged back by the Council of State because of the freedom of education and the freedom of substance in order to be able to see the identity in that citizenship mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u24	There is little absolute certainty in life, including when it comes to judgments that a judge makes. Judges do so in complete independence. I'm sure of one thing. The legal basis currently contained in the current law on the overall citizenship mission is so vague that, in practice, it is virtually impossible to deal with it in terms of supervision. This law is a huge improvement on the old law when schools are perspiring in citizenship education that we are concerned about because it could indeed contain anti-democratic or anti-integrative elements or because at least there is reason to assume it; you know the discussion. This law is an improvement in order to monitor it properly, to ensure that it is stopped and that a school is so organized and that its citizenship is shaped as much as we want it to be with each other in this country. You can choose to uphold the old law, but then I know one thing for sure: that horse really stays behind the wagon. By clarifying it now in the law and thus also giving the inspection more opportunities to simply mean it in a positive way, because in this way our supervision has been set up to help schools to give substance to it. If there are cases where people are persisting in reality doing different things than we want to do with each other in this country, then that offers the opportunity to act much better. Then that may eventually end up with a judge. The judge's judgment is really up to the judge. I can't touch that. But I do know that this law is a huge improvement on the old law. So I would have more confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u25	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u26	I really hope it will be prevented, because that is, of course, the very last thing. Juridization of this kind of thing is so incredibly bad, you shouldn't want it with each other. Anyway, sometimes it's the practice. This can be done in a democratic state governed by the rule of law, which is a good thing. Mr. Chairman. In these three core values, freedom, equality and solidarity, Mr Schalk heard an echo from a long time ago. I would like to say the following. Of course, they weren't randomly chosen. You have also been able to find this in the documents. There has been a committee in the Netherlands that has given advice on the promotion of core values of the rule of law. What were those core values? Exactly. Those were these three. The Education Council has advised on core values, and what were the core values? Exactly. What are the core values in international treaties? The answer is clear. And also in the context of the obligation of integration, which is an interesting one, also in the direction of Mr Schalk; perhaps he has read it in the report, but I have also mentioned it in the House of Representatives, these are the core values that we ask of our newcomers. I found it quite interesting, because it happened in a previous cabinet period. I think it was then Minister Asscher who was responsible for that at the time. There have been debates, including in the Lower House. I found it rather nice to find in the report that the representative of the SGP at the time in the Chamber considered the choice of these core values to be logical. In the end, the SGP Group has also agreed to the law on this issue and to the obligation of integration as it goes with it. So you could actually say that these values are widely valued politically as the core values of our democratic rule of law. Then it is not so strange to give them a place here. If we think that newcomers should be included in these values and have a place in society, that is not so illogical, of course, because we mean a different kind of newcomers. These are the young citizens who grow up, who go to our schools, also in that wider palette of schools we have. Some of you have put that very well on the edge of the tension that lies between these values, for example between freedom and equality. Just when you pronounce it, you already feel the tension so to speak. I understand that. Let me say this about it. Of course, it is also, in part, inherent in our fundamental rights and also in these basic values, which are based on the fact that there is tension in them. I found it very nice to hear from various contributions, Mr Pijlman, Mr Ganzevoort and others, that there is reciprocity when it comes to these basic values, but also when it comes to the fundamental rights that are ultimately enshrined in our Constitution. So one is no more than the other. They have to relate to each other. We are here with the Education Committee, so let me take the freedom of education on the one hand, and also on the other hand, with regard to equality, rights that pupils but also teachers have. As those who have their place in that school community, with regard to who they are and also have to be who they are, with regard to the full place they have as a whole, where one does not rise above the other but also takes account of the other. And when you can expect the other one to take you back into account. In short, it's that reciprocal process. This is inherent in fundamental rights, which is inherent in fundamental values, and thus inherent in our democratic rule of law. So we in this country have to deal with each other; small in a school, but also large in society as a whole. One-sided recourse to, for example, the basic value of freedom, which is also a fundamental right, is never good. One-sidedness is not good at a time when something is side-arranged and that you also have to find your way in it with each other. Let there be no doubt; even in this room I have spoken to you as a Chamber. I am a huge supporter of the freedom of education. I like that; it has grown historically in the Netherlands. Some people want to get rid of it, but I like that we have so much space that there's room for what I call our own schools, that you can also express your identity in your school. But that's not an end in itself. That includes a responsibility. That responsibility is that you first of all deal with that freedom prudently, also once again because you are financed by community money, at least that is what most schools in the Netherlands are about. But that you also take into account individual rights that exist in your school, relying on that freedom. Moreover, we recognise them very clearly in this law and we also point out that attention should be paid to them, but they are also, of course, guaranteed in other laws and regulations, for example, the General Law on Equal Treatment, which Mr Pijlman also referred to as Article 8. In other words, it is already the task of schools to comply with it, regardless of this law. It is so important that schools give substance to this. And then a personal heart cry from my side. Because I have seen the criticism of this law and I have seen again what kind of mail has gone to you. Some also pointed out this, among others from the profile organisations, of which I know most quite well, I dare say. I'd like to say to them: take off those dark glasses. We live in a beautiful country, a really great country, where so much can be done, where there are so many amenities and where there are so many freedoms. In this country, therefore, there is also room for all those schools hiding behind the profile organisations to take advantage of the freedom we have enshrined in our Constitution to set up schools, even to be funded by the government, and to receive children there and to guide them on their way to adulthood. That's just incredibly beautiful. There is also room to have own views. Mr Pijlman and Mr Ganzevoort also spoke about this, but others also did. It is not that you are silenced and that you cannot find anything at all, even if that may differ from what is decisive in the dominant culture, to speak for a moment in sociological terms. There is also room for minority views, not only in your own inner room, but also in education. But the schools are part of the democratic rule of law. They make use of the rights contained in them, so we ask them to express the values that go with them in their schools and to help the pupils to contribute to them. So they shouldn't just be passively explaining that this is how we do it in this country. No, you're also part of this country, even though you may have a view that you're still forming, which doesn't quite match what a lot of people find in this city or in this country. That view may just be there, but also that of another, for which you must have respect and for which there must be space, even when it comes to the choice of how you want to organise your life. But all this, of course, is within the framework of the laws and regulations. You can be who you are, and you can be another person who he is. That is the reciprocity that should be there. Surely it should be a matter of honour for schools, with this law in hand, once again, as part of the rule of law and using the rights that exist in the rule of law, in order to do so in a good way? Of course, they may need to find their way within connecting it with the identity of the school in a good way. But the profile organisations would better put their energy into helping and supporting their schools, rather than pretending that this law is suddenly shutting them down, demanding things from them that are very unreasonable and schools actually impose some kind of coercion. That word was used by Mr Schalk: not citizenship formation, but citizenship coercion in the sense of: you will and you must. That is absolutely not in the spirit of this law and of the way in which we have shaped it in the explanatory statement and in all kinds of other ways. Against Mrs Nanninga, there is therefore no room for one-sidedness. No, it has to be wide. It's not like we're just looking at this from one angle. We ask all schools widely to work for this and to be fully part of our rule of law. Once again, I hope that if this law becomes real law, people will shake off the concerns that one has and with enormous energy and quality I know schools that may be worried, which I know they have so much in their house trying to make something of this and go for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u27	It's wonderful to see this minister's passion, especially when he defends this bill. He talks about the profile organisations, but they can't defend themselves very easily here. We can do that, in the sense that we sometimes feel connected with some of those profile organisations. In this debate, I did not say that this law leads to citizenship. I have indicated that I want to prevent citizenship from leading to citizenship. Last week, even Mr Pijlman said that there had been contact with the education inspection about risk schools of orthodox cut, Jewish, Islamic or reformatorical, which are actually identified as such by the inspection. I thought that was a far-reaching expression, which also has something to do with the profile organisations, because they feel the same way. Can the Minister indicate that at least that cannot be thrown into a big pile?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u28	These were Mr Pijlman's words about a conversation he had. I have a lot of contact with the inspection myself. They don't think in the sense of high-risk schools. But if you just look over your shoulder over the past few years, you can see that there are a few cases that are, so to speak, the most extreme when it comes to what needs to be monitored. Because basically this supervision is just meant to take into regular school supervision and see what happens in a school. On the basis of the law, as it stands, and the supervisory framework, this will have to be fully linked to the law one-on-one. No doubt whatsoever, nor any interpretations of your own. No, one-on-one will find the law in the supervisory framework. It is then used in the regular supervision that takes place in the schools. This is well reported at school level, which is always accessible to everyone. In addition, the inspection always has the space to conduct thematic studies and to report the state of play at system level in the State of Education. That will really happen with citizenship, because we want to know how this is going to develop. That is also an answer to a question from Mrs de Blécourt and Mr Pijlman: you will be informed. Finally, let's say that there really are incidents that need to be dealt with, where we are perceived as failing to comply with our laws and regulations. Then we have a few examples of the signature mentioned by Mr Pijlman: an Islamic school, but: an Islamic school, not all Islamic schools, a Jewish school, which is very specific, because that way there is only one of them, and a reformatorical school. But I can say right away: there has been a theme study that has been much wider and there were no reformative schools. There was a public school and there was a Catholic school. In short, in all denominations there may be situations where we say: this should not have happened. Then the inspection will have to take place. This law does indeed offer opportunities to do so more specifically than under the old law. But it is not that there is a box of 'risk schools' where the inspection with this law will go under the arm in particular, while she thinks about the other schools that it will all work out. No, it's just wide and it's also, again, stimulating surveillance. It's not meant to go into the schools with the blunt axe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you for that answer. I understand that the Minister refers to the theme research Citizenship education and to dealing with differences in moral views...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u31	... on which recommendations have indeed been made to schools of all kinds of denominations, and some have even been given recovery orders. I think we agree that if something goes wrong at a school somewhere, I also said that last week should be acted on it. But I am glad that we are not going to throw schools into one heap in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u32	Nor did I have the impression that Mr Pijlman, who is the best person to say this himself, did so in his first term. But there have been concrete cases, with the most recent being a reformatorical school in Gorinchem, which you mentioned last week. It just wasn't acceptable what you heard about that. If that's really true, then the inspection should just investigate. That is what we hope to get in July, and then we will see what the investigation of the inspection has actually resulted in and what might be done in the context of recovery orders. That's really waiting. Is that the practice at all reformatorial schools? No, of course not. I think you were quite ready to do that yourself. It's happened. That is not good and then the inspection simply has to do its job, no matter which denomination and which school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u33	The risk is that, if the Minister tries to satisfy Mr Schalk, I will be satisfied again. Because I find the word "risk schools" quite common. There have been a number of incidents, which I mentioned last time, at an Islamic school, at a Jewish Orthodox school and also at a reformatorical school. Those weren't small, negligible cases. That was really about something. On the one hand, the rule of law at a school was completely ignored. There was a very different way of teaching than we want here. And on the other hand, kids couldn't be who they were. Those things are not too trivialized. Mr Schalk is perfectly capable of saying that we should not sweep them all together. We should not, indeed, do so, but we must ensure that this does not happen again, that freedom of education is not abused in this way. That is what I have been talking about, and I will come back to that in the second instance. As far as I am concerned, these are the schools at risk and the inspection is mainly looking at them, because there are the greatest risks for those children, for those pupils, and for the rule of law. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u34	There's no doubt about that. The moment such things happen, that is serious. There's no reason to trivialize that. In fact, it is important that the inspection should have the opportunity to go to work and do the work for which we have set up the inspection. But that's different than saying that if something happens in a certain school, it happens everywhere. Something happens in political parties too. That is what all the parties have to do with, including Mr Pijlman's party, where that happened not so long ago. Then we do not say: every representative is like this. If something happens to another body, for example in the banking world, then we do not say: all banks are like this. We do not want to generalise, but if we have clear signals that something is wrong, then we want to be able to act. This law offers much more opportunities to do something about it, including for the inspection, which supervises it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u35	I understand the balance the minister is looking for very well. That appeals to me. But I still have one question to clarify. He says, on the one hand, that the inspection does not think in risk schools; that is not what we are doing. On the other hand, when it comes to supervision, we are also talking about risk-based supervision. That is what Mr Pijlman asked for. My question is how these terms relate to each other, just for the sake of precision. What does "risk-oriented supervision" mean if we do not talk about "risk schools"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u36	That's the three steps I just mentioned. That's how the inspection works. First of all, there is the overall supervision, which takes place in all schools. That's four years old, but right now there's a little more room not to do that very tight four-year-old. If there are certain schools that need more visitors, then the inspection also has room for that. This change has entered into force in the last year. That's one. Secondly, there are the thematic studies. The thematic studies may raise certain risks, as has recently been done with the thematic research to which Mr Schalk referred. That investigation has been fairly wide-ranging. They said that this happened a lot in particular education. However, you know that there are a lot more schools for special education compared to public. This research also showed that it was in order in most schools, but that there were things not in order in a number of schools. That was spread across all denominations, except reformatorial education. That was true for the investigation. The inspection has started in the form of repair orders or at least has given instructions, in the sense of: you have to work with them. The inspection will come back, of course. And last but not least, let's say there's really been an incident. Let me take the last incident as an example. The NRC has reported on what students at a school in Gorinchem have been through. Then we do not say: wait until the next investigation arrives; we happen to have no thematic research now, so leave it alone. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's how the inspection works. That was a reformatory school in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u37	So the minister says that risk-based supervision is done at the moment that there are specific signals in specific places?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u38	These can come from the overall investigation. Then the inspection says there's something going on here, so we're not done in two days, as is often the case with our investigation. But these can also arise from the thematic studies, which are a bit randomly spread across the country. Then there can also be something that needs to be more focused on. This can be done on the basis of signals from students or from the media, which reveals or says something: there is something going on. That must of course always be investigated, and justice must also be done to the school. That's the way it works. Mr. Chairman. That's actually what I'm doing with the surveillance block. The inspection will begin with the supervisory framework. This is linked one-on-one to the law, to the requirements and to the common core, which can be found in the law. This also offers the inspection much better tools to assess the school in this area. If necessary, the inspection will also have the possibility of stimulating supervision, to help and support the school in eliminating any deficiencies identified. You can do that with a recovery order. That's a heavier instrument. We have all properly regulated this in the law, with deadlines that apply to it. When one fails to comply with the repair order, the inspection itself has the opportunity to impose financial sanctions. This usually starts at 15%, but the percentages may increase. This is also happening at a single school in the Netherlands. Eventually, a ruler can intervene by means of a clue, just to put it in those terms. As you know, I did so once, but the judge judged that there was insufficient legal basis for this. But those really are the extremes that you end up in. We have thousands of schools in the Netherlands. We can indeed make a list of a number of schools where this has happened, but that also means that thousands of schools are doing just fine. If things don't go well for a while, the inspection can do its job to make sure that the good things do happen there in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u39	I have a question for the Minister. What if this law had been there when that trial took place? You said that there was insufficient legal basis. Could there have been any intervention there under the same circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u40	That also falls a bit under the as-dance category. I know one thing. Look at the judgment given by the court. We assumed the legal basis was in place. It was a sum sum. It's never one thing. It's often a combination of things. We thought there was sufficient legal basis to intervene in this school. That's why I gave you that clue, which is very unusual. In the end, you were able to hear the judge's ruling on this matter. We are now a little further in time and we see that the necessary things have happened at that school. The supervision, which also takes place in other ways than just through an indication, which is the most extreme form, is beginning to have its effect when you look at the changes that are taking place at that school at the moment. So also with the regular instruments you can do something. But in this situation it was insufficient. In the end, you can only really say "this is enough" when there is a case that a judge decides on. I can't speculate about that. Everything we're doing right now is a lot firmer than what was lying there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'm asking the question anyway. You think it would help?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u42	The answer is yes. Otherwise, of course, we wouldn't change this assignment. First of all, we do so with regard to the schools, so that the schools know where they are and so that the good things happen there. But of course we are also doing it.That's the last thing in the list.To have more possibilities to intervene at the time when there really is caseism that is very persistent and we find unacceptable. I think that is the right order to approach the issue. But if you make that very last one very big, then I can see that Mr Schalk is worrying again. That's not what it's for. It is purely intended to ensure that good things happen around citizenship, but also to be able to act against serious cases of cases, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u43	I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister how much time he needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u45	I'm almost done with this part. The inspection will, of course, also monitor the core objectives. That is another legal basis, but of course that is also happening in the research they are doing. They don't say, "That's what we'll be back for next week." That's just part of it. The inspectors are trained for their work. They're professionals. They have to enforce the law. The law is the framework from which they work. Of course, every person is entitled to personal views, but this is a professional attitude that we ask of everyone. The task of inspectors is also properly enshrined in the Education Supervision Act, which states that the inspection carries out the tasks while respecting the freedom of education. So that's part of "I'd almost say "the way the inspection should work'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u46	I have read that report on this subject from the inspection. I have to say, I'm pretty convinced of the professionalism of the inspection. So the question I am asking is not out of mistrust, but is really the question: if inspectors' own values are sanding a not a little bit but a lot of money with those of the school they visit, how does the inspection deal with that? Because that sanding does something in your head, no matter how professional you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u47	All inspectors, whatever schools they go to, are trained in their profession, in their work, to do so independently. That's part of their job. They may feel a little more at home at one school than at another, but that should not stand in the way of their professional performance of their task. Sometimes there are conversations that are sometimes a bit firmer, but then again the law and what the law requires is the basis from which an inspector should be allowed and able to speak firmly to the schools. But always with a view to the future, making things better, also coming in line with how we want it from law and regulation. And also taking into account the freedom of schools to have their own identity and to give hands and feet to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u48	I understand what the Minister is saying. He also says partly normatively: this is how it should be. One question I have is: is the inspection that sanding, which makes it more difficult to exercise stimulating supervision, an explicit conversational theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u49	I do know the current Inspector General very well. I know from her that she is very motivated to implement the law as intended by the law, with her people, so all the inspectors we know in the Netherlands. With also room for schools, but with a clear core in relation to what we ask of all schools. And also clarity when it comes to the school climate and to make it clear in what way you implement it, in which you have your own vision. This will also be monitored. That is, in a sense, hesitant. Again, there is also room for a school for the interpretation that gives it. On the other hand, however, there is restraint, not in relation to what is in the law, which must be part of it. This is how people deal with it, and that seems to me to be a very good way to do it. Mr. Chairman. This is also in the direction of Mr Verkerk. I also hope that practice will prove, because that is of course still the question that Mrs Sent has, how it will work in practice, that it will be able to do so. Of course, it starts with making sure the basics are right. It also starts with clarity, also towards schools: this is really what we are asking of you. At the moment, there is no such clarity. Of course, the law has been ready for treatment for quite a long time. It was dealt with in November in the Lower House, but not yet here. We just want us to get to work on that law. Then that also gives clarity to the schools. I just said turn off the sunglasses, or turn off the button, no matter what kind of metaphor you want to use. I hope, then, that there will also be full support for it and will also work with it in practice, to the extent that this is still a question for some schools, because there are even schools that have worked in this way, sometimes for many years. But there will be schools that will come from a little further. Then the monitoring will also clarify what progress has been made. One has to report, one will also have to report progress in one's own school. We have also been asked here if the Chamber can get reports. Let me agree that if letters are sent, also with reports on the subject that also go to the House of Representatives, they also go to you. In addition, you will of course receive the State of Education, in which will be reported. I'll send theme surveys to the House of Representatives. From my successor, you'll get it. Then you can also just keep the finger on the wrist yourself if this is really enough. But at least we have made the legal basis very clear and then we simply have to get to work on it. That's where we're gonna support schools, Madam President. There is already a support programme that is currently under way, which we have also invested financially. That also goes on for a number of years. We are now looking at a quarter of an hour's work, because it is now going through the sectoral councils, whether it can perhaps go to the schools in a different way and what is the most practical and the best way to do that. Of course, profile organisations are involved, also in those talks, but also the Dutch Association of Teachers Society and the Alliance of Citizenship. There are also a lot of organisations working on this in a very positive way. So we're gonna continue with that in the next few days. In the curriculum, as I have already indicated, support is also given to this whole process, which includes citizenship formation. So that is also what happens with support. And when it comes to what I call the situations that are very embarrassing, where there is embarrassment and where it is difficult to act, there are really a lot of programmes that can be used for that. Stichting School & Security (Stichting School & Security) is not often enough to mention with honour. This is an organisation which is also subsidised by the government, which has beautiful teaching packages and programmes, especially for these schools. Also in the discussions we have with municipalities we point out to them every time: take care of the schools that fall in your municipality and which often also the education aldermen but also the mayors know that it is sometimes quite difficult, and make sure that they also use the training courses that are given, of teaching packages that are made available. They're not supposed to be, so the money can never be an obstacle to making use of it. The inspection also highlights, of course, the possibilities for the schools to give substance here too. We don't want to run away from difficult issues. Take the subject of holocaust. It just needs to be treated. There's also a core goal, it's just also in the curriculum. If it is found that this does not happen, for whatever reason, then it is also a good reason to start working with such a school and to support it. In addition, Professor Beatrice de Graaf, you probably know, of Utrecht University is already working on a programme that is also aimed at radicalisation, which includes schools. She has also been given the opportunity to make teaching letters, also in connection with the murder of the French teacher Paty, who also go to the schools via Stichting School & Security. So there is wonderful material that also takes into account the sensitive school environment in which this needs to be addressed, which we want to help teachers to do their work in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u50	Is that also an answer to the concerns expressed by the teachers? I'm really so taken by the quote from that teacher who says, "Some things I don't treat anymore, I have a family." How are we gonna help that teacher with textbooks? How does this teacher get a safe environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u51	Of course, that does not start with 'here you have a lesson letter and good luck with it'. That is not enough. First of all, it starts by working with each other in that school. This must be done sometimes with support, in order to ensure that the good things happen in that school in order to have this teacher also in a position that he can do his job in a good and safe way. That goes beyond just "this way you could deal with that subject." This is what Stichting School & Security is for, even wider than just by supporting a school in a safe environment with a textbook, in order to be able to treat such a letter. So that's always a combination. Again, that is not easy, but we have put a lot into it now, which also needs to be deployed. What I myself notice is that sometimes people are not familiar with the offer. Such a Foundation School & Security................................................................................................................................................................................. It has been there for a long time, there is also calamities, also in other areas, if, for example, there is a serious accident, as we have heard about the week, in Amsterdam. In such a situation they can also provide support to a school. Use it, too. That is something that we are also bringing to your attention with great urgency in the direction of schools. I do that myself sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister the following. School climate and safety, both for students and teachers, are important. But then I read that if a teacher feels threatened, the school board is tied to hands and feet. The teacher's gonna have to file a report. What should change in the role of the education inspection and school boards to ensure that a teacher does not press charges if he is threatened or feels unsafe, but that real action is taken there, so that the teacher can really feel safe and unthreatened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u53	It is true that only an opinion to make a declaration is not enough. It's broader, because there's something in that school that's caused such a situation to happen. But filing a report is a personal choice that someone has to make. By the way, you can transfer making a declaration to someone else, which is also a choice of your own. But in the end, that's what we advise them never to accept that things happen that violate our laws and regulations. So if there's a threat, always report it. But then the problem is not solved, because the problem has arisen in a certain context: the school. So it's up to the school to do the right thing. This is also a task they have, which is also the result of our laws and regulations. With this law, that, in a manner of speaking, also comes into a certain context. So indeed, the competent authority must be addressed to the responsibility they bear for their teachers to be able to give their lessons in a safe manner. That is also what the inspection is for, to see to it. At a time when there is not enough action, this leads to the escalation that could be associated with such situations if one insists on doing nothing or does not do the good things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u54	Is the Minister confident that this legislative change will actually change and that the judge will not say again "the school board can do nothing, because it has the freedom to carry out the citizenship mission, given the identity of the school', which means that the only thing left is a teacher who feels threatened or unsafe: report or go into hiding?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u55	Ensuring a safe school environment is already an overall school assignment that is next to the overall citizenship education mission, because there are more. This is just a job the school has to do. In other laws and regulations we also see the responsibility they bear for the well-being of pupils, but also of teachers. So we don't need this law alone for that. But what this law does, too, is my answer to Mrs Nanninga, because we are really asking schools to formulate their vision of citizenship and how they want to implement it and express the basic values at school, wider than just a lesson, but also in the whole school environment, this can help to perhaps get a clearer view of a school and also of the problems a school has. This in turn offers opportunities to work much more focused in the support. So we ask schools much more to I would almost say to confess color: where do you stand, what do you want, what are you going to do, how are you going to apply this law in your school, as we ask with this law much tighter of schools? Then the whole process comes from: okay, and is that going to work in practice? Of course, we see situations where this happens just right, because the support of Stichting School & Security is applied in many places, also successfully. But there are also places where that is very uncomfortable. Then perhaps more is needed, and then we will have to continue to do so. That's the assignment we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you. Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u57	I shall return to Mrs Sent's quote. Because of course it is quite something, such a teacher who stands there and thinks: I do not treat the Holocaust, because safety is not there. Such a teacher is actually empty-handed. Of course, the school must do the necessary, but that does not happen very often. This type of school is a risk school. My question at first was: what can the inspection actually do in such a case? How are we able to deal with each other? I think we all have the same view of this to appeal to the parents who support these students: this is not how we treat each other in the Netherlands; this is not what you can give to your children here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u58	I had arrived at this part precisely because Mr Doornhof also put his finger on it. Mr Doornhof said with you: there are parents behind that. Those kids come from an environment where they might hear this sort of thing and therefore find this, whatever they find in the school. This is listening very closely. How far do we go in asking the school about the responsibility they bear back in their school, including for opinions and behaviour that cannot be tolerated? Then, of course, the school is primarily responsible for what happens in the school. He has to make sure that such a teacher who has concerns about his family and maybe about himself... I have personal contact with a teacher who has experienced and is still experiencing that. That's been going on for a couple of months, and that's pretty intense and that's working really hard. Another one goes to work after a week and another one suffers from it for a very long time and hardly dares to work anymore. There is no doubt that all the care to be given in the school takes place first of all from the responsibility of the competent authority, but also with support, because sometimes the competent authority also has its hands in the hair with the question of what can actually be done here. The competent authority has as the ultimate instrument suspension or eventually sending a pupil out of school. The question is whether you can ask a competent authority, of course, that also relates to parents, that one is clear about the rules that apply, to which one has to abide. If a child doesn't do that, they can't do it in class. And if they persist in misbehavior at that level, that could eventually mean removing the school. The question is how far you can go by asking the school to change parents' minds. Of course, you have to include the parents in the rules and values behind them, which you want to give content with your school. That will of course stop, but that can also mean the removal of the student in question, which, of course, also indirectly protects the relevant teacher who is confronted with it. So that's a pretty close listen. It's also looking for what you can expect from a school in the most extreme and where responsibility ends. But I would like to start where that responsibility begins, and that must be given substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr. Arrowman. I would ask the Minister to reply a little bit more succinctly, otherwise we will not be able to make it before lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u60	I'm almost done, Madam President. It's about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u61	I'll also try to be brief. I totally agree with you. My question was first of all: do we have enough tools as a society to address these parents and, if necessary, deal with them? Because I understand everything the Minister calls, but you really need to develop new instruments, because this is a problem in our society. Are you prepared to set up a group there to provide advice on how to make these situations a thing of the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u62	We are, of course, talking about the school, about what happens in a school, about the responsibility of the competent authority, about the assignments we give to the school, and so on, and so on. This issue ultimately transcends school. This is a broader social issue, which can be expressed in many ways. Of course, it starts with someone who just has opinions. That is, in a manner of speaking, a fact you have to deal with. At a time when these views are contrary to our laws and regulations and in public space, sometimes they may also be in the inner room, when, for example, violence is being used against others, where violations of the law occur, our law must simply be enforced and action must be taken. These are children of parents who may have views that are contrary to the values we have just discussed, who enter and express a school. Well, I've just indicated the ability of the competent authority to give teachers the space to continue to do their work, but also to continue to carry out your school vision of citizenship, including with such students in the school, because it's extremely important for them to be included. But there may be a limit to that once, which could lead to suspension and removal. With the mayors, including the big cities, we talk about this subject regularly and how we can do this with each other in a good way. Again, this is one part of it: education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u63	And the question is, are you willing to set up a group there? That was the question asked by Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u64	A group... That's already happening. I'm not alone in that. This includes my colleague from the Justice Department and that from Social Affairs, who is responsible for integration. We are also already in conversation with the mayors of the big cities and with the local government to think about this. Talk groups are formed from the School & Security Foundation, including with teachers. So there are already a number of these kinds of discussion groups, which indeed have this issue high on the agenda. And that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u65	I would like to thank the Minister for not forgetting my question about the position of parents and pupils themselves. But my approach was different. It's not even so much that schools don't want to perform. I place first of all that they have the power to do so and whether or not they can do so. It is more about reaching the border at some point in time for schools, which is why they want to act so harshly. But they're chained to the limitations of compulsory schooling. You may want to remove a student as a school, but you have to go somewhere with a student like that. The compulsory education prevents you at such a time to show that it is really you to do those students and parents yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u66	That is indeed a problem that you run into, because you also do not want a child to come home and get no more education. In fact, it would be very good if these children, too, were to experience citizenship and take a place in society. So there's a huge field of tension there. Only, we've just approached it from the teacher's point of view. Sometimes there's really a limit to what you can accept. First of all, you can make it clear by suspension that you don't accept that. Then you not only set the standard clearly, but you also act when that standard is broken and one doesn't want to change. In the most extreme case, this can also lead to removal, but of course you hope that there will be a conversation in that intermediate area and that people will return to the school community, allowing this student to continue his education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u67	I have a feeling the Minister's gonna come through, but he's got a right to contradict me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u68	You're not asking a real question. Maybe that would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u69	In my first term, I mentioned specific facilities for schools. I have set an example of serious offences. Then you are punished in accordance with juvenile law and then there is also separate education in a penitentiary institution, or whatever it is called among young people. The question is, of course, I am making it concrete at your request whether as a government you should not simply facilitate schools so that they can actually take such measures in extreme cases, as the Minister has rightly pointed out. Now they are often tied by their hands and have to maintain that student, because what else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u70	That is the route that must be followed afterwards and which is often part of youth care. When it comes to offences, there is also a judicial review to ensure that a child does not just disappear into thin air, but that there is room in another place to guide the student in question, so that he can go through his development. Indeed, you have to prevent a school from saying, "We actually don't have a choice at all. We basically have the power to suspend and to send someone out of school, but then we let someone go and we don't know what's happening. We'd rather not." Then the world must move around it and it is, as you know, tightly organized, sometimes even so tight that there are several representatives who bend around a child and try to find a way in it. But it's incredibly uncomfortable. We do not have one-two-three in all situations a ready-made solution. I don't want to pretend that either, because that would be a misconception of the rebellion. But it is important to give maximum support to schools in this area, because that was, of course, the starting point. Mr. Chairman. There were a few short questions. First of all, on the declarations of identity. Mr Schalk asked if I can confirm that they are no longer being used. He says they're lucky they're not there anymore. I did not know that when the debate was held in November. At that time, I had only learned about it through the newspaper. In the meantime, we have done research on this. Research has shown that we no longer find the statements that were made in the media in this way in the schools. I would point out that Mr Schalk says that fortunately this is not the case anymore. Then the statement that the term "genderideology" is not part of the fundamental fundamental right to be treated equally. Mr Schalk asked for an explanation. I have interpreted "genderideology" as a denial of the existence of gender differences, gender and sexual orientation. Indeed, this does not tolerate equivalence, because there are differences and they can manifest themselves in all kinds of places. This is entirely true of what is also stated in the General Law on equal treatment, namely that everyone must be treated equally. That doesn't mean you can't have certain views about relationships and relationship formation, but I think I've been very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr. Ganzevoort, before interrupting, you have all requested an hour's speaking time for the second term. Do you really have to ask this question now or can you take it with you in the second term? Otherwise, I would prefer to conclude the Minister's reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u72	I have one more question I'd like to answer and then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u73	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u74	I will not come back to this in my second term. I promise the chairman. I understand very well that Mr Schalk would like a ministerial approval of the declarations of identity, but I find that too easy. I also find this answer too easy. It is not so much a question of whether a particular text is not in it, but of whether there is agreement on the fundamental values that were involved. That certain phrases are no longer in it... In my first term, I referred to a text that is in it, about gender expression. That element is explicitly stated in the General Law on Equal Treatment. My question to the Minister is whether he does not run away too easily and reassures Mr Schalk too easily, for these are indeed declarations of identity which are imposed, which force parents, and therefore children, and which are contrary to the general law on equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr Schalk merely asked for confirmation of whether these declarations of identity are still being used in schools. We've been investigating that, and the answer to that is that we haven't found them anymore. That was his question. Your question follows that and is equally relevant, because an explanation is only an explanation. There may also be other explanations. But even if you don't have an explanation: in the end, it's about expressing in a school the basic values we set together in this law. Indeed, this includes the basic value of equivalence. Schools will have to work with that, too. Some of them will indeed require extra attention, because there have been situations there that have not been good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u76	I just want to make it very specific and then I'm gonna close up. One formulation in an explanation was: in our appearance too, we let the distinction between men and women laid down in the creation be expressed. Does the Minister agree with the basic values we are discussing today? Or is that a suppression of gender expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u77	Ultimately, the way in which the basic values are expressed in practice will determine whether a school expresses freedom, equality and solidarity in its broad school culture, and whether pupils have a safe place in it. It's okay for a school to make demands. We've recognized that with each other. But that should not hinder the space that a student in the school wants to experience to be who he is. At the time of such situations, the first thing to do is to talk to the student in question and to ensure that there is a safe school environment for this student.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u78	Let me help the minister. This is the identity statement from Pieter Zandt College. I can imagine that this gives rise to a discussion, because this seems to me to be a very problematic statement when it comes to gender expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u79	Schools will have to express their basic values. They're gonna have to come back to school. Indeed, every pupil will have to be treated equally, which is already a requirement for schools under the General Law on Equal Treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u80	You had one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u81	There was one more question from Mrs De Blécourt concerning the teaching material. There is a constitutional space for schools to make their own choices. That's something that needs to happen in the school. In the broad context of a school, including with regard to the school environment and whether the provisions of this law are expressed, the inspection will, of course, take a broad look at what is happening in a school and will have talks if necessary on the basis of all the expressions. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I've had the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u82	I see a number of Members walking to the interrupting microphone, but I would really start with the second term, otherwise we will not be able to make it for lunch. So now we come to the second term from the Chamber. I would suggest that you take your question with you in that second period. The first speaker is Mr Ganzevoort of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I was generally very content with that, except at the end. But the Minister understands that; I did not think that was an answer to my question. If we walk away from the concrete situation, I find that complicated, because that is what we are trying to do. This also has something to do with the feasibility and enforcement that Mrs Sent mentioned. Of course, this is not a technocratic law. This is above all a law that seeks to change a culture, a culture in which, if I may say so, we are polarizing, in which we are losing each other and in which social cohesion is under pressure. That makes it so important to emphasise precisely that value level. That appeals to us. We will also support this law; I say that right away. That's no surprise after my first term either. Indeed, responsibility lies primarily with schools to ensure a safe and valuable climate. That is indeed more than saying 'go ahead and report it if it goes wrong', because then you are going to judge it and make it technocratic. It is much more about the question: how do you, as a government, take responsibility for adjusting the insecurity that can arise due to the enormous diversity that exists at a school and also because of what is happening widely in society? In order to create a learning environment, because to learn you also need a certain security, in addition to a certain abrasive element. It helps very much if you also encounter other signals, other messages, other stories, other people; people who sometimes step on your toes and to whom you have to relate. This requires a structural commitment, which requires structural policy, it also requires standards and limits, and it also calls for the commitment to dialogue, to respect and to connection, because that is what we learn from each other. The basic question for us is: what is needed for social depolarisation and what can education mean? The latter is limited, let us be honest about that. Education cannot do everything, but it is an important link in it. That's why we're looking for common values. The Minister said it very nicely, I thought: not only for citizens, but also for our young people. I would like to say that for our classical columns, too. Those too live in this society, which is part of that. This means that it also fits the freedom of education and of its own values. But that is also where we all speak to each other about the common values and the common values. It is a good thing that the inspection is monitoring this, supporting but also sanctioning in the extreme. Does that create a tension with the freedom of education? As far as I am concerned, that is the last consideration we have to make. And yes, there's a tension. There's always tension. There is also, above all, tension, and perhaps we could emphasize this a little more between the freedom of the school and the freedom of the student. As far as we are concerned, they are both part of the freedom of education: the freedom of the school, of a board, of teachers, of parents, to organise education in accordance with one's own beliefs, but also the freedom of the student to grow up in an environment that is safe, which is forming and teaches those values, and which ultimately gives the student the opportunity to become optimally self-sufficient. To develop optimally their own possibilities, both cognitively and physically and in all kinds of other ways, in skills, but also in personality, and also in one's own values and in your own place in society. That's exactly where we're concerned. Our concerns are not primarily with the fear of profile organisations, although we understand them very well. I very much underline the Minister's speech and the call to move along with it. But they are in the care, the pedagogical responsibility, as I mentioned in my first term, of a school to ensure that pupils come to justice. We see that certain groups of students do not do so, that they develop psychological problems, that they are driven to suicide attempts, because they are faced with an environment in which their existence is denied, humiliated, is discriminated against. Not necessarily with harsh, shocking words, but often under the guise of "these are our common values at this school, this is what you will have to do with." That's what we're worried about, those students who risk being crushed in some sort of Culture Wars that we just shouldn't touch at all. We are also concerned, with the PvdA and the SP, about the teachers who are unsafe because they no longer dare to raise certain issues. Indeed, this calls for a broad policy of schools, whose first task, first vocation and first responsibility should be to give pupils the space to become who they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you. Mrs Sent from the PvdA group will then take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the pleasant and enthusiastic answer to the questions I have put on behalf of the PvdA and the SP. We need citizenship to become more important in the educational curriculum. This calls for tools to better organise and control citizenship education. And that is exactly what the proposal before us is aimed at. However, we have expressed serious doubts about the limited impact that the legislative proposal seems to have. I would like to pass on the Minister's reactions to the individual points. Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposal is only a start for providing more concrete guidance for educational institutions in the formulation of the citizenship mandate. Clear guidelines and building blocks, elaborated in learning goals and end-terms, are awaiting adoption because the government has not chosen to embed the legislative proposal in the ongoing curriculum review process. The Council of State also calls for attention to be paid to this. The Minister's response that this will have to prove to be the case is worrying, especially in a Chamber which has as one of the key tasks to monitor that implementation. We hope with him that the schools and the inspection will actually have enough handles. Mr. Chairman. The role of the teacher in the implementation of the present legislative proposal is crucial. The shortage of teachers in both primary and secondary education can have a major impact on the implementation of the present legislative proposal. After all, the government itself indicates that achieving a citizenship mission for teachers will entail additional efforts, while the workload has been the subject of attention for years. And the shortage of teachers is not the only problem with the implementation of this bill. Many teachers indicate that they need support in the implementation of citizenship education. Even with sufficient teachers and good support, problems in implementing the present legislative proposal have not yet been fully addressed. We have discussed in detail the doubts and fears that teachers have in discussing active citizenship and social cohesion with their pupils. The Minister states that there is a support programme under way. We are pleased with that. He warmly recommends the material of the School & Security Foundation, but the pink elephant on the bag of teacher in training Merel van Vroonhoven, namely the lack of teachers, remains unnamed by the minister. This reinforces concerns about the feasibility of the legislative proposal before us. Mr. Chairman. For my group, freedom of education should not be invoked at the expense of the value of the democratic rule of law and its teaching. The commandment of equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination have not been laid down in vain as the first fundamental right in our Constitution. That is why it is unacceptable for my group to speak against universal values such as equality between men and women, homosexuals and heterosexuals. From the Minister's answer, I understand that he sees the tension but seems to make the weighting less sharp than stated in my first term, partly on behalf of the SP. I would like to express my appreciation for the fine contribution of the GroenLinks spokesperson on this subject. Mr. Chairman. I conclude by stressing once again that the PvdA considers citizenship education to be an essential criterion in the assessment of schools by the education inspection. But does the present legislative proposal provide the right tools for achieving the goal? That pressing question lingers and the answer will have to be found in the implementation. If the legislative proposal is accepted, we will support the legislative proposal, and we will continue to closely monitor whether the objective will actually be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill aims to promote active citizenship and social cohesion with respect for and knowledge of the democratic rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms. Schools in foundational education fulfil this citizenship mission by developing social and social competences among pupils that enable them to participate in our pluralistic and democratic society. These are important values, such as freedom, equality and solidarity, but they do not apply in the Islamic ideology, which stands for inequality, intolerance and repression. Enforcement and sanctioning in the event of non-compliance with the citizenship mandate is not always easy in practice. According to the government, if a teacher or a student feels threatened or unsafe, the school is not responsible, but those who feel threatened or unsafe should report it. The Minister has tried to sanction schools with anti-democratic tendencies, but unfortunately he was flagged back by the judge. Schools will be given room for their own implementation of the citizenship mission, but subject to respect for common basic values: freedom, equality and solidarity. If schools fail to do so by consistently and actively rejecting these basic values, then they cannot or hardly be paid for. The education inspection should therefore be more appropriate in enforcement. Making it just discussable or inspiring schools to the right is not always the solution. Being clear and sanctioning is part of that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that this legislative amendment will improve the review, compliance and enforcement of the proper implementation of the citizenship mandate. The Minister also stated in his reply that he does not know whether this change of law will prevent the judge from re-attaching the minister in the future if he wishes to maintain it on the basis of anti-democratic tendencies in the performance of the citizenship mandate. Mr. Chairman. All in all, I note that this change of law does not, or does not, apply to the implementation of the citizenship mandate if it is contrary to the common basic values of our democratic rule of law. Therefore, the next motion, which encourages the Minister to continue to enforce the proper implementation and compliance with the citizenship mandate. The: Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools are entitled to complete the citizenship mission themselves, provided that the content does not conflict with the basic values of the democratic rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms;]] [[Whereas schools on an Islamic basis do not share the basic values of the democratic rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms;]] [[Whereas the education inspection and the minister cannot enforce the supervision of the performance of the citizenship mission;]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to close schools that spread anti-democratic ideas and thereby undermine our freedom and western values,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35352-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. You started with "deep in me is the history teacher." Well, we have that in common. I remember that when I first started as a social studies teacher, I was allowed to teach a 4-havo class on a Friday afternoon, between 2:30 and 4:30. I have to tell you, that was a challenge. Fortunately, the status has changed, as you said. But there is one thing that still has to change in this context: it must be a profession that you cannot compensate. I think the curriculum committee will come back to that. You have to be sure that children are also going for the very basic values of our society. This law is indeed a great improvement. If you see what has happened since 2006, what the Education Inspectorate and the Education Council have said about it and what the thematic research has resulted in, then you have to see that this law is a major improvement. I am pleased that you have taken a broad approach, as I said earlier. But we all know we're not here yet. Also in enforcement, in supervision, you need a curriculum change and that's going to take a few more years. In the context of the curriculum change, I would like to refer once again to Beatrice de Graaf, who has developed wonderful material to centralise the Constitution and the perception of the Constitution by children throughout the course of the curriculum. Why? Because the whole history of our rule of law shows how to weigh articles within the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Last week I called on profile organisations not only to oppose this law, but rather to think from a positive point of view how they can also support schools struggling with this issue. I was pleased to hear that I, too, reported to me with 'let's talk about how that could be done'. I haven't e-mailed back yet, but we're definitely gonna have that conversation. You said it very nicely: freedom of education involves reciprocity. I know that freedom of education is a great asset for you. I think that freedom can be adjusted without completely throwing away the freedom of education. But it also includes responsibility for the state and the views of the rule of law as we know it. Mr. Chairman. I have called for a number of schools to be examined more closely. I mentioned the orthodox schools of Jewish, Islamic and reformatorical homes. This is supported by the thematic research that has been carried out. The incidents in the media were mainly directed at these three school types, but the theme research shows that there is quite a lot going on across the board. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that we will be given a report on supervision. That seems very important to me. I tasted the Minister's legal embarrassment when it was about the underlying question of how to address parents on how they do justice to the teacher; Mrs Sent spoke of it nicely and politely. It goes through the marrow and bone, of course, when you no longer dare to raise the Holocaust in history class. Something's going on. Of course that is relative but in a number of schools the case, but such a teacher is alone. And press charges... yes, you also know how that sometimes goes and that the pressure on that teacher is only getting bigger. I asked, in my first instance, whether the inspection should be given more powers in the event of an administrative incident. The minister says he's talking to a number of partners about this. I'm sure the Minister intends to do something about it, but he's also looking for what he's got in his hands. I would ask the Minister to give the Chamber a little more information on what is the direction of search, because we do not want this with each other, and this has to be kept to a minimum. Finally, Mr President. Like I said, we're not here with this law yet. It will also take some time for the inspection to complete that monitoring. That is why I would like to table a motion to start that supervision at a number of risk schools in the meantime. The: Mr Pijlman, Mr Sent, Mr Backer and Mr Van der Voort proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas citizenship education has been a legal obligation for schools since 2006;]] [[whereas many schools have so far failed to implement it;]] [[Considering that the above-mentioned legislative proposal is still to be completed by amending the curriculum, but that this will take several years to complete;]] [[Whereas incidents have occurred in Orthodox schools, including Islamic and reformatorical schools;]] [[Whereas the basic principles of the democratic rule of law were not taught and school culture was contrary to the values set out in the legislative proposal and the explanatory memorandum;]] [[considers that the Education Inspectorate is primarily responsible for monitoring the implementation of the above-mentioned bill at these risk schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35352-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u89	Mr. Chairman. The Minister also mentioned the name of Mr Paty in this Chamber. In doing so, he underlined once again the urgency of this bill. It is crucial that schools teach pupils what the values of the democratic rule of law are. It is crucial that schools work towards a safe culture. It is also important, and that is why Mr Van Kesteren's motion surprised me somewhat that you can use this law to act as a government if those democratic values are wronged. The motion is based on the assumption that you can do so, while, if I understand correctly, the PVV group in the Lower House voted against this law. So if you want to bring it further that the government can also act, you should vote for this law. Mr. Chairman. It is also about supporting schools in the implementation of this law. The Minister made important comments on this. During his first term, the Minister and I took a little longer to consider the question I asked about the position of pupils and their parents, which is still at the forefront of the CDA. I don't think we've fully understood each other. I was not so much concerned that schools should be obliged to resort to extreme resources if the responsibility of the pupils and parents really leaves much to be desired. It's much more about what we can do when a school says, "We've done everything we can now. These parents and these students just don't care about our education. What can we then do as a school to protect our culture in the interests of other students?" So that is different from the possibilities that already exist in criminal law, because that is settled, to put it bluntly. What if you're dealing with these kind of reluctant characters? Then you have to do something as a school and compulsory education is often the problem. I call on the Minister to talk to schools about how to solve this problem better. Mr President, the final point. Much has been said about protecting the freedom of education. In my first term, I pointed out the importance of how the inspection dealt with this. The Minister spoke comfortingly about it, also in the direction of reformative schools. I have just pointed out that the reformatory schools say that they think the current concept of the research frameworks is vague. I have also questioned what the Minister's opinion is on this matter. Maybe he can take this with him in his second term. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr Van Kesteren has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u91	Here in this Chamber we review legislation for feasibility and enforcement. If, in practice, it turns out that this change of law is hardly feasible and enforceable, why should you vote for such a law and not just come up with a motion calling on the Minister to actually enforce it? That means closing down schools that undermine the democratic rule of law. That's effective. Then you don't need that legislation at all, because it's in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u92	I would ask Mr Van Kesteren to read the statements on this subject. You cannot blame the minister and his predecessors for not wanting to tackle, for example, Islamic schools. The problem that is more or less settled in your motion is not really there, because there has been a great deal of will in the inspection to deal with the schools. If you read the judgments, you will see that the judge says: what kind of law do we actually have here, what do we actually ask of schools? If you are going to let me say it a little flatly, let me show you a little programme that shows that you are really doing your best as a school to teach democratic values, then you will comply with the current law. It starts with the adoption of this bill and then it is up to the inspection to use this law to tackle schools that do not respect democratic values.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Van Kesteren, last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u94	The Minister made it quite clear in his reply to the questions that it was not said that this amendment would not allow him to be flagged back again. "Doing everything about it' means I commend the Minister for appealing against the decision that you should do everything you can to close such schools anyway. That's what that motion is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u95	The Minister has, of course, chosen the careful wording of a ruler. He'll be careful to tell a judge what to do. But one thing is certain: based on the current law, the inspection got zero when it wanted to tackle Islamic schools and the present law gives at least a hugely greater chance that the inspection will succeed with a judge. So it does start with this law. A motion with "Minister, go after those schools again, because they're making such a mess" is fine, but we do need a stronger law for that, because the law we have now is too weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Blécourt, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister, on behalf of my group, for the comprehensive answer to all the questions. Mr. Chairman. I myself attended the Kees Boekeschool/De Werkplaats Kinder communual in Bilthoven. At this primary school, social cohesion was high and was continuously practiced in the functioning of democracy. Freedom in all its facets was paramount. Everyone mattered and everyone joined in. There was a safe environment, both literally and figuratively. You learned to listen to each other, to understand people who think differently, and there was reciprocity. I've noticed you've been taking those lessons your whole life. This law is therefore very dear to me and to my group. Mr. Chairman. The care for the implementation has been considered. The Minister has carefully indicated that the inspection with this law has sufficient tools if our rule of law is undermined. Mr. Chairman. Teachers must be able to do their job safely. This law is a step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the question of the one-sided teaching material used in schools at present, the Minister said that the inspection would look at broader teaching materials. My group therefore assumes that the teaching material will show a better reflection of society in the future, i.e. not only men but also women as doctors, pilots, surgeons, lawyers, EK-members and even presidents today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Verkerk, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u99	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his passionate reply, inspired by Article 23, but also inspired by Article 1 and the whole Constitution. Mr. Chairman. I note that there is a certain one-sidedness in the debate. There is a focus on Islamic and reformatorical education. The theme research citizenship, in which a select choice has been made in schools under investigation, concludes that the majority of reformatorical and Islamic schools have a good balance between their own visions and the promotion of basic values. But I would like to make two comments. The first point is that the number of schools is so small that those who want to think statistically cannot draw any conclusions from that, nor can they conclude that it is one-sided, as I said. More importantly, I am not a stranger in the Jerusalem of Christian education, let me make this very clear. I think that this law also allows Christian education to be limited to this, because I do not know Islamic education enough to draw great conclusions from it. I think that's a very big profit from this law. The second is that this law makes great demands, especially when it comes to the culture of the school. That is a great demand, because it has to do with security and with the state-of-the-art culture. Mr. Chairman. I have been partly promoted to culture, and I have been promoted to culture in manufacturing organisations. If there's something hard to influence, then it's culture, but if there's something you can measure whether it's good or not, then that's culture too. It's not easy, but it can be. In this sense, I would like to stress that it is very important for this law to explicitly address the word "culture." I would also like to remind you of Mr Sent's poignant sense of a colleague who said: I am afraid to raise everything. When that happens, no law and no inspection will ultimately help, because then it's about culture. That the Minister dares to put that into this law, I find quite a lot. Mr. Chairman. When I started preparing for this law, I didn't feel well at first. This also had to do with the issues of freedom of education. I must say that the more I went into this law, the happier I became with this law. This also has to do with the fact that I have just mentioned that this law is not only about knowledge and skills, but also about culture. Then we talk about a state-of-the-art culture with democratic fundamental values. As far as these basic values are concerned, I have one more point. I asked the Minister in my first term about the interpretation space. I have asked whether the concepts of freedom, equality and solidarity in their coherence and reciprocity include the Christian, humanist and post-modern vision. It would be nice if that question could be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u100	Mr Verkerk rightly draws attention to the beautiful article in which the competent authority is held responsible for school culture, but he also indicates that it is extremely complicated to change culture. So that raises questions about the feasibility. We can measure it, but how does the competent authority ensure that the school culture as expressed in the bill is there? How can that be carried out? What are the recommendations for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u101	In all honesty, such a question goes far beyond the debate we are having today, but I would like to say something about it. The first is that there is a huge symbol value of this legislation. Yes, there must be a culture that is safe, a culture that is in line with the basic values of our constitutional democracy. That's the first thing. The second is that I have at least learned from my research that culture begins at the top. By that I mean that if the top of a school, in this case the competent authority, does not radiate the spirit of our Constitution when it comes to these constitutional fundamental values, it will never be good for a school. If the summit exudes its determination to implement this law wholeheartedly and engages in dialogue within the organisation, but parents may also be opposed to this culture, then that seems to me to be the start of a cultural change. If the summit doesn't want it, no teacher can achieve it, because then it's simply thrown away hierarchically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u102	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u103	Mr. Chairman. The Minister began by saying that this is a wonderful bill. I can imagine. Yeah, I'd like to underline that, too. On the one hand, it has to do with those points of knowledge, skills and culture that really change this bill compared to the past. On the other hand, there is a wonderful balance in the relationship between freedom of education and the need for correctness. Mr. Chairman. Why should we still have religious schools? I should like briefly to refer to the humanist secular philosopher Habermas. Habermas has, by the way, at the end of his life, he's still alive, but he's very old.He's reflected on the question: what is the importance of religion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u104	Be careful of your time, because you have half a minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u105	Yeah, I know. Why would you want religion, is the question. He says as a secular philosopher that we can say again from the religion that there are sources to talk about meaning and meaning. In doing so, I would like to conclude my contribution well in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u106	It's a beautiful ending. Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A brief announcement of a household nature. I will have to leave the debate at 12 noon for all my reasons. For that, I apologize to you, to the fellow members in this house and to the minister. I'll look back on the part I miss, of course. Then it's content. Many of my fellow Members in this House have expressed their concerns about the persistence and feasibility of this new proposal, and I understand that. We all saw the footage from Amsterdam last weekend of a little boy of primary school age on Dam Square who was presumably encouraged by his mother to spy on an Israeli flag. The woman was filming that with enthusiasm. In education, if that's home culture, there's no way to counter that. Education is not a broom car for everything else that might go wrong at home with citizenship education, with your feeling at home in Dutch society. The same applies to children who may learn at home that all the efforts teachers make to keep their offspring free from covid are all mind-control methods inspired by Bill Gates by a government that wants to destroy us. I'm just calling it a cross street that also plays in society right now. Education has its limitations. With regard to the enforcement and feasibility of this proposal, it is questionable whether this will prevent a teacher discussing a Muhammad cartoon from being threatened. I do not think so, but we should not confuse enforcement and implementation with absolutely excluding things that go wrong anyway. Of course, it's not waterproof. This concern has been taken away by the Minister in his comprehensive reply, for which our group would like to thank him. What is constitutionally possible is being done, and that is, of course, never waterproof. Then what struck us further in the answer. In my contribution in the first term, I talked a lot about the explanatory statement that raised concerns about how what it says relates to the freedom of expression and the freedom of discussion that we know in this country. The Minister kept a very reassuring story, but we see almost a discrepancy between the statement of explanation and the Minister's story. So my question is: does the real clarification of citizenship education want to stand up here? As the Minister explains, there is light in my view. I am curious to hear his reaction, but I think, with many other groups in this House, that this proposal can really give more hands and feet to civic education in primary and secondary schools, so that children can at least get in touch with standards and values as we like them to see, regardless of what happens at home or on the street. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you. Mr Schalk spoke and spoke on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Today's children are tomorrow's citizens. Therefore, the citizenship mission should be taken seriously at every school. The present law is intended to clarify the citizenship mandate. I note that the Minister has sincerely tried to position this clarification in a good way, taking into account Article 23 of the Constitution. In the first term, I warned against the risk of pressure from citizenship, and the Minister came back to that. That concern of mine is reinforced because it has been discussed in this debate, and I quote: 'the risk schools of orthodox cut, Jewish, Islamic or reformative'. On the question to the inspection where there are risks, the inspection would have called the reformatory, Jewish and Islamic schools. I find that unheard of and out of order. The review of the 2020 inspection, entitled Citizenship Education and dealing with differences in moral views, shows that recommendations and recovery assignments have been made to schools from virtually all denominations. And with that, all denominations are the same and should also be treated equally, including in the debate and in the handling by the inspection. I ask the Minister if he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u110	This is the second time that Mr Schalk has referred to the inspection and says that the inspection has said so. No, I said this, and that's different. I have quoted from the theme research and that is wider than those orthodox schools. We have also been informed through the media of a number of incidents that have taken place. Those are the categories you mention, but do not put that into the mouth of the inspection, because they spoke more broadly about the risk schools in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you for this interruption. We must, of course, do justice to the inspection, if it had not said so. I took a look back at the text in the first term. At that time, Mr Pijlman did link it to the fact that he had asked a question about this to the inspection. So I've explained it as such. If the inspection has not done so, then that is wonderful, but then we still have to deal with the fact that a lot of schools are being thrown together as risk schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u112	Yeah, that's right, too, if there are incidents in the schools, and major incidents. What happens to children is not good, that has been quoted here several times. Well, then you're a risk school, aren't you? I asked the inspection how she now acts at this type of risk school. I have mentioned examples of this from the theme research. Schools of other denominations are also included, but there are risk schools that have so far done very little with them. That obligation has been in place since 2006.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u113	In reply to that, I would like to say that if there are incidents, then we need to act on them, and I have been crystal clear in the first period. And I am also convinced that this will happen, but perhaps not in some extremist situations, which have also been discussed. We are talking, among other things, about the situation in Gorcum, which has already been mentioned a few times. I want to make it very clear that at the time of such an incident, it is being acted on, not only by the inspection, but also by the school itself. Perhaps the Minister can confirm that in such a case the school itself has been asked: come and investigate this. This must be done in a way that fits in with the way those schools deal with difficult issues in the lives of pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mr Schalk says that the schools are full of good will and will. Well, they did make it happen. It's not nothing that's happened in different situations. In the situation that Mr Schalk has just outlined, it can also help if the inspection looks at these schools precisely there. Because that supervision is going to take a while and still has to roll out. The inspection can see how it's going now. And yes, do they take it seriously now? And yes, do we now ensure that this safe school culture is created for all pupils? And yes, is the rule of law respected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u115	The strength of the Minister's speech was precisely that. I really wonder if this is going to have to be done in a different way than it has been until now. The Minister explained that there are actually three layers. The first is the general survey once every four years, or perhaps a little earlier. The second goes on the basis of themes. And the third goes on the basis of incidents. And then the inspection has to act on it, and that's what happens. I think that if mistakes are made, that must be done, and then there must be an act. I do not think it will take a specific motion to designate all these schools as risk schools and to say: go and monitor them first. I therefore hope that this motion will be strongly discouraged by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the inspection, in particular, I have a question about the scope of supervision. Does this have to do with the question of whether schools are sufficiently accountable for the way in which they organise citizenship education? Or does that also cover the substantive choices made by schools? I called that in the first term the "how" and the "what." I'll come to the I.D.'s. Thank you for confirming to the Minister that there were declarations of identity that are no longer being used. But then I noticed in this debate that it will not be good soon. Because now it turns out that the disputed statements of identity are no longer used, the next step is that an identity profile should not include: "In our appearance, too, we let the distinction between man and woman laid down in creation be reflected." I quote this literally, just like Mr Ganzevoort. I ask the Minister: can you put that in the identity profile, or not? Because I personally find it very far-reaching to link this to the gender expression from the General Equal Treatment Act. I don't want to ridicule it at all, but if you're not careful, the schools shouldn't be able to record that there are girls and boys.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u116	It is very nice that Mr Schalk does not want to ridicule, but he does not succeed. With this he does not do justice to the situation. We're talking about young people in a school like this who find out that they don't feel at home in their offspring. They find out they don't want to wear the clothes of the offspring. We can't find out at that school. So that is a suppression of gender expression, and that is at least equivalent to the General Law on Equal Treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u117	I personally see that in a very different way. In the identity profile we are talking about in this case, you mentioned the profile of the Pieter Zandt college........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And one of the aspects mentioned in it is that in our appearance we show the distinction between man and woman in creation, and that is reflected in it. That means that the school looks at it in a certain way from faith. It's okay. Of course, that school is held to act in a good way when there are students struggling with their identity, for example. At least in the schools I have a bit of a picture of, a lot of attention is paid to that. I already reported last week that I am a member of such a network of social security and sexual diversity. Is that always okay? The answer to that question is "no." But at the same time, when we should not be able to place these kinds of comments on the basis of which a school works, we are, I think, just getting further and further away from home. I'm really just genuinely worried about that. That also worries me very much about the outcome of this bill if it is accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u118	We will be hearing it from the Minister shortly, because this is what Mr Schalk and I share. We would very much like to share the view that we both want to hear from the Minister what he thinks of such a wording. As far as I'm concerned, it's really a form of gender ideology. Gender ideology is that you impose a certain vision. And what is happening here is that a certain vision is imposed on the parents and also on the pupils. Because that is how it is described in that wording. We will hear from the Minister whether he thinks this is appropriate. I would particularly like to ask Mr Schalk the following. How can you ensure social security and space for students if you at the same time give no space to a certain group of students on an essence of what is important to them in their identity? That's actually my most important question. It's a pedagogic question. It's not a question of whether you should find something of gender "be my guest" but what do we do to make life more difficult for these students?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u119	I find it very complicated when Mr Ganzevoort asks me to show that the remark made here in such an identity profile would be a gender ideology remark. I have tried to use the word gender ideology with all due care in previous debates, but also in this debate. And I set out an ideology last week, like that sociologically is also very often seen as something that is intended by a certain group of people. And that's about gender right now. Here you could say that a creation ideology is used about man and woman. I think that's okay. They just asked, "How do you deal with these students?" I hope to say a little more about this in the speech in a moment, but as far as I am concerned, the teaching mission and the duty of care for every person, every child, are beyond me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u120	That is what my question related to what Mr Ganzevoort said. Because what if a child doesn't feel at home in his or her body? So how does a school like that deal with that when it's in a statement like that? That was exactly my question. I do hope that you will come back to that in your further speech. And if not, I'll be right back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u121	Maybe I can answer that right away. The question of how the school handles this is, of course, a very direct question. Well, by speaking with such a child in a careful and good way. The school may also indicate the position of the school, but there is a need for it, and that also happens to be an explicit consideration of how it feels for such a student and how it experiences it. In my humble opinion, it is not the case that at the moment when a child or young person reports on how he or she feels, it must immediately lead to enormous problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u122	I certainly hope not. I hope that kid can just be himself. I hope we live in a time where it is and can be everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mr. Schalk, briefly. And then you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u124	Perhaps it is just right to look at what schools have developed in that area in the period behind it. I think it was very little developed if we look back 20 years. I note that, at least in the case of the denomination that was quite often discussed today and last week, namely the reformatory schools, there is excessive attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u125	That's good to hear, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u126	Sorry, I didn't get the last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u127	I said, that's good to hear, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u128	You're welcome, of course, I'll tell my colleague. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore genuinely concerned about the consequences of the co-legislator's approach to a number of issues in both chambers. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that I believe that there should be a safe environment in schools and that pupils, staff and parents should know the way to raise issues, including a person of trust. But I also think that there should be and should be room for the basis of the school, for religion and belief, of course, subject to everyone's responsibility under the law. I have to say that, for my group, the consequences of this law are not yet easy to assess. The concerns I had about this have not yet been fully removed by the legal process. This is without prejudice to the importance my group attaches to good citizenship education. That is why my appeal to all schools is public and special, orthodox or liberal: raise our children, give them a safe place, give them a listening ear, take care of the teaching assignment, use the freedom of Article 23 in the knowledge that it also entails responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I was addressed several times in the reformatorical education, for which Scripture, the Bible, and confession form the basis. So let me end with a personal word: all education, including citizenship education, I see as a special mission that must and may be carried out coram Deo, before God's face, and that is mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u130	Mr. Chairman. As I noted in my first term, this bill is symptomatic of the Minister's unambitious policy of mud. The structural problems in Dutch foundation education have not been sufficiently addressed in the past cabinet period. Daddy and wet is the motto of this minister. And now the cabinet is going to spend 8.5 billion euros on the national education programme, N.O.P. If you say it quickly, "NOP." It is understandable that there was a lot of discussion in the cabinet about the efficiency of this minister's approach. This is entirely in line with McKinsey's extensive and very thorough research from 2020, entitled "A strengthened foundation for everyone." It drew hard conclusions. Dutch education policy is not effective. The money is not being used effectively. The decline in quality among the Cabinets Rutte, measured by the PISA score, is dramatic and the differences between good and bad schools have not increased as rapidly in the world as in the Netherlands over the past ten years. To the great regret of our group, this unambitious and megavage bill for clarifying the citizenship mission to schools in the foundational education sector fits perfectly with the failure of this minister's policy over the past period. We therefore hope, for the future of the youth of the Netherlands, that this minister will not return to this department in the next cabinet. Mr President, so much for my second contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u131	Thank you. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? I'm gonna suspend for a few moments anyway. Then you can organize your things. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u132	I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for your second-term contribution. Mr Ganzevoort continued with an interruption debate that we had about the space that must be available for students who are transgender in all schools in the Netherlands, regardless of denomination. I am pleased with the addition he himself gave in his second term. He indicated that there is a freedom to which content may be given, but that it can abrade with the equivalence of students in this case, and that there is ultimately a pedagogical responsibility at the schools to give these pupils a safe place there too. That is exactly how we should look at these situations together, and that is how I see it myself. That means there's plenty of room to find things and also to have regulations in the school. But the moment they start sanding and colliding with the identity and also the equivalence of students, we must fully stand in front of the students and ensure that they have a safe place. I was also pleased that Mr Schalk indicated that safety for all pupils, including transgender pupils, could also be a determining factor in other situations. I would like to add this point in the direction of Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Schalk. Mrs Sent indicated that we had not chosen to include citizenship in the curriculum review, but that was never the intention. That is not the current situation either. The current situation is that there is a separate general citizenship mission. In addition, the law establishes that there is a curriculum, which is already available for citizenship, but which we would like to add with the insights of recent years. At the time when we would link the revision of the general citizenship mandate, which has a separate legal basis, to the curriculum review, which has never been the intention, that would also mean a great deal in time. We'd have to wait a lot longer for that. That is not necessary and, again, that is not the current situation either. We must, however, continue fully with the curriculum adjustment. I have indicated that because of the outgoing state of the cabinet it is now a bit difficult. But the scientific committee is giving its advice and I hope that will be continued soon. Then there is the debate on implementation. Others have also brought this up again. Yeah, it's tricky. I have no reason to pretend here that if this law is passed and we have amended the general citizenship mandate in the law and made it sharper than suddenly the implementation will be one hundred percent. That's why I keep pointing out that it's important that we start this now. Fortunately, there are a lot of schools that are already very far away in this respect, but there are also those that sometimes have to go a long way. We will continue unabated, including in the support of the schools, to ensure that they carry out the task they are now being given. The fact that there can sometimes be practical problems in the school, including in the humanisation of the school...................................................................................................................................................................................... As far as I am concerned, that is not a pink elephant. Mrs Van Vroonhoven has even been personally appointed by me to do her work and has been able to give her advice in all space and freedom, which we are currently working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u134	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u135	Maybe one more thing about the performance. Is the fact that we know that it is going to ask a lot, by the way, still depending on which schools it is going to ask about? I don't think so. It may even be a bigger reason to do so, because it is important that it is clear and clear what is expected of schools and what they should work with. Then, of course, we have to put our hands on each other. I have no doubt about that. There is a lot of enthusiasm and also a lot of intrinsic motivation in the schools to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u136	I would like to ask the Minister to highlight very clearly what he has promised to our Chamber about how we will be informed about the implementation of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u137	It happens in different ways. First of all, the inspection itself naturally supervises. I shall come back to this point separately later on in Mr Pijlman's motion. The inspection therefore keeps its regular monitoring and therefore reports on the state of play at the schools on this subject. In addition, research is being carried out at system level. This can be done through thematic studies, but also through survey studies and reports on them in the State of Education. There will be action if there are really excesses or calamities where it is really necessary to act quickly. Then the inspection will. Reports will take place on all such situations that will also be sent to this Chamber. So we'll keep the Chamber informed. I have also promised that all letters relating to the progress of this process which will go to the House of Representatives will also be sent to this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kesteren has tabled a motion which states that the inspection and the minister cannot enforce the supervision of the implementation of the citizenship mandate. If this motion were about the current law, I would have agreed with him. But with this new law, provided he has sufficient support in this Chamber, the inspection is much better equipped to do her job. I cannot be expected to do so, Mr Doornhof has rightly said that I am going to sit on the judge's seat and tell him what to do and demand 100% guarantee. That's not how it works. Often a judge makes a broader assessment, which can be part of it. Then I am sure that I have the courage to say quite clearly here, if it has to be with capital letters, that this law offers much more possibilities, including legal ones, to act if we find abuses that we do not find acceptable and also want the situation to change. We are also in the process of making changes to the instruments of inspection. That's a separate piece of law. That bill has just come back from the Council of State, so we will still have to assess it, but then too, the outgoing state of this cabinet does not really play a role of acceleration at the moment. Here too, we are working to be much more appropriate when there are abuses than is the case with the current legal instruments. That really transcends this law, and you shouldn't want to regulate it in this law. That is, once again, another route. I advise against this motion. First of all, the assumptions are already incorrect and, again, if antidemocratic ideas are involved, then action can simply be taken. In the extreme, this could also lead to the closure of the school. I have to put it another way: that could lead to the inclusion of funding, which usually means de facto closing down a school. I do not need this motion to act against it if that were to be the case. Mr. Chairman. Mr Pijlman noted the embarrassment of action on the wider issue: what are you doing in this society with situations of anti-democratic, as I would call it, anti-integrative ideas and their expressions? This is an issue that can be revealed in schools. Then we have more to do with this law than with the previous law, but it is a bigger issue that goes beyond school boundaries. In many ways, not just without obligation, there is very intensive cooperation by authorities, but also by governments, especially the municipal government with the government, to support them in doing the good things. In this way, it can be ensured that such ideas, if they exist, are quickly detected and, especially if there are criminal offences, can also be dealt with. We can also ensure that we can provide support in schools so that they can get out of their way with this beautiful citizenship mission that is there and can reach students with it, including the children who come from such families. I do not know if the information that regularly goes to the House of Representatives also goes to the House of Representatives. I'll check that out. If that is not the case, I will ask for it, because this is extremely interesting and indeed very relevant. I am not very pleased with your motion, I say to you openly. I'll tell you why. First of all: in extreme situations, as a ruler, you give an indication to the inspection to do research. That's what you do in extreme situations. I did that once. That was very specific at the Jewish Orthodox school. The investigation showed that there had been situations that had not been properly completed and could not be accepted. Then I asked the inspection to do more research. But you're actually putting three denominations in the suspect bank, I'd say. If there are signals in a school that indicate that there should be focused attention, then that should also be done, regardless of whether those signals originate from the school, the media or research of the inspection. That applies regardless of which denomination the school has. But this is almost a kind of denominational profiling, and I really don't recommend that. I don't think it's necessary either. With this law, as well as with other legislation, the inspection has sufficient power to act where necessary, including in the excesses which occur and which we should not allow for. I can say to Mr Schalk that it is indeed true that the reformatory school that was in the picture the other day asked for the inspection to be carried out. That's the way it's supposed to be, because that's when you're supposed to find out what happened there. It hears that you may change your school policy at the moment that mistakes have been made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u138	I'm rather sorry the Minister calls it that. I do not mention at all in the operative part what you apparently read as operative part. We say that the inspection is a priority to monitor the implementation of the above-mentioned legislation on risk schools. In the examples I have indeed mentioned reformorical and Islamic schools, but I have also referred to the theme research. It states that this law was not implemented in respect of other denominations at the time. It is a pity, therefore, that you are putting this into practice and that you are actually following Mr Schalk's interpretation. It doesn't say that. I am concerned that although the interview with the inspection showed that there are enough instruments, we also need time to roll them out completely. In the meantime, I think it is necessary that you continue to look at some of these schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u139	The motion explicitly states "these risk schools." You also expressed it denominationally in the explanatory statement you gave. If I've misunderstood you, I'd like to hear it. If you ask me if the inspection is going to apply the law directly to risk schools, 'risk school' means that there is a signal that something is not right, then the answer is: yes, of course, that happens from the very first moment. But that's no matter what denomination. The theme research showed that there was also a public school where things were not in order. I think it really listens very closely, even in the wordings you use in your motion. I don't need a motion for that either. If it really has to be by means of a motion, it should be in the form that I should give instructions to the inspection, because the inspection is completely independent, including in the way in which they conduct their investigation and supervision. If I am going to interfere as a minister, then I must also have a reasonable reason to do so. I don't have them in general for those and those denominations, like: put them in front, because they're suspicious. You are not saying that, and I am actually very happy that we have this exchange with each other for a while. It would have been a very annoying misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u140	Again, I have already referred to the theme research in which there was a public and a Catholic school. I mentioned the incidents that came to the media in particular. In the operative part, you could delete the word "this" because I agree with you that that may refer too much to those denominations. You could replace that with "risk schools." And then you say, yes, we already do, so I don't need the motion for that. Did I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u141	That's right. Then this motion is really unnecessary. The first task of the inspection is simply to carry out regular investigations everywhere. That was always four years, but that can now be more if there is reason to do so, for example if a school is weaker and needs more supervision and support from the inspection. The second is the thematic studies. They're just gonna keep going. They will also continue around citizenship. The third is: if there are signals, in any way whatsoever, so via the media, the school itself or former pupils, then they may give rise to the inspection to move. Think of the situation in Jewish school, for example. Really, I had a stomachache. I thought, "If what really happened there is true, then I can't just go on. That needs to be looked at." But this is already part of the way they work. You ask me to pass on to the inspection that we think that is important, but again, that is for them a support of how they are already doing. I really don't need this motion for a resolution for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u142	With that commitment... you have already said: I am going to make sure that you are informed about this and I will once again convey to the inspection how important that is to us. I have already said that it is not a question of hanging denominations here. That's not the point at all. It's about getting rid of these things, because that's what they are. It's not nauseous what happened in different schools. But then I can withdraw the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u143	But there is no doubt whatsoever about what you said last time: we are not going to condone those situations that have occurred in any way. There must be action. Luckily, the schools sometimes do. Thank you very much for withdrawing this motion. I think that will help the debate. Then Mr. Doornhof...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u144	Minister, one moment, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. Mr Doornhof thought I might not have fully understood him, but I think I understood him. Maybe my answers weren't entirely in line with what he wanted in response. Of course, the instruments available to the school in relation to students who do not comply with the rules within a school are not affected. The ultimate remedium is that a student can even be expelled from school. That is entirely the case. But of course that is not an ideal solution, even with regard to what a school would like from its educational responsibility for a student. That is why we always have to look at such a last option before a school, to the maximum extent possible. That is where a school can also call for external assistance, which is an appropriate solution for this student, who does justice to a school that wants to set clear standards and that wants to maintain them, but also does justice to a student who has a whole life ahead of him. You very much want it to happen not only in a criminal sense, but also in other ways, so that he can develop, to take his place as a fully-fledged citizen in this democratic rule of law. This is not always easy, but there is support for schools to find a way around it. Then about the profile organisations who thought the research frameworks were too vague. This concerns the current research framework. If this law is actually accepted by you and becomes law, the inspection will come up with a new research framework. That's not quite ready, though. That will be completed this month, I think. Then implementation will be communicated, including towards schools, because it makes clear how supervision is being carried out, one-on-one linked to the law. I will also send you this monitoring framework when it is formally completed and can enter into force from August. Then the inspection also takes some time to give the schools room, regardless of the excesses, because it simply needs to be dealt with. This law will also become part of the admission of new schools. We have had a nice debate on this before. At the front, schools will be judged on the way in which they want to organise their education. This will also help, because then they will also have to have a vision of citizenship, so that we can assess at the front whether it provides sufficient support, space and confidence to give such a school the space to finally get lost. This law, too, I would like to say to Mr Van Kesteren, I know his doubts, is really important for that, because the old law does nothing about it. In that respect, we really can't do anything with that. Mr Verkerk had a nice speech, I may say philosophical one, but that is of course his background, in which he went directly to daily practice in schools. Then you can see that sometimes philosophy can be very close. He has said that it is important for schools not to choose the easiest path, although they will not always experience it that way. This law could also provide support. The point is that they really do work on citizenship, even if there are issues and themes that can be considered difficult. It may vary by school which theme that is. I agree with him that we will have to formulate much more clearly what we want to do with citizenship, beyond merely expressing a core objective in a lesson and giving a teacher responsibility for it. Security is a key word, even when it comes to this bill. There must be a safe school environment for everyone. In line with what Mr Schalk asked about how and what matters when it comes to the area and freedom of schools, the answer is: the way it is always about schools, the what gets tighter when it comes to the formation of citizenship. That is one-on-one the way we have done that in the legislative proposal, and we have done so very clearly on the basis of key words. This is the case, among other things, with freedom, but it has also been worked out in other key words. In the case of equivalence, Mrs van den Hul's amendment once again introduced this into the legislative text. I found that, I'm telling you quite frankly, legally quite a bit tricky. Then I don't mean in terms of content, but in terms of law, because you do with one basic value and not with the other two. Anyway, the House of Representatives has decided in its wisdom to do so. I have heard a number of you enthusiastically about this even in the first term. So be it, but the equivalence between those basic values remains the same. It's not like one is more important than the other. They have to relate to each other again. The implementation we give to freedom brings about a number of rather tough things, which schools will also have to abide by. They will end up in the review framework, but it will also, of course, allow us to give our own assessment, perhaps also on the basis of the conviction that we have. They have to show in school practice that they give hands and feet to it. That will also be monitored by the inspection. You may use your own language dress, but the inspection will look very clearly at what is in the law, what is in the school's plans and how this relates to what is happening in the school. I mean not only the lessons, but the whole school climate or culture, as has been said so beautifully, which is indeed difficult to change. But we have to get started. This also starts with a clear standard. We do, I think, much tighter in this law than we did in the previous law. Mr. Chairman. I have answered Mr Schalk's questions about the identity profile, and I have said that we must also fully stand for transgender pupils, that we must give them a safe school environment. I think I took the other questions on that at the same time. I would like to thank Mr De Vries for his words of appreciation. That was heartwarming. I also had a very nice debate with him about this law. That's very good for me. Mr. Chairman. Then I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u146	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u147	Then I'm gonna come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. I shall now suspend the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
