ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	Good morning, everyone. The next item is the amendment of the Telecommunications Act to introduce an opt-in system for the transmission of unsolicited communications for commercial, ideal or charitable purposes to natural persons. Welcome to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate, and of course to all the members and the people who are watching at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Eight speakers have signed up. The first is Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We all know it: you just sit at the table with the family and brag about it, and the phone rings. "Good evening, am I speaking to Mr or Mrs...?" Over 90% of the Netherlands find this annoying. The moment, the manner of approach and the fact that one is approached unsolicited are perceived by consumers as very annoying. For years, the ACM's consumer point of contact has received thousands of complaints about telemarketing. There are now 10 million phone numbers registered in the bell-me-non-register. These are figures and signals that call for action. It's hard to understand that you can get another call, even though you are registered in the call-me-not register. The CDA upholds the principle of self-regulation where it can and legislation where it should. This is where legislation is in place. Conversations with telemarketing clients and contractors to improve self-regulation have not yet led to the desired result. We could read that in the explanatory memorandum. That is why it is right that the Secretary of State should come forward with this legislative amendment. The CDA is in favour of an opt-in system for telemarketing to protect consumers and other natural persons from non-authorized sales calls, the possibility for AMvB to set a deadline for the customer relationship to serve as a basis for telemarketing conversations and, thirdly, the improved enforcement possibilities for the ACM, the reversal of the burden of proof. We believe that these three measures represent an important step forward in consumer protection, which is the focus of this legislative proposal. In future, I would like to consider three different groups affected by this proposal. First of all, the consumers. It is a good thing that, within the scope of this legislative proposal, entrepreneurs without legal personality, such as those with a one-man business andzzp'ers, are also covered by "natural persons." Showing contact details in the Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce cannot be considered as permission for the transmission of telemarketing. I saw that Mr Bruins had also asked questions about this in the written round. In addition, several consumer organisations are still concerned about the so-called self-regulation option for the sector to set a deadline for customer relations. The bill stipulates that, if there is a customer relationship, a call may still be made under conditions. The sector has been asked to use self-regulation to ensure that this is done in good time. The sector itself is keen to do so, but it is important that this is actually taken up in concrete terms. The Secretary of State has indicated that if this does not materialise or if self-regulation does not provide sufficient improvement, it will itself set a deadline through AMvB. Fine. As a criterion for the assessment, the State Secretary uses the extent to which improvement is taking place in relation to the five identified bottlenecks. There will be a periodic flash poll commissioned by Economic Affairs to assess citizens' attitudes towards telemarketing. In addition, signals from consumer organisations will be taken into account. Three further questions on this subject. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this self-regulation is maintained? Does the Secretary of State regarding the customer relationship with definitions such as "like offers such as the product you have already purchased or purchased" not also provide a grey area? How long will the sector parties with self-regulation have the time to improve before the Secretary of State intervenes per AMvB? Is there a deadline for this? As a second group, companies using telemarketing as a marketing channel or by providing telemarketing services to others. The Secretary of State states in the explanatory statement that they will be affected to a greater or lesser extent by the introduction of this opt-in system, especially when they are still fully dependent on unsolicited telemarketing. There has been no SME test due to insufficient participation of entrepreneurs, and according to SME-Netherlands, the biggest impacts are not among SMEs but among large companies. Does the Secretary of State have the impression that they are sufficiently prepared for the introduction of the bill? Finally, as a third group: the charities. With regard to the opt-in system and the customer relationship, for the CDA, the charities really take a different position than commercial companies, but for the time being that distinction is not clear from this law. Charities don't call for themselves but to do something for someone else without a profit. Good causes are of great social importance and their income depends to a large extent on telephone recruitment for funds and volunteers. The proposed opt-in system limits them in their ability to reach potential donors and volunteers. This is particularly critical of the financially driven definition of the customer relationship. At charities and charities we do not speak of customers and involvement in the KWF, the Prince Bernhard Cultuurfonds, CliniClowns, NBG and Jantje Beton et cetera does not only have to consist of a commercial or financial relationship. Many Dutch people are involved, for example as volunteers. Can such a foundation no longer reach and involve these people? We don't think that's what we're supposed to do. For this reason, the CDA, together with GroenLinks, has tabled an amendment aimed at completing and improving the concept of customer relations for charitable organisations separately without affecting the proposed opt-in system. We propose not only the financial relationship, the sale, as a customer relationship, but also if someone can be shown to sympathise with a good cause, evident from volunteering or attending a manifestation. This broadening of the concept of "client relationship" enables charities to continue to recruit donors and volunteers, which is particularly important in this corona crisis. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Like Mrs. Palland, I recognize that annoying call when you're just very busy. And such a conversation is always completed with the announcement: if you no longer want to be bothered, you can register in the call-me-not register. I never do, because I always think, "I'm gonna bug them for a second, I won't save them that time to call me for nothing." That is, of course, only a very small act of resistance and not very useful either. We have a law in front of us now. That's much better. I think it's good that we're going from the bell-me-not register to a bell-me-wel registry. By the way, I wonder who's going to sign up there, but we'll see about that. I also welcome the fact that we are joining the EU e-Privacy Directive, which states that consumers should be protected from unsolicited communications. Like the CDA, GroenLinks has a dilemma with this bill. That's about the charities. In recent years, more and more tasks that are supposed to be in the government's hands have been divested and taken over by charities. I would like to mention two examples from my other portfolio of Agriculture, Nature and Food. That's the Marker Wadden and the Fish Migration River. These are two projects that were ultimately co-financed by the government, but were initially set up by the charities. They have encouraged this in a set of all kinds of organisations. These organizations are called the Bird Protection, Natural Monuments; such clubs are dependent on gifts from their members. The way they approach their members is by phone for a very large part. Especially at this time of corona, there are no alternatives. You can't go home easy anymore. The Secretary of State writes in response to our questions about this that she expects the charities to be as innovative as possible to continue their working methods. My question to the Secretary of State is: what does she mean by that? Does it have any suggestions for these charitable organisations in relation to this innovative method? The charities themselves don't know, and I don't have that many thoughts. Companies that sell products can keep calling if they have a warm customer relationship. For example, a product has been sold and you have a warm customer relationship with someone. That's financially driven. But charities don't sell a product; they sell an ideal. You can also have a customer relationship without giving money to a certain ideal. The CDA also talked about this. That is why, together with the CDA, we have made an amendment excluding the charities from this new law, which we wholeheartedly support. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Madam President. For everyone I haven't seen yet another happy New Year, because unfortunately we don't see each other much because of those covid-states. So is the Secretary of State. By the way, I was just in your area on a job visit. You live beautifully there. I can be brief about the amendment of this law. We support them. I think it was a hammer piece, too. Because I have been a telecom spokesman for a long time, I can remember that everyone has always been in favour of this. I've never heard anyone negative about it, so I'm not going to say anything about it. My group will simply support the proposal. I should like to await the response of the Secretary of State to the amendment in a moment. I'm always as low as possible to make exceptions. Why should you be harassed by certain authorities and not by others? I don't see it that way. I would have liked to have had a reaction from the Secretary of State. What I did like...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	A question to my colleague from the PVV, who has a warm heart for the animals. Especially the animals are often represented by charities. The Animal Protection and a lot of other clubs stand up for the animals. How does Mr Graus look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	There are plenty of opportunities to raise funds or to encourage people to make donations. I see a lot of animal organizations watching the Animal Lock Foundation do it by radio or by television. That's how it all works. Let's face it, before all that was possible at all, you didn't see so quickly before that animal organizations, perhaps outside WNF and so on, made commercials on television. But that brings in a lot of money, and I think it's also the best way to do it, often also by showing horrible images. I also did this on the regional TV Limburg station, where I had an animal program. I always showed the most horrible images and then you saw that at some point people were willing to give money. But it was rejected a lot by the editors. If animal organizations show the most horrible images, even here in the Netherlands, then you will see that the money flows automatically. But unfortunately, there is often a certain censorship. I also think, for example, that Mrs Bromet, who will also be appealing to you, should teach children in schools where meat comes from, that it is a piece of a cow's buttock. I bet 90% of the kids that night don't want meat anymore. And when they see how milk is made, they don't like milk anymore. But we all remember that, me too. So I am much more in favour of visible information to get money in the drawer. I think that's the best way. I also know from experience that that's the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	So if I'm ever gonna be president of a big animal organization, that's how I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	Perhaps these are the innovative ideas the Secretary of State also referred to in her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	The best wishes for Mr Graus, of course. I fully agree with you when you say that we should be very reluctant to make all kinds of exceptions. I get that. But to put it bluntly: the amendment does not say that charities are no longer covered by this law. They're all in it. The only thing the law regulates is that you can still be called if there is a customer relationship, so by companies if you have ever ordered anything there; then you can be contacted by that company within a certain period of time. Charities don't buy a product, but they can also have a relationship with people. What we are dealing with or intending to do with the amendment is that this relationship fits in with what charities do. So if you've volunteered, if you've actively participated in manifestations, that's the relationship. Under conditions, you can still participate. Would Mr Graus not take that into consideration after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	Sure. I am going to study the amendment very carefully immediately and I would also like a response from the Secretary of State, the shepherd, the keeper of our sheep. I must, of course, advise the group and, of course, we must also look at what the group says about it. Because everyone is always saying that the PVV is some sort of North Korean thing, but of course we have absolute democracy there. Voices are sometimes counted with us too, and if it is half plus one, that's what's gonna happen, you know! Even if Mr. Wilders and I are with the small minority who aren't gonna make it, it's gonna happen, because that's how it works anyway. It is always put forward so nicely, but there is nowhere as much democracy as at the PVV. I believe that Mrs Palland, who spoke before me, referred to the SME test. Here's what I'm noticing. That SME test concerns an adopted Graus motion. Forum sometimes forgets that, the gossip magazine of VNO-NCW. It's called "Forum." It's kind of the Private and the Story of VNO-NCW. They didn't say a word about it. It's all been kept small. I also notice that the government does rather little with this SME test, while Leendert-Jan Visser... Often nothing is done with it, let me put it this way. I just heard Mrs Palland say it again and I hear it in other debates. The key must have been deployed a few times. I remember that Leendert-Jan Visser, the director of SMEs Netherlands, called me and said: Dion, now you have written history; a historic breakthrough for SMEs. I notice that it's all been kept very small. Possibly because it's from the PVV, but I always think it's so lame. That is what happened to the animal police, the best-functioning police force of the national police. It's all being kept very small and stupid and it's being made fun of, but they're taking on so many assholes from society and so many people who would later commit crimes against people. This SME test could do a lot of good for SMEs, because it is also designed for that, of course, but it is relatively little done. Mrs Palland, thank you for mentioning that. Therefore, relatively little is done and I hope that the SME test will be used more by the Secretary of State. You may only have a few weeks or a few months left of course, or you may still be outgoing for a few months. In whatever capacity you come back, I hope you will continue to have a warm heart. I don't need my ten minutes. What I want to end with is this. Someone we probably have in our midst for the last time is Arne Weverling. There may be more. I'll see the fucker coming back. There's nothing we can do about that. Every time, he gets somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u16	You forget Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u17	So is Mr Moorlag! But I definitely thought I'd take Mr. Weverling out. Why? Look, Mr. Weverling, I met before he became a Member of Parliament. Then he was alderman in the Westland. We paid a working visit there with the permanent committee for LNV. It was about the greenhouse horticulture. New LED lighting was introduced, allowing plants to grow better. It was also good for the control of parasites and you name it. I remember well: he was glad as a child as an alderman and proud as a waterer; he walked there proud as a waterer. I remember getting a light organ when I was eight. He was so happy with the LED lighting, in his enthusiasm. Then Mr. Weverling came here to parliament. What I want to say here is that there is something very strange in politics. Mr. Weverling has been an entrepreneur like me. There aren't enough entrepreneurs here. I've been an entrepreneur, too. So did Mr. Weverling, and so did you, Mrs. Palland. There aren't enough entrepreneurs. The weird thing is, all business people can talk about it. In business, if you perform, if you're honest and you keep your appointments, you'll be rewarded for that. But in politics, it isn't. I see more and more people disappearing from lists. I have a lot of trouble with that. I've always given up on the untrustworthyness of many politicians, but if anyone doesn't belong to them, that's Mr. Weverling. He's been in the Chamber since 2017. I've worked closely with him all these years, and I don't know anyone who's so trustworthy and honest and funny. He is also available day and night. You can call him at 11:00 to talk to him. Others are all over the place, or do I know it all? Mr. Weverling, I would like to thank you very much, even though you have not kept one appointment with me. I'm gonna rub it in anyway. You were going to visit the national police, Mrs Duijnker, the national coordinator. You still owe me that, even if you're not here in a minute. Then you'll have more time for it. But I want to thank you very much and I am very sorry that people like you... In business you would drive the fattest car and you would get the fattest bonus, but in politics it works differently. I find the reward system of politics very sad, but you are worth a 10 to me, and I may even say an 11 as a Limburger. Thanks for that. Mr. Moorlag, I'll see you again, and so will Mr. Futselaar. I'm sure of it. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you very much. We shall now proceed to the next speaker. That's Mr Futselaar. I hope this does not follow suit. I understand that everyone wants to seize the opportunity, now that he is back in the Chamber, to start evaluating and thanking everything, but I would like to stick to the telecoms law. Mr. Funtselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr President, I was just about to tell you about my childhood!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr. Chairman. Dutch people experience unwanted telemarketing as a problem. Previous speakers have already referred to this. In practice, the current opt-out system is not good enough to protect consumers. Where the rules are actually tight enough, we see that telemarketing companies do not always follow them in practice. In this context, it is good that the cabinet has come up with a proposal for an opt-in. That bill can therefore count on the support of the SP. As far as we are concerned, there is a weakness in the proposal. There's a gap in the proposal, and I have a specific question. I'll start with that question. The proposal is aimed at natural legal persons, in simple language 'people', not companies, because businesses must be able to trade among themselves. But of course you have the group ofzzp'ers and one-man companies that are only a natural legal person or in any case do not use any other legal person for their business, but are actually a company. I would like to see confirmation that this bill also provides for this group to be included in the opt-in. It is precisely thezzp'ers who are registered somewhere in a Chamber of Commerce that suffer from unsolicited marketing, which, by the way, always involves a fixed amount of scams. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the weakness of the bill lies mainly in the period when data from a customer relationship can be used by telemarketing if there is an existing customer contact. The cabinet is primarily based on self-regulation of the sector in this area and has the option of setting a legal deadline through an AMvB. As far as the SP is concerned, a maximum period of time is an excellent thing that you regulate legally and not something that you leave to the sector. Let us also remember that the reason why this law is now being submitted is precisely that the telemarketing sector has not been able to meet standards collectively in the past. I do not want to fail the entire telemarketing sector, but there are parts that we can see that this is the case. As far as we are concerned, it is an unwise and perhaps rather naive step to bring that deadline down to the sector. In fact, we would like to call on the government to make immediate use of the possibility of setting a time limit per AMvB, preferably one that is significantly shorter than, for example, the three years that sounds from the sector. We think three years is a very long time. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the lacunae of this bill. He's insisting that there's no action against colportage at the door, too. This is a telecom bill, but it is obvious that companies that are already not so close to the rules in telemarketing, if they are restricted, will shift their fields of work to selling at the door, and that is an area where we are already seeing a lot of abuses, especially in the energy sector. There is now a rather high stack of complaints and reports about sellers who give too little information to customers to make a good choice, misleading information or simply incorrect information. We also see that companies specifically find out where people live with the lowest incomes, who can't actually afford to miss a potential advantage, neighbourhoods where people on average may be less literate or neighbourhoods where people speak the language less well. Then you can see that people are being abused and that they get stuck with sometimes very unfriendly energy contracts. Mr. Chairman. I understand from an earlier letter from the Secretary of State that European regulation makes a ban on sales at the door impossible. I regret that, but I would at least like to see whether we cannot go to a ban on long-term contracts at the door, because that is, of course, what the problem is. The problem isn't someone who sells eggs you take or don't take. The problem is to enter into long-term contracts, where you cannot see the consequences of the commitments you make. The existing legislation, even in the case of colportage at the door, is subject to some self-regulation. That's causing a lot of trouble for households. We propose that we do something about this and would also like to ask for additional legislation in this area. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you. I call Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't leave the Secretary of State in suspense. The PvdA Group will support this bill. This is a desirable development. We're going to better protect consumers from unwanted calls. I'm gonna miss some calls. Not because, as Mrs Bromet says, I would like to do an act of resistance. But I spoke to a telemarketer once. It was heavily in my irritation zone. I said to her, "God, you must have a horrible profession if you have to harass people like that." And she said, "Yeah, do you know something better for me?" It is therefore not always a pleasure for telemarketers to make telephone calls. She also explained that she was trained with the doctrine that if a customer once said no, that was not a no. If a client said no twice, it wasn't a no. If a customer said no three times, that customer may have meant no, but then you had to check it out just to be sure. Mr. Chairman. People who are mature can defend themselves well. But there are also people who are vulnerable and it is good that those people will be protected. Following what Mr Futselaar says: a phone call that comes in is annoying, but people who come to the door and who also tend to put a foot or a bag between the door are at least as annoying. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she also considers that to be an interest to be protected. In an earlier debate, I called for a non-call register, in line with the non-call register, as a symbol of better protection for consumers who are approached at the door. The Secretary of State is a missionary, so I'm not gonna call her to do anything more actively. However, what she could do is to identify the extent to which this is also too important to protect and whether measures should be taken, and to make sure that the ACM has a proper inventory and a map of the instruments that can be effectively used against it. Because consumers also deserve protection at the door. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA will support the CDA and GroenLinks amendment. I believe that we need to deliver tailor-made solutions for ideal organisations and charitable organisations. I do have another question for the Secretary of State. To what extent have we defined that sufficiently well? What is really an idealistic organization? I know people who make maximum money find a very ideal purpose. Have we defined that enough? Are these public utility institutions, i.e. anbi-institutions? Or does that include other organisations? Because I know organisations that have an ideal objective, but do not have an anbistatus. Think of the trade union movement, for example. If activists have been at an action event somewhere and registered there, you can call them afterwards to ask them if they want to join that union. My question to the Secretary of State is: have we defined that sufficiently? I assume the law will be reviewed. Shouldn't that also be a point of attention in the review of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr Moorlag refers to the trade union movement. For example, I see that the FNV has an anbistatus, so I think that anbistatus is a very useful instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u24	If you pay union contributions, you can set them against your gross wage, but that's not seen as a gift. I don't know if all trade unions have an anbi status. This may be true of CNV, but there are also many category trade unions, so I think this should be a point of attention. There's gonna be more border traps. Every line you draw always creates at least two border cases. But we're making legislation here. I would like this to be carefully removed, but I would like to await the answer of the Secretary of State. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. In this corona crisis it may be the category of "small suffering" that everyone has been sighing on the phone because, mostly around dinnertime, a telemarketer is calling to sell you something, but for thezzp'ers it is one of the great annoyances. ZZP Nederland calls it "telephone terror." In the meantime, many people can talk to you at the end of the conversation, drawing your attention to your rights in telemarketing. "If you stay on the line for a while, you will be offered the right of resistance and the bell-me-non-register by means of a tape." Mr. Chairman. It is good that there is now a legislative proposal that puts an end to these small and great frustrations and that the direction is returned to the consumer: call me. There are two things I would like to discuss further. First of all, the charities, already mentioned. They may use contact details obtained through donations. But with charities, nonprofits, it's not all about money. Charities are also about volunteers, about sympathizers. Although research shows that 52%, the majority of people, never appreciate being called by charities, there is at least 48% that it doesn't find a problem. I therefore welcome the fact that there is an amendment for charities. With this bill, non-profit organisations can reach almost half of the population, including volunteers who do not contribute financially. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent the importance of consumer privacy outweighs the importance of volunteers and sympathizers for good causes? Second, in 2019, the Chamber of Commerce stopped selling phone numbers for commercial purposes and masse. The numbers could only be obtained through an extract from the Trade Register. Ifzzp'ers allow direct marketing under this new law, do they run the risk of their phone number being resold? Can giving consent to telemarketing result in the distribution of contact information? Can the Secretary of State monitor or do so in the introduction test for this change of law, in a year's time, together with the Dutch Data Protection Authority, so that the legislator or co-legislator can intervene where necessary? On this point, I would like the Secretary of State's confirmation that this will not happen. When this bill is adopted, canzzp'ers be assured that the Chamber of Commerce will no longer sell their telephone number? And is the Secretary of State prepared to carry out the new introduction tests to check the implementation announced last Friday in response to the Unknown Unlaw report? Soon we will have execution tests in the introduction of a law and introduction tests to check the implementation of a law. The coachman brushed the stagecoach with stagecoach polish. It's a fun debate anyway, Mr. Graus, I wish you a blessed Easter. This is just a nice piece of legislation, with beautiful amendments. Here and there a little more need to be polished, so if you stay on the line, you will be offered the right of resistance and the bell-me-wel register by means of a band. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you. I cannot see whether Mr Bruins has stayed within five minutes; the clerk nods. I call Mr Arne Weverling of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Graus for his fine words. The pleasure has also been great on my part, Mr. Graus. Mr. Chairman. Almost everyone in the Netherlands is familiar with telemarketing: phone calls that always seem to come at the wrong time, for example when you're baking pancakes, and rarely offer something you're really waiting for. Telemarketing is a form of marketing where once you've answered the phone, you can't avoid it, while many people simply can't wait for it. That is why it is a good thing that we move this bill from an opt-out, the call-me-non-register, to an opt-in. This can be supported by the VVD. The success of this bill falls or stands with good enforcement. Only if there is strict enforcement of offenders can consumers be protected from nuisance. For example, we can see that things like e-mail marketing are not doing well enough. It is forbidden, but there are still a lot of unwanted e-mails being sent every day. At the beginning of this year there were no less than 3,000 complaints to the Dutch Data Protection Authority about violations of the ban on spam. Without proper enforcement, the same is likely to happen with the ban on unsolicited telemarketing. Can the Secretary of State explain what the enforcement of this law looks like? Is there sufficient capacity at the ACM to ensure effective enforcement? And can we also maintain unwanted telemarketing from abroad, now that more and more call centers are being moved there? Not only consumers are harassed with unwanted calls. This also happens to numerouszzp'ers and other independent entrepreneurs. Their home address and telephone number can often also be seen publicly through, for example, the Chamber of Commerce Register. These people just want to do business and not be harassed all day with phone calls and phone sales. Can the Secretary of State explain whether this law can also deal with unwanted harassment of independent entrepreneurs? And how is she going to ensure that home addresses and telephone numbers ofzzp'ers are no longer publicly available? As far as the VVD is concerned, the current legislative proposal strikes a good balance between reducing the burden on consumers and continuing to offer business opportunities. Companies must, however, remain in a position to continue to approach existing and former customers. At present, by means of self-regulation, the sector has set the time limit within which this is possible, the so-called customer relationship period of three years. However, the bill does contain the possibility to limit this deadline by an AMvB. This possible AMvB creates uncertainty for consumers and businesses. That is why I have tabled an amendment which requires that the relevant AMvB general measure of governance be put forward so that the Chamber can check that a maximum period is proportionate and necessary and that consumers are adequately protected. Can the Secretary of State also undertake to inform the Chamber annually about the customer relationship period, the success of self-regulation and the results of consumer flash polls? Then I'll come to the charities. This amendment I have tabled is not the only one. Another amendment is aimed at broadening the customer relationship concept, but only for charities. The explanatory statement of this amendment states that the proposed opt-in system limits charities in their ability to reach potential donors and volunteers. As far as the VVD is concerned, reducing the possibilities of contacting people by telephone is precisely the objective of this bill. A telemarketing call is no less annoying because it happens to be a charity calling. It is about reducing the burden on consumers and it is not about making a distinction between where the call comes from. We therefore call for equal rules for every variant of telemarketing. Mr. Chairman. I've come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u29	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u30	Okay, here's the thing. It is, of course, up to you to consider it and say: we do not want to make an exception. The amendment says that the charities fall entirely within the scope of this law, but the term "customer relationship" is different from that of a commercial company. Does Mr Weverling agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr Weverling agrees. But when is something a good cause? We were just discussing Mr Moorlag's anbistatus. If you've been on a manifestation, you're also sympathetic to a charity. How can you indicate whether or not you have been served to be approached when you have been to a manifestation? We think that is a grey area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u32	As far as the scope of these charities is concerned, our tax legislation provides sufficient basis. We can join in on that. Attendance to such a manifestation is the same as for the commercial companies: the contact details are obtained with permission at that time. If you buy something, you leave your data. That could also be the case with a manifestation. So it's actually the same concept, specifically focused on the situation of charities. That is the only thing the amendment advocates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u33	All right, thank you. I'd like to leave the answer to the Secretary of State. For the time being, we're against it, but I'm gonna let it get to me again. Thank you, at least, for your interruption. I shall then come to a conclusion, Mr President. This bill is not the greatest political feat in the cabinet, but it can help to reduce annoyance. With a few minor adjustments, this bill can therefore count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you. Then we'll go to the last speaker. That is Mr Verhoeven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr President, I may need seven minutes. My apologies. Since this debate is now planned in these times, I thought: I have two other points that I would like to address briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u36	If you stick to the subject, I'll take over the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u37	Sure. It fits seamlessly, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the word, as my colleague Stieneke van der Graaf of the Christian Union always says. Good thing we're standing here. I can be very brief: we will support the law. The example of the hypothetical pancake-baking person being disturbed, we had already seen come along. That is indeed one of the many examples that we all encounter. So this is a good proposal. Opt-in instead of opt-out is an approach that D66 very much likes. Explicit explicit consent to make something happen is part of the way we like people to be treated. We have often had discussions in this Chamber about how to explain explicitly. I think this is a pretty clear way: you can say yes or no. The discussion is more difficult when it comes to whether you have given permission if you click on something on an internet website. Here it's pretty clear. So we will support the law. The same applies to Mrs Palland's amendment, which seeks to give charities a little more space to continue doing their fine work. I think that's a fair addition. Mr Weverling said something else about this. I understand, moreover, that this is his last plenary debate. In any case, it's times of loss in the coming months with all those outgoing MPs. He said there's more to it than that. We also see offline unsolicited communication. The Outbreak Management Team gets threatening letters. The lawyers of star witness Nabil B. are threatened with death. My colleague Rob Jetten is visited at home by Farmers Defence Force. Last week, general practitioners at their private address received a letter from complete thinkers' group Virus Truth. That's undesirable and intimidating. Where did these communication moments come from? From the Land Registry and the Chamber of Commerce. They have data that is simple to use. The Chamber of Commerce even sells them actively as part of its earning model. This has been going on for a long time. Various groups in this Chamber have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to this issue. D66 has done so again recently in the written consultation we have had on this subject. I would have preferred to have continued written consultations, but Corona would not allow that to happen. So I think I can bring it in here, because it's really about something that is very much in line with this law, which is the unwanted harassment. Mr President, I see that you are also looking at me in agreement, or at least you are looking in agreement as I make this little bridge. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: how is it finally going to stop these practices completely? How does the State Secretary prevent government organisations from facilitating the spread of fake news? Can the Secretary of State promise that the Kadaster and the Chamber of Commerce will no longer provide private addresses as soon as possible? If she is unable to do so, I will be tabling a motion on this in the second term, because I think that after ten years I should really have a clear answer on this subject. It must also be clear to the Chamber whether or not we are going to allow this to continue silently. We've let this happen for ten years now. Every time there are former colleagues, journalists, whistleblowers and all kinds of other people who say "I'm harassed again at my private address," while a checkmark with which you just say "I'm azzp'er, I work at home and I don't want to do this; I'm independent, I don't have another office and I don't want to do this" is very simple. It's just unwillingness. Finally, my final point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u38	It must be a point which relates to the competence of this State Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u39	That is absolutely what it is, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u40	In fact, I hear a number of issues that I think lie with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but the Secretary of State will have to say so himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u41	No, no, the Secretary of State himself answered this question in writing, so this really belongs to this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u42	Then your final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u43	It's about the charities. Mrs Palland, of course, has a point. Charities are important. Charities do good things. Depending on the goal you stand for, that is of course always pleasant. There must also be room for them, especially in these times, that these charities should continue to be able to find their donors and their contributors. Charities depend to a large extent on the Postcode Lottery in their financing. The Postcode Lottery has a earning model based on people's psychological fear of losing something. That's the psychological fear that your neighbor or neighbor will join us and win a big prize and you'll be the prick in the street who's the only one with nothing. That's a great psychological fear. Many psychologists have written about the fear of loss. That's exactly what the Postcode Lottery plays into with her earning model. That perverse psychological incentive is dubious and combined with an assertive marketing strategy to continuously send letters and all kinds of other communication signals to households that have not asked for it, so it is also a component that touches on this law. The almost philosophical question is whether you are a supporter of utilitarianism or of deontology. Are you a Jeremy Bentham or an Immanuel Kant? Do you think an act in itself can be bad or good or do you think an act can be justified by its consequences? Those who say the Postcode Lottery can use that perverse psychological model because it gives so much money to charities, say you can do something bad to achieve something good. I myself don't think it's a good idea to psychologically harass vulnerable people with a earning model. There are also people who say: no, the act in itself is bad; you should not do this, regardless of the fact that the money goes to those charities. In that case, I think I'm on that side of the line. I've asked about this before. I want to know from the Secretary of State how she looks at this. When we talk about these things and we deal with these laws at the moment, we also have to think about the desirability of the fact that the Postcode Lottery is an organization that makes a lot of money with a lottery system, with a psychological incentive that affects people, and that it then gets a nod of approval by many groups, in practice for years, because it gives that money to charities. I would like to raise that question here. I don't want to give the answer yet because I find it difficult, but I tend to think that we need to narrow this down a little because it's also about giving a good cause a little extra money that they could use for something else. I just want to know what she thinks of the Secretary of State. I won't table a motion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u44	I find this complicated, because this is a subject that is covered by the gaming policy. That falls under the Ministry of Justice and Security. An interruption by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u45	I would nevertheless like to support Mr Verhoeven. I'd like to sign the motion, because it's annoying to me too. I have said the same thing, and I will introduce a new word to it: I personally sit down all the way to here, regardless of the fact that people are completely sick of it. I believe that Mr Verhoeven has every right to bring this in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u46	I think Mr Verhoeven had just indicated that he did not wish to table a motion. Mr Verhoeven, very briefly, because this is not really about the Telecommunications Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr President, you are right. I'll be brief, too, to meet you. It gets to the subject. But we're a parliament. Over the past few years, we have talked a lot about the moral side of things. We talked about earning models and control systems. This is an example of an organisation that everyone says "what a good thing they give so much money to charities," but that doesn't make us look at the fact that there may also be people who feel compelled to participate. It's one of the things I've been wondering for ten years why we never talk about this. Then I thought, you know, in a few months, I won't be here anymore, and this is really something I really want to ask colleagues. So, what do we think about this? It's a serious point. The dependence of these charities on this way of getting money is in proportion to Mrs Palland's good proposal, which says: let the charities just go to the people themselves, so that they decide whether or not they want to support that charity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u48	I'm going to see Mr Bruins. We should not have an extensive discussion about this. I am happy that farewell colleagues all want to speak on all kinds of issues, but the gaming policy is really something of the Ministry of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u49	But Mr Verhoeven is going to table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u50	No, Mr Verhoeven has said that he is not going to table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u51	About the Chamber of Commerce and the Land Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr Verhoeven is not going to table the motion, so if you want to table a motion, you have to make it yourself. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u53	We have indeed been saying goodbye to Mr Verhoeven for weeks, in a beautiful way. So if I am in the Chamber, then the goodbyes are for Mr Verhoeven. In this case, however, I would like to congratulate Mr Verhoeven on his consideration. It takes a courageous politician to also show doubt and contemplation, this type of reflection, especially in this important dossier. I would therefore like to congratulate and thank Mr Verhoeven for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you. Then Mrs. Bromet. I take it about her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u56	No, Mr President, about Mr Verhoeven. I think it's a good argument, too. It is the dilemma that GroenLinks is also struggling with. I would like to add one more thing. The government has withdrawn into a lot of areas and the charities are now jumping into that hole. That is the dilemma we are facing. When Secretary of State Bleker came to power, I thought nature policy was something of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u57	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u58	My question is this. I became a member of the Postcode Lottery because I thought: at least then money goes to those good projects. I canceled that later because I had that courage. In his speech, Mr Verhoeven says that you have to be brave, because the neighbours can win. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me that there are a lot of gaps due to national policies, when we simply have public tasks in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u59	I think that's true. I do indeed think that a combination of developments has played a role in this process, which ultimately led to this model. That is what we are all saying, shrugging our shoulders on: this is what it is. I don't have the solution now. I will be very brief; I know you are not waiting for this, Mr President. I once had this discussion with a very esteemed colleague of yours. I will not mention his name; that would not be neat, because it was a conversation. I realized that you can look at this subject so differently, and that's why I don't want to do it questioningly, but more questioningly. But if we allow this to happen in this way, we will do something that I know psychologists will say: you are vulnerable households that already have a very narrow scholarship, in a very influential way, because that is what is tempting it to put a little bit of money into something that they will never win a prize with, leaving that one mini-mini-mini-small-chance exception. Then it's actually said: how fantastic that these charities get so much money from that organization. I don't want to blackmail the Postcode Lottery either, because she also has good people and good intentions. Only, maybe they don't even know that's how this works. Maybe they've been doing it for a long time and they always will. And then it would be weird if we never talked about it in our parliament. Mr President, so far. And hopefully until next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you. We have arrived at the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs twenty minutes to prepare the response. I shall therefore suspend the sitting until noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u61	I call the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u62	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a bill that is also called "a ban on telemarketing," subject to conditions. My predecessors and I, as well as Members of Parliament, have, of course, heard and heard many signals from consumers in recent years about problems and irritation caused by telemarketing. And whether you're making pizza, chips or pancakes, we all know those moments, now also from far abroad. And what I've never done before, because I'm always just talking to people... I had another one last night, in English. For the first time in my life, I cut off the connection without saying anything. And that scared me a bit, because that's not how I am. But then I really thought to myself: yes, now it is done. Meanwhile in English, from far abroad... The last time I did listen, someone brought up the fact that my computer system needed an update. Well, then I thought to myself, "What the hell is going on here?" But that's what this is about. Studies simply show the high rates of irritation in people due to telemarketing. Wherever you can then ask yourself: what is the effectiveness of this; what is the end result for companies that use it? The ACM and the Consumers' Association also receive many complaints about telephone sales. And programs like Radar and Kassa have also spent many items on this. The European Commission has proposed the e-Privacy Regulation to better protect consumers in Europe from telemarketing. So also from that side an incentive to talk about this. First of all, consumers simply do not appreciate being called unsolicited with an offer. Eight out of ten, so average, indicate in a recent investigation that they find it annoying or very annoying that they are being called. In addition, almost 10 million telephone numbers are listed, as Mrs Palland recalled, this is already in the call-me-non-register. I also found that many people don't understand or get confused about the opt-out system as we have it now. They say, "I signed in to the bell-me-not register," right? But they do not know, for example, that they can be called by companies with which they have ever had a customer relationship, and the right to resist is often unclear. There is a simple solution to this. And that's this bill, which is to switch to an opt-in system for telemarketing, so you have to say in advance that you appreciate calls. With this we protect people in the Netherlands better from telemarketing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u63	An interruption by Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u64	I was a little confused by the example given by the Secretary of State at the very beginning of her speech about her being called by English-speaking characters. I happen to have seen a whole program about that this week. That's often about bad guys. To what extent is this example that it gives, now illustrative of the functioning of this bill? Because I don't think this bill works against criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u65	No, it was an example to indicate irritation levels. But thank you for the question, because that can only be explained. With the opt-in system and with the conditions in the law, i.e. reversal of the burden of proof and the withdrawal of anonymous telephone numbers, the Authority can also better supervise Consumer & Market. In the current system, the ACM must demonstrate that a telephone call has actually been made and that the telemarketer has spoken to the subscriber of the telephone number; that is, the person whose name is a subscription. And in practice that also turns out to be very difficult. Maintaining by the ACM, as said, is therefore much easier because a number has to be shown. That way we can keep cowboys out of this sector. I am convinced that this bill will make a significant contribution to solving the problems I have just raised. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked to me. What does the Secretary of State mean by "innovative methods for charities to find alternatives"? Do I have any suggestions? Yes. In fact, I constantly meet only entrepreneurs who have all kinds of new ideas and come up with innovations to keep on doing their job, to keep on doing it. For example, you can be asked for a donation after paying a tap. Whether that will be possible in the future, of course you never know. At the same time, that is the downside to this debate on innovations. Perhaps at some point they will come up with something which is very justified in their interests, namely enterprise, but which we are all saying here: but that was not the intention; that is not the intention. Mr Graus also gave a number of examples. I also see the commercials on TV passing by, especially from charities of animal organizations. The images shown in them certainly encourage them to make a contribution to this. I have great confidence in the entrepreneurial Netherlands to finally come up with alternatives for this. Mr Moorlag of the PvdA Group asked me to what extent we have sufficiently defined good purpose organisations. What exactly is a charity? Do other organisations fall under this heading? Is it about organisations with an anbistatus, for example? Firstly, this is an amendment to the Telecommunications Act. In it, a charity, or a charitable institution, is not defined. However, it is of course important to point out that organisations with an anbi-status, for example, are included. But it's not just the question of who's calling, it's also the question of why's calling. Then it depends on what kind of charity is at issue at that time, for example. If there is a disaster somewhere in the world, it can of course be a good cause that we do not know yet. I have not received any signals that in practice this leads to ambiguity, neither in companies, nor in charities, nor in the supervisory authorities. I don't see why you should take a definition now. At least we have the anbistatus. Moreover, in practice, the supervisor should consider whether this is an organisation covered by this objective. When Mrs Palland's amendment is adopted, it will at least clarify the situations in which contact may be made, other than for the purpose of making a financial transaction. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent the importance of privacy outweighs the interest of sympathizers of charities? Sympathizers of charities, of course, also have the right to privacy, I say to Mr Bruins, because the question comes from him. The amendment weighs more heavily on the apparent importance of charities in this context. I can imagine that, too. I would like to say immediately that I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you. The amendment in part No. 11 gets judgment room. There is an interruption by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u67	It's a very open standard now. I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State is putting it into practice by saying that organisations with an anbi-status are included. I also said in my contribution after an interruption: you can't control and limit everything, because every line you draw creates new border cases. But does the Secretary of State agree with me that if the law is to be reviewed at any time, this should be a point of interest? Because my fear is a little bit that these commercial organizations, which often show great creativity, are going to look up the edges and go over them. I also believe that we should not leave it entirely to the courts to decide whether something is an ideal organisation or a good cause, rather than the circumstances of the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u68	I think it would be very wise at some point to take a good look at whether this is being done in the right way. At the same time, we should not underestimate what the regulator can do here and what, moreover, puts public opinion in the balance here. Because if you impersonate yourself as an ideal organization when you're not, then we know how to deal with it quickly and effectively in this country as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the debate on self-regulation. Mrs Palland asked me: can the Secretary of State indicate how this self-regulation is maintained? In the event of a breach of the Telemarketing Code, the Advertising Code Commission may make a recommendation or give an opinion on certain actions. This committee can also spread a ruling, so that it comes to the attention of a wide audience. DDMA and KSF can sanction members' violations in accordance with the rules. Finally, the ACM may in some cases play a role in any violation of the Telemarketing Code. Thus, ACM can act against unfair and misleading commercial practices. The violation of the code of conduct can be classified as a misleading commercial practice. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Palland asked me: does the Secretary of State on customer relations foresee a grey area, for example, with definitions such as "similar offers"? The explanatory memorandum, as well as European directives, contains what are'similar offers'. In my mind, it says so on page 8 of the explanatory statement. There are no signs that the interpretation of this definition has caused confusion or problems in recent years. Mr. Chairman. How long will sector stakeholders with self-regulation have time to make improvements before I make use of the general governance measure set out in paragraph 9 of the new Article 11.7? The sector is now working for more than six months with a code of conduct, in which they have agreed a three-year deadline. The latest survey shows that consumers are still dissatisfied with telemarketing. I expect to be able to say a little more about this at the end of the summer, because then we will be working with that term for a year. I would like to give the sector a reasonable opportunity to prove itself with this new self-regulation. Mr. Chairman. That is also the answer to Mr Futselaar. He asked me to do it right now. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about SMEs andzzp'ers. Is this proposal aimed at natural persons? This proposal also applies to independent economic operators without legal personality. sole proprietorships, companies under firm, limited companies and companies continue to... "Keep enjoying against telemarketing too," it says. That's a little weirdly put. Not only consumers, but all natural persons are protected by this bill. Mr. Chairman. I would then like to ask what a large part of this debate was about, where, as you rightly pointed out, we sometimes deviated a little from the order of this sitting. But I'd like to say a few things about that. The Trade Register Act sets out the purposes for which the Trade Register processes data. Legal certainty in trade is one of those objectives. If you have a conflict with an entrepreneur, you should be able to find that entrepreneur. You have entrepreneurs who have their location address at their home address. If you shield that, you run the risk that an entrepreneur will no longer be found in the context of a conflict. I see Mr Verhoeven standing up and coming forward. It's not the first time I've said this in this room. It has been told to you several times, for example in 2018, in the note following the report on the amendment of the Trade Registry Act. You could do something else. You could choose to give only police, justice, lawyers, governments and so on access to those addresses. Before you say 'well, then we're going to do that', I think it would be wise to think as carefully about whether you consider that desirable because of legal certainty in trade. Because it means that when you have a conflict with another entrepreneur, you always have to take on a lawyer. You have to wonder if all the entrepreneurs are so happy about that. And the registration in the Trade Register is of course also just an opportunity to find an entrepreneur if you want to use his or her services. I think the Dutch Union of Journalists has solved it differently. It has offered journalists who have their establishment address at their home address to have the establishment address at the address of that association. I believe it is the Dutch Association of Journalists, but keep me for the better. That is, of course, also a solution in this whole discussion. As an entrepreneur, you can also choose a location address in another way. At the moment, I still believe that we should not change this because of the legal certainty in trade and other interests of economic operators. I would like to inform your Chamber that, before you make such a bold statement, it would be good to look into the consequences of this and into possible other solutions. That is without prejudice to the fact that there are situations that Mr Verhoeven has made clear in which you really wonder if the senders have them all in a row, just to put it very popularly; think of the threats of members of the OMT, for example. There are other interests to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u71	This is something that has been going on for a long time, so I know the arguments used by the Secretary of State, and I have weighed them several times. I think the Chamber has already weighed it several times. In my view, the argument of legal uncertainty in trade is in itself a reason why one could say: there must be something of accessibility for a requesting party. But that could also be done in a different way than through a public register. There are all kinds of examples where it is possible to exercise supervision without the information required being fully public. You could say, for example, that if you have a check mark with which you say "I don't want my private data to be visible to everyone," it may be possible that either the Chamber of Commerce or any other organisation plays a role in making it accessible in a trade dispute. But those kinds of solutions need to be seriously examined now, because what we have now is simply not a good system. I am therefore aware of the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State, but I do not think that the arguments are sufficient to maintain the situation that we now have, which is undesirable. So we need to find something else. I myself have been in contact with the Chamber of Commerce on this subject and I always notice, and now in the answer, that there seems to be some sort of resistance, that the situation is simply not resolved. It's one of those files that lasts for years, just like that file of those bsn numbers and the tax numbers that match with the zzp'ers, so as a zzp'er you have a social service number that corresponds to the tax number. Also something very strange, of which...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u72	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u73	I say that both dossiers have been causing problems for a long time, repeatedly for large groups of entrepreneurs. I think we should look for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u74	We're really taking steps in that. The amendment of the Trade Register decision which removes residence addresses which are not also locational addresses will come to an end in the short term. It is still awaiting the opinions of the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority, but I want this summer to come into force. So home addresses disappear behind a lock. This leaves the residence addresses which are also locational addresses. If your Chamber believes that this should be done in a different way, it is obviously up to your Chamber. But here's what I'm saying. Before you say this has to happen, think about the consequences. 'Cause there are. If, in a conflict with an entrepreneur, you can only find out the address of that other entrepreneur using a lawyer who also costs money, is it worth it to you? Entrepreneurs who agree that they can be found through the trade register therefore take away that possibility. Perhaps there are other solutions, for example an interbranch organisation that is dedicated to being an address for business. So I definitely see the problems thatzzp'ers run into. I can see that. At the same time, therefore, we need to find the right instrument with each other to prevent this, without the disadvantages that I have just outlined. But maybe there will be more if we've really looked at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr Verhoeven, finally on this point. I would like to say a few words, because it is about another law, namely the Trade Register Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr President, you have said this four times. I think that this is quite appropriate and I do not think that we are debating for very long. I have good news for the Secretary of State, because I have learned a lot in the last ten years, and also a thing from the CDA. That's because you should never throw away the baby with the bath water. That is what different rulers, politicians and wise people of CDA-house have always said to me in my sturm und urge to settle things. I also think that we have seen in recent times that too much effort to solve the problem can lead to new problems again, so I am listening to the Secretary of State. I hear her and I take her seriously. I would also like to give her some room for implementation to solve the problem, but as a Chamber I would like to set a framework. And I don't want one thing anymore: that everyone's private address is in public registers. So I am going to table a motion on this in a moment, saying very clearly that I have heard what the Secretary of State says, that I see that it has been going on for a very long time, but that I have an eye for her reflection and that I think she should find a solution within that space. But what we have now, I want to change. Because if I don't change that now, then I've let this happen for ten years and nothing has changed at all. I spoke about ticks in the register in 2013 during the discussion of the EZ budget; I talked about them endlessly. So it's not like I got a call here once from an angry entrepreneur who says "need, do something about it," and then I run to the Chamber and file a motion. That's not how it happened. I hear the Secretary of State and I've learned from the CDA: don't throw away children with the bath water; keep the good of something, change the bad. I ask the Secretary of State to change the bad and I have an eye for the implementation problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you. Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'm waiting for a motion. If I have it in front of me, I'll pass judgment on it. One last comment. Of course, it is not the case that everyone's home addresses are public. If that Trade Register decision comes into force in the summer, if it is all a bit of a coincidence, then we are still talking about the home address, which is also the location address. But that is exactly what the problem is, and Mr Verhoeven wants to know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u79	Those are...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u80	No, Mr Verhoeven, you'll have to wait for the chairman anyway. Interrupts go in two. I said "finally," so I ask the Secretary of State to proceed with the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u81	Then I do Mr Verhoeven a service by saying that they are hundreds of thousands of people; I know that. We have an awful lot ofzzp'ers in this country with their location address at their home address. But we heard each other right. I'll await the motion. Then I'll come to the door for sale, colportage. You have to say it, Mr President, because this is a completely different subject. So I'm a little hesitant about going into that now. But you have to say it, because you're the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u82	I'll take a look at the MPs. Yes, I always think we should stick to the subject, even though we may have time, and certainly with the Secretary of State who is talking about it. We are talking about the Telecommunications Act, so I am also looking at Mr Futselaar to see if he can discuss it in another debate. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u83	In my opinion, the Secretary of State is about it in the first place. The reason why I'm raising it here is because I think it's pretty obvious that if you limit certain things through a telecom law, the companies behind them, then look for other methods. There's one of them that's ideal for colportage along the door. I understand the argument "it's not in the law," but I do think we have something that could also be the direct consequence of the law. And I also think that we should look at that as a room. That's my motivation to talk about this. Whether or not that is within the order, I shall, of course, leave it to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u84	I'll see if the Secretary of State can give me an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u85	Yes, you can, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u86	Then let's do it very briefly. Otherwise we will have discussions all the time, and we will have more time to do so than to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u87	I'll be brief. Do I think that people at the door are also worthy of protection? Yes, of course I do. That is why there is also a rather extensive form of regulation. For example, consumers are extra protected when selling at the door. They have a 14-day reflection period. There are self-regulation initiatives that allow people with stickers not to appreciate colportage. Municipalities can play a role by imposing an obligation of authorisation or notification or by introducing a restriction on places and times. Last year I brought a motion from Mr Beckerman, your well-known chairman, to the attention of the ACM. He's in the middle of an investigation. So I suggest that we wait and see at some point whether there is more need here. Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendments. I have already given a ruling on Mrs Palland's first amendment. The second amendment, tabled by Mr Weverling, I must advise against. It is cabinet policy to discourage amendments with a pending procedure. The starting point of existing legislation is that no formal involvement of Parliament in delegated regulation, such as general measures of governance, unless there are particular reasons for that, and I do not see them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you. Then there is Amendment No. 9 dissuaded. Mr Weverling has an interruption on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u89	Does the Secretary of State say that all the amendments adopted with priority clauses have always been dissuaded by the Cabinet in the past? I'd be surprised. I can check it out, of course. What would be against just giving this judgment Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u90	I cannot give an opinion on this, because I did not carry out that examination of all the amendments. I will only indicate what the cabinet policy is unless, as I say, there are particular reasons for it. I don't see them here. That is why I advise against this amendment. For the rest, of course, it is entirely up to the Chamber. I see it becoming more and more frequent to avoid the possibility of a settlement of pending procedures. At some point, of course, the working stock of your room will also be large. Since I am on a list, I am a little worried about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thank you. Finally, Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u92	Well, that's just... Let me concentrate a little bit on my last contribution. But, of course, it's bullshit what the Secretary of State is saying right now. Anyway, that's up to the Chamber. So you just don't want that amendment and you think the veil is bullshit. That's what I'm getting out of your words. It is about the three-year period. A veil is something that the Chamber can just arrange? Well, I guess you don't want to. I'll have it judged by the Chamber in the votes, won't I, Mr. Futselaar, Mr. Moorlag, Mrs. Bromet? Well, thank you. Well, I guess we're all going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you. The amendment continues to be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u94	In the end, the judgment of everything is up to the Chamber. That's how democracy works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u95	That's a truth like a cow. You were done answering the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you. Then we move on to the second term of the Chamber. I call Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I believe that the debate indicates that the whole Chamber is in favour of the legislative proposal. We have to deal with this. Of course, it also affects how consumers are approached or how people are approached for commercial purposes. That touches on a lot of other themes. They also passed by, a bit side by side with the legislation before us this morning. It'll make you think again. I should like to thank my fellow Members for that. Other legislation and other subjects will be dealt with in their own way. Let me turn to the amendment. Thank you for allowing the Chamber to adapt and for not having any objections. Just before the Members who are going to discuss this in the political groups, it is not the case that charities are excluded from the whole of the law. The point is that we give the customer relationship, which gives commercial companies the title to approach people, specifically for charities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you. Mrs Bromet has waived her second term. Mr Graus has already done so... Come on, Mr. Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u100	I don't need a second term, but I'm signing Mr Verhoeven's motion on selling the private address.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u101	I assume that Mr Verhoeven will read this as such when the motion is tabled. I call Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. Still, about colportage at the door. Maybe I just didn't describe it well enough. As far as we are concerned, this should have been in the legislative proposal. That's the reason for naming it here. That is why I have tabled two motions for resolutions on this subject, because the problem is very serious. The Secretary of State himself mentioned the research that the ACM has been doing for a long time. I think that research has been going on since February. The Ombudsman also gave an opinion on it. There's a long list of complaints. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in addition to telephone commercial acquisition, consumers also suffer from unsolicited acquisition at the door, where some suppliers have problematic behaviour, such as unclear and even misleading information, specifically in the energy sector;]] [[noting that these aggressive methods of recruiting energy companies have already led to warnings from the National Ombudsman and an investigation by the ACM;]] [[considers that everything possible within national and European legislation should be done to prevent such problematic behaviour;]] [[calls on the government to bring forward legislation, for example an amendment to the Colportage Act, to prevent consumers from entering into long-term commercial obligations at the door,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35421-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would like to emphasise explicitly that these are long-term commercial obligations and not simply sales at the door, as far as I am concerned. I hope there's some room for that. Mr. Chairman. One particular problem is that because of this misleading information people conclude several energy contracts at the same time, because they do not realise that their existing energy contract is going through while they are concluding a new one. This has to do with deception and must be prevented in our view. That's why. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in practice it is now possible for consumers to enter into a contract without their existing contract being dissolved, partly due to unclear and misleading information;]] [[noting that in practice this could lead to unintended long-term double commitments by consumers which could cause financial problems;]] [[considers that this is a very undesirable situation;]] [[calls on the Government, if necessary in consultation with the sector, to ensure that this situation can no longer occur,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35421-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would point out that the last motion does not explicitly call for legislation. This can also be regulated, if necessary, by the sector itself, with the pernicious self-regulation that should occasionally be referred to. As long as the problem is solved, because it is something that is problematic in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u105	Thank you. I call Mr Moorlag. No, he's dropping his second term. I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I have one motion, but only after I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in response to the report, the Cabinet expressed its intention to review the implementation of new legislation one year after its launch by means of a so-called introduction test;]] [[noting that in the past the Chamber of Commerce has resold contact details to companies for commercial purposes;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness of this amendment is highly dependent on the implementation and in particular on how the Chamber of Commerce handles personal data;]] [[calls on the Government to review how personal data are handled in implementation, including the involvement of the Personal Data Authority, in the introduction test on the amendment of the Telecommunications Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35421-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions from my hand, but I understand from Mr Graus that it is my last contribution today. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for this wonderful period in the House of Representatives. It is incredibly honorable to be a representative of the people, and it is also really valuable to hold this beautiful office with you all. Whether you're working with Mrs Bromet, who has very nice stories about West Friesland or North Holland, which is special. Working with Mr Futselaar is also always a celebration, or with Mr Moorlag with his beautiful Groningen puns: also very interesting. Yes, and Mr Graus, he has said so many fine words that I cannot compete with that, but he is also very dear to me, with his beautiful Limburg tongue. A special word of thanks to my staff. Of course I want Thijs Kruger recorded in the Acts and his predecessor Arie Roest. I couldn't have done this job without them. The same applies, of course, to the policy staff. I'm not going to name them all, because I see the chairman looking a little bit, of: Weverling, shut up, and of course she's right about that. I've got one minute, 54.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u108	The question is, of course, whether I should talk it over. I don't know if I'm doing the right thing. But it's a time when you're standing here for the last time. I started as an alderman once. You'll be a member of parliament. Then you'll be standing here and you'll just have 12 years of public administration on it. Then you think: well, you actually did make your contribution to making the Netherlands a little more beautiful. I've done it with great pleasure. I don't know what's gonna come my way next. I had the pleasure of checking three ladies. It was interesting to check Mrs Keijzer for EZK and to follow the 10,000 steps she takes every day. Of course, there was the pancake moment. The rolling balls we did about the Post Act, the Telecommunications Act and 5G was very interesting. I was also allowed to check Mrs. Schouten at LNV. That was another way to roll around on all kinds of other files. It was also very interesting and very interesting to be able to check Mrs Kaag at BuHa-OS. I think I'm gonna leave it at that. Thank you all very much: thank you to the messengers, the caterers, the security staff and the clerks, who were always busy for the day and the dew and who could ask you a question. I don't make it too furious; 30 seconds. Mrs De Vries, President, I also enjoyed you. Very good luck in March 17th. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. I call Mr Verhoeven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to Mr Weverling for his wonderful words. We always get a speech at the end in which the chairman looks back, but I really liked his enthusiasm and his passion, which he just showed again. I hope that many will be able to follow him in the way in which he has put it into practice and shaped it. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State, who I've been dealing with for a long time. She has made a number of justified comments on my questions. She bypassed the Postal Code lottery issue. She got out of the way, because this belongs to another ministry. I will respect that. I wanted the question raised here. There's nothing else I can do with it. I hope that colleagues will reconsider this in the future. I am grateful for what Mr Bruins said, in particular, and for the response to the thoughts I have expressed here, because I hope that this will one day return to this Chamber's agenda, because that is what I was concerned about. Mr. Chairman. I do have a motion, which, of course, is the final piece on at least a small subject that we have been facing for some time now. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas private addresses can be found in the Land Registry;]] [[Whereas private addresses can be found in the Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce;]] [[Whereas address files with private addresses are even sold through several Chamber of Commerce products;]] [[whereas these private addresses are used for unwanted communication with various professions such as doctors, lawyers and politicians, who may feel intimidated;]] [[states that the Land Registry and Chamber of Commerce will no longer provide private addresses to registered persons who state that they do not wish to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Graus and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35421-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u111	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I expect that we will simply support this motion. I would like to add that on 26 November last year a motion was tabled to JenV by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Buitenweg. It was about something similar. It invites the Government to protect public registers in which home addresses or a home address linked to an undertaking are present. I won't repeat the whole motion. That motion has already been adopted unanimously. This is a nice understatement of that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u112	That's right. I know that motion. I then, in the written consultation Rule pressure that we had after that motion, put in writing questions to the Secretary of State on this subject. I knew the presence of that motion, which we supported at the time. Then I got those answers again, in which I just noticed a little too little progress in the dossier. Then I thought it would be good to file a motion. I must also say that after listening to the Secretary of State, I will have to change the motion, on the point that I limit myself to those who do not want it, who combine their private address and their business address at one address. I will have to add that, otherwise I will make it possible for the Chamber to find that there are no more private addresses in the file. The Secretary of State has said: if you also have a company, the private address will already come out. The problem therefore focuses on those who combine private and home at one address. I will add that argument, but the thrust of the motion remains exactly the same. I am concerned that anyone who no longer wants to do so can state that and that it will not happen again, with the answer which the Secretary of State has already outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u113	The motion is therefore still being modified. Then the Secretary of State can also take that into account in her assessment. Mr Moorlag is still waiting for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u114	I do understand the motion from the point of view of protecting it. But the public access to the registers is, to some extent, also an important element to be protected. It should not be that, if the bailiff wants to consult the registers to be able to track down someone who doesn't pay... I myself was a trade union director and we also consulted files from the Chamber of Commerce in order to be able to write down reluctant employers. So I hope that Mr Verhoeven will be willing to introduce some nuance and space in the drafting of his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u115	This point, of course, is right and it is not black and white. There are situations where one is desirable and there are situations where the other is desirable. But we've been getting signals for ten years from people who are really annoying about the way their private address is shared by the Chamber of Commerce. I see that on the one hand, and on the other hand, I see situations surrounding the legal protection of trade and the accessibility of certain groups that you want to be able to address as a social organisation. If you weigh it against each other, I think it would be better for certain data to be provided on request and after checking through the Chamber of Commerce than for us to pass it on to everyone. The latter happens now. I believe that the Chamber of Commerce should be equipped, if necessary, to make a check on the question: who is asking for a given and why? But now it's completely open and it's used for a bad cause in a lot of cases. Intimidation, disinformation, annoying all the time sending the same information to someone from a commercial point of view; that is simply not desirable. That's what that Trade Register was never meant for. We need to change that, not in a way that creates new problems again, like the things Mr Moorlag and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs called. So we need to find a good solution. But the Chamber must now set out a very clear framework here for once, because it has been a little too long, namely for ten years. And it is increasingly due to the influx ofzzp'ers and the polarization of the debate, with more and more forms of semi-physical approach taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr Moorlag, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u117	It is that there are restrictions on handling, but with this addition I am almost inclined to fall into the arms of Mr Verhoeven sobbingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u118	Well, let's not do that now in corona time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u119	No, but I would, of course, be open to this outside of corona time, thinking also of Mr Weverling's speech and the way in which we have worked together here. That is what I have with Mr Moorlag and all my colleagues. So thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And I listen to the comments of the Secretary of State, who understood me well, and then I adjust the motion in a way that fits in with my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u120	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the second term of the Chamber. The motions need to be distributed for a while, so I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u121	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u122	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Four motions and I would like to say something about utilitarianism and deontology towards Mr Verhoeven. Now that he, and indeed Mr Weverling, is working on his farewell tour, it seems to me appropriate to respond to that. The motion in part No. 12 by Mr Futselaar I must advise against. The Civil Code already states that contracts may not last more than one year in general, and that after one year all contracts may be cancelled on a monthly basis. This is only different if there is a significant advantage in a contract for more than a year, for example a thermostat or a telephone. Then you can still cancel the contract after a year, but then you can be held to pay a fee. That was the motion in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u123	The motion in part No. 12 is therefore dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u124	That's right. The motion in part No. 13 I must also advise against, but I say the following. It is, of course, special to mention that you sell someone a contract for something they already get delivered for and for which they already have a contract and that they can't get rid of it automatically. Then it's totally special when you're holding onto that second contract when the person who reports to you with that problem. I also think that I should discuss this with the energy sector in my position. Is that their image, too? Does this happen all the time? How do they feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u125	The motion in part No. 13 is therefore dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u126	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 14. That's where I'm looking. This motion calls on the government "to examine, in the introduction test on the amendment of the Telecommunications Act, inter alia, how personal data are handled in the implementation process and to involve the Personal Data Authority." We've already done that for this law, which is before us today. If I may read the motion in such a way that I refer to these points in the assessment of the law that is being discussed today, then I can leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u127	Let me take a look at Mr Bruins. Does he agree to this interpretation of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u128	The introduction of the introduction test is still very fresh. The cabinet didn't report that until last Friday in a letter. So we don't know exactly what it's gonna look like yet. In that sense, I sympathize with the Secretary of State, because it is difficult to anticipate something that we do not yet know what it will look like. I assume that by then the introduction test will be something that happens by default after a year at every legislative change. So I mean it in this context: at the time it has been worked out and in the form used by the cabinet that then sits there. It's something that's gonna happen anyway. Maybe it's already called "evaluation," but it's now called "importing test." My request is that this aspect be taken into account and that the AP be included. So I'm not asking for an extra test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u129	But can you agree to the Secretary of State's interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u130	The problem is that we do not yet know what the input test is going to look like. It looks specifically at the implementation of this law. This can therefore go deeper than the evaluation of the law itself. I am concerned with the question of how it is implemented by the implementation organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u131	So you do not agree with the interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u132	Perhaps we agree, but I cannot agree with the interpretation because I do not yet know what the design will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u133	I'm gonna check on the Secretary of State. Will the motion be dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u134	Yes, but then at this point there seems to be a hardness in our ratio that may not be there at all. This is what you found in the reaction of the cabinet to the report Unfamiliar injustice, as you also write at the top of your motion. Of course, the cabinet is going to discuss this in detail with the Chamber. I do not think that I am in a position to give such a far-reaching opinion on something that concerns the entire cabinet when dealing with the amendment of the Telecommunications Act. I am very willing to look at the aspects that Mr Bruins has included in this motion in the evaluation of this bill, but I cannot anticipate this discussion with the entire cabinet. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u135	Mr Bruins, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u136	For my information, when is the evaluation scheduled? I don't have that clear right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u137	I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u138	If that were also a year after introduction, we would be on exactly the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u139	I think that's too soon. For example, this summer I have the question of how the three-year period is going. I know that the Chamber always wants evaluations to take place very quickly, but we have to set such a deadline that you can actually say something about it. If we come to the conclusion from the summer that those three years do not work, then you have to hit an AMvB. Then you have a new starting moment for the implementation of a law and then you move that time limit again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u140	I am still thinking very carefully about the precise wording of this motion. Maybe I'll change her. I accept that the judgment is now "dissuade' because of the lack of clarity as to what an introduction test is exactly, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u141	The motion in part No. 14 is therefore dissuaded. Mr Bruins is going to take a look at the motion. Indeed, the votes are only Tuesday, so he still has time to do so. Then the motion to part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u142	I responded to this in my first term, and I continued to talk about it with Mr Verhoeven in an interrupting debate. The fact is, I'm standing here as Demissionary Secretary of State. So it would also be very special to say now "fantastic, we are going to do so," because then I will at least overplay my hand. In this motion, by the way, the Chamber speaks out something. The government is not being asked to do anything. But if the Chamber adopts this motion, then I have made my comments on behalf of the government. They're in there, too. Perhaps it will give the Chamber room to see if it will not throw the child away with the bath water, just to stay in Mr Verhoeven's metaphor. Because there are also sides to it that you don't want to lose. In other words, isn't the cure worse here than the ailment? So that's really something we need to get a good look at each other. That is the only thing I would like to say to this Chamber as the outgoing Secretary of State, no matter how much I receive the messages like Mr Verhoeven and all the other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u143	This is indeed a speech-exmotion, so there is no need for judgment. I therefore note "no judgment." Mr Verhoeven has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u144	I had already indicated that I would change the motion a little bit. I can, of course, simply add a request to ask the government to come up with a solution. That was also a bit the reason why I tabled this motion in this way. It is precisely in the debate with the Secretary of State that I indicated that I hope that she will use the framework of the Chamber to carry out her own good action. Now I see the Secretary of State suddenly says, "I'm a missionary." That's right, but why are we treating this law today with steam and boiling water in times of corona? I could ask for it back. Apparently, there can just be acted and done. If we do, I would like to solve an existing problem. I'd like to give the Secretary of State room for that. And then the Secretary of State says, "It's a statement from the Chamber that I can't do anything with right now." That wasn't the feeling I had at our first exchange of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u145	And your question is concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u146	That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State if, once my motion has been passed, she would like to send a letter on how she is going to implement it. I can also do that again in the regulation of work, but if the Secretary of State simply states in a letter what she is doing with this statement from the Chamber within her missionary capabilities, I think we understand each other very well, that we are taking a serious step and that there is something there. Then we do it in a way that also fits the situation of the subject and the understanding between Chamber and Cabinet in missionary times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u147	The motion in part No. 15 has not been judged. You're gonna change the motion. I assume that before the vote, the cabinet will indicate what it thinks of that amended motion. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u148	If that's necessary, Mr. Chairman. I have just heard Mr Verhoeven say that he is going to amend the motion and put it to the vote. If the motion is passed, he will be happy to receive a letter from the government. I think that's a state-of-the-art way of dealing with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u149	Mr Verhoeven, very briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not add that I call on the government to do anything. I have heard the Secretary of State, who says: if the motion is passed, I will send a letter. That's what's in the Acts now. In that letter she will address this issue, heard the debate and heard the Chamber's framework. Then I won't have to do anything else. After further examination, the amendment is not necessary either, because the question of the addresses of people who have a company at another address is already being resolved. This is only about the combination. The target group has thus already been reduced to the target group of my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u151	You now state that you will put the motion to the vote unchanged. The motion doesn't get a verdict. If the motion is passed, it is agreed that there will be a reaction from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u152	Yes, and I'm counting on unanimous support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u153	We'll see about that Tuesday. The Secretary of State was done answering the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u154	Finally, Mr President. Mr Verhoeven asked me whether I am utilitarian or deontological in the world. I always do it through belief or principle ethics and responsibility or impact ethics. Of course, you can have a wonderful principle, but if it has ethically adverse consequences in its elaboration, you have to reconsider yourself. Because this is philosophy, and therefore not mathematics, you can't say in general what you do in all situations. We're gonna have to look at the problem before us every time. What are the starting points on which you want to act? What are the consequences of this and can you take responsibility for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u155	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the second term and to the consideration of this amendment to the Telecommunications Act in connection with the introduction of an opt-in system for the transmission of unsolicited communications.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u156	The votes on the motions, the two amendments and the law will be on Tuesday. Thank you all for the contributions.
