ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u1	At present the issue is the joint treatment of the legislative proposals 35927, Tax Plan 2022; 35928, Other tax measures 2022; 35931, Law implementing tax liability measure from the second EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive; 35933, Act countering mismatches when applying business principle; and 35873, Withdrawal of the Job-related Investment Discount. I would like to inform you, for the record, that the handling of legislative proposal 35932, Reduction in the rate of landlord tax and monthly change in the amounts of tax reductions, which is also part of the Tax Plan 2022, will be dealt with separately in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is probably not easy to be Secretary of State for Finance. You're a side-intromer, you work hard, it's almost over and then the digital Volkskrant appears on your screen on Saturday. "Our tax system is as rotten as a miscarriage" was the headline above an extremely readingable interview with Professor Bas Jacobs recently in this newspaper. In this interview, Jacobs makes short cuts with the current tax system. The pressure on labour is too high, on power too low, especially at home in box 2. I would add that the current system is not green enough. There are still many fossil subsidies in the tax system and a broad, so effective carbon pricing has not yet been achieved despite all the intentions. Despite the efforts of this State Secretary, the system still facilitates forms of tax avoidance. For this, see the report of the Ter Haar II Committee. Social real estate is based on the palatable landlord's tax that we have that debate tomorrow and investors in real estate have free play. The car taxes are waiting to be charged with pain. Moreover, the system is too complex and difficult to implement. In recent years, the Tax Administration has been engaged in an unprecedented fraud hunt for payment and taxable persons in the surcharge and the FSV scandal and the service itself is almost falling through its hooves. Here is the state of play in 2021, the legacy of ten years Cabinets-Rutte. How does Secretary of State File Letter look at this? Shouldn't it be concluded that, despite steps in the right direction taken by this State Secretary in recent years, this analysis is still valid and is actually the same as in 2017? Mr. Chairman. About greening. In the aftermath of Glasgow, the cabinet decided to take out export credit insurance for foreign fossil projects. This is not a tax issue, but it is the responsibility of this Secretary of State for Taxation. It's an excellent decision. Hail for that. This must also have consequences for the point I just made. I ask the cabinet once again to identify and phase out fiscal fossil subsidies. What is this Secretary of State's plan of attack? I'd like to respond. Mr President, on the process of tax legislation and feasibility by the service. The Minister for Finance has indicated that it will consider whether and how the budgetary process can take place earlier in the year, including in the light of advice from the Council of State. This is therefore likely to have an impact on the rhythm of tax legislation. I ask the Secretary of State about the possible consequences for the annual planning of the fiscal legislative process. What does this give to his successor? Can I see that in the future not all the tax changes will be saved for the legislative process in the autumn, but that they will be spread out in the future? That would be a profit. I'd like to respond. Mr. Chairman. A plea for a far-reaching reform of the tax system I say that Bas Jacobs is not the first to raise the question, in addition to the political feasibility of a firm and thorough plan, which the Tax Administration can actually achieve in the coming years. We have also had this debate before. Once again, I ask the Secretary of State for his appreciation. Also here: what is the legacy? What do we have to take into account in the coming years? Mr. Chairman. I asked the Secretary of State last year what is the policy regarding the collection of deferred tax debts as a result of tax corona aid. The counter, I believe, stands at over EUR 19 billion. What will be the policy of the service in this area? Is there more clarity about that? Mr. Chairman. About tax avoidance. The GroenLinks Group appreciates the efforts of the Secretary of State to adapt the old practice of the Netherlands to fully facilitate tax avoidance. He intervenes; that is a good thing. However, there is still a very long way to go. As far as we're concerned, gas, continue and eradicate this practice with root and branch. That is why I once again asked for a reply from the Minister of Finance during the General Financial Reviews in the First Chamber, which inspired the outgoing cabinet to make a round of political parties recently to perhaps abolish the dividend tax, on the day Shell announced the departure from headquarters to London. Why did the Cabinet do that? Was that an old impulse? I'd like some clarity from Secretary of State File Letter. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the aforementioned committee - Ter Haar II. Once again Ter Haar puts the finger on the sore spot. They're now 12,000 stockbrokers. These are mainly tax driven and have little substance and economic activity. This is once again affront by the Netherlands and there is probably a lot of damage to third countries. What is the reaction of the Cabinet and this Secretary of State to Ter Haar's report? A new element in the report concerns the role of investment treaties that give companies a title to sue states. What does the Cabinet say to that? Isn't this also a practice to keep a critical eye on? I would also remind you of my recently adopted motion on the handling of money laundering by the Netherlands and the relationship with the tax system. What's the Cabinet gonna do here? I'd like to respond. Mr. Chairman. I would also ask the Secretary of State what, in his view, should be the role of the tax system in the establishment environment in the coming years. In the General Financial Reviews I have already shown that we were charmed by the words of CDA spokesperson Van Kesteren on this subject, also in connection with Shell's departure. In my words, the time has passed to keep an economy on its feet with tax advantages at the expense of others. The game's over. We knew that back in 2009, I would say to the Minister of Finance who made a sympathetic investment at the time, which was clumsyly structured through a tax haven. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this point, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for his appreciation of the state of play regarding the debate on the morale of tax-advising Netherlands. That came along earlier, also last year here in the First Chamber. We have also been seeing recently how uncommonly fiercely in the public debate is sometimes being acted on. What about the ethics of this profession? What is the appeal the Secretary of State wants to make here today and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u4	I just heard that it should stop with tax advantages and benefits. Does this also apply to all green particles?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u5	That's what I'm getting at. I would think that the adventure must be over where companies are favoured by tax to attract them to the Netherlands, regardless of their economic activity and at the expense of tax revenues elsewhere in the world. Put an end to that. Instead, I am very much in favour of this. I have paid a great deal of attention to this during the General Financial Reviews, that we should move towards a sustainable, inclusive economy with an entrepreneurial state that provides well-focused funds for business to make that sustainability possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u6	That is all very nice and nice, but all these green benefits also complicate the tax system. This applies not only to other tax advantages. That's exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u7	In my opinion, we could also keep clean-up in green taxes, because there too all kinds of things are happening that I think are no longer necessary; we could do that much more efficiently. I just gave you the example of charging. We know that car taxes in the Netherlands are a tragedy. The fact that we still haven't solved that is due to the taboo of the Netherlands on the right, to which Mr Van Strien belongs, to the introduction of the charging system. Driving accounts makes the system much more feasible and much simpler. My party hasn't waited 30 years. For many years, Mr Van Strien, you have been running an opportunity for simplification of the system and deep greening. Shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u8	We have not had a chance to intervene in the tax system in the last ten years. We have strongly advocated it, but I am pleased to hear from Mr Vendrik that he is also in favour of simplifying the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u9	You continue your argument, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u10	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the appeal of the Secretary of State to the Dutch tax advisory profession. I'll continue with the FSV list and the surcharges. The report on the FSV list at the Tax Administration has also left deep displeasure to my group. Or rather, "lists," because there are several, I understand. The practice of the Tax Administration in recent years of placing people on a fraud list and then interfering with it is downright shocking. All the requirements of the rule of law and rules of the game for data collection have been violated here and it is probably lists that are likely to be characterised by institutional discrimination. I ask the Secretary of State for a response, the current state of affairs and what the Cabinet is going to do to compensate those who have been injured from these lists. The question remains of course: how could this happen? It is particularly worrying that it is estimated that I would like to be corrected by the Secretary of State if otherwise.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I understand that additional action is being taken on this. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State and I'd like to hear what that action looks like. As far as the supplement scandal is concerned, I have two points. I understand that this week in the Lower House there will be further discussions with Secretary of State Van Huffelen about the current state of the recovery operation. I'll leave that here. So two points. In the Lower House there is a legislative proposal with delegation provisions ahead. The Secretary of State also spoke with our colleagues on the other side last week. Those provisions allow the Secretary of State to subsequently allow for specific recovery operations, for the benefit of ex-partners and victims, among others, on the child-related budget. In addition, a broader bill was announced that would cover the whole recovery operation. Can the Secretary of State clarify exactly what it is intended to do and what it expects from Parliament in the coming period? The second and final point. Recent reports have been published on the surcharge scandal, recently by the administrative judges and the Council of State. The democratic rule of law has failed, so is the short but harsh summary. The question is how this will be prevented in the future. I understand that all the attention of the rulers, particularly those of Secretary of State Van Huffelen, is now going to get on track and keep the recovery operation going. It's been a long job, and it's been too long. However, I would urge you to take a broad look at this scandal and consider what is needed to prevent a repetition of such a derailment from the trias politician. This could best be done by means of a further appreciation of the cabinet, in which these reports and findings of various parties that have played a role in the supplementing drama are taken together. I would like to hear from the rulers whether they are willing and able to do so. Otherwise, Parliament might have to take the lead in this. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A few specific comments on the various legislative proposals. The Tax Plan 2022 contains a number of adjustments that should support purchasing power for 2022. Turns out it's not fat. Before 2022, most households were already at zero or in the minus. This is where rising inflation plays an important role. It's getting faster than expected, so the old purchasing power figures are now worn out. What is the latest state of affairs and what further actions is the Cabinet considering for 2022? What else would be possible if a new cabinet had been set up? Why is it possible for the cabinet to submit an incidental supplementary bill on the budget 2022 of OC&W to purchase a Rembrandt painting, but does the outgoing cabinet remain silent here? A specific point concerns the increase in energy costs. This has also been discussed during the AFB. This increase consisted of the increase in gas prices, which mainly affects people with a small stock exchange, especially those living in a draft rental house. The cabinet has decided to compensate for this of EUR 3.2 billion. In doing so, the political choice has been made to compensate households directly and directly via the energy account alone. This leads to compensation payments being made everywhere, and then families with energy poverty are not properly paid. The debate was held in the Lower House and also here at the AFB. My tax question is: why this choice? Why did compensation only have to be made through the energy bill? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet made one small amendment to its own approach, by telling the Chamber last week to provide 200 million by special assistance for families at the minimum. I would ask you to clarify what this is about and to make it clear whether that is enough to do people justice to the minimum with high energy costs. That's what it was meant for. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the income tax. As I said at the AFB, we have taken note with great interest of the VVD's proposal to finance the increase in salaries from a slight increase in the general rate of the Vpb. We should do that more often. The only remaining dispute point in this Chamber is now the extension of the disc in the Vpb for the reduced rate and the incentive it offers to avoid the Vpb via constructions. The Secretary of State knows the debate. It was conducted, not least by its own officials in ESB. I ask the Secretary of State whether I understand that he has started to doubt this point and that he is reconsidering his own bill from last year here. In the Lower House, he said about the risk of circumvention by cutting up companies in various e.g.: "That's a truth like a cow." He's gonna do research and he's gonna reconsider this. If the Secretary of State is already feeling wetty, just like his officials and many outside the door, see all the publications in Het Financieele Dagblad "Let's finish the job here." Secretary of State, come up with a novelle this week and undo this extension. I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Some comments on box 3 following the legislative proposal on other fiscal measures. The Secretary of State has raised a tip of the veil in the House of Representatives about the forthcoming contour note. That's what I'm talking about. A real tax on capital income, interest, dividend and increase in value of assets is to come, possibly in 2025. That's very good news. That's what we've been pleading for for 25 years. My question is whether this contour note also looks more broadly at the taxation of capital and capital. See Jacobs' call to see that broad and integral. My question is also whether the revision of box 3 is combined with, for example, what is left untaxed in box 2 and elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. This also affects the large and, to some extent, unjustly unknown issue of the property ratio in the Netherlands, which we also know too little about, according to the Secretary of State. What's the route ahead here? What's ready for the next cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the bill on mismatches. The proposal is based on Ter Haar I and has our warm support, because it counteracts tax evasion and diving behaviour. The sale of intellectual property within its own group should not give rise to a tax advantage. It is good that the Secretary of State intervenes in this matter. A concern of my group, as on the other side, concerns the scope of this bill and the date of its entry into force. Loans are included and capital injections are not included. Why not? I'm wondering again. Why is it not certain that the bill concerns all business purchases when there is an e.g. in a tax haven where no or little profit tax is levied? Responding force is not a problem, but why, Secretary of State, exactly until 1 July 2019? There are a few groups that are going to get away with this very royally. We're gonna let you do that sooner. Why? Mr. Chairman. Of course, the ATAD 2 bill also has our support. Europe has united on this before. I'm taking this bill for a request. The Secretary of State has done the necessary work to combat tax avoidance. However, it is not easy to keep an eye on the effective functioning of the now successive proposals that have been put into practice. We are hampered by a lack of good data, as the two Ter Haar committees have noted and have already been appointed by Tax Justice International. They're, like, the "ten dark alleys of D66." That's what I think it's called across the street. I would ask the Secretary of State to say that the new cabinet will send a monitoring report to Parliament every spring which will provide an insight into the progress and effectiveness of the anti-tax avoidance agenda. On this point, too, a motion may be helpful, I would say to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State will understand that the GroenLinks Group has read the repeal bill BIK with agreement. It is the last company of a dramatic fiscal theater piece in four episodes. The symbolism of this bill is actually very large. What began in 2017, when the Prime Minister indicated to his deepest fibers that the dividend tax had to be abolished, has now ended with a targeted reduction of the Vpb and through the introduction of the IK last year, in its withdrawal. I invite the Secretary of State to give another reflection here. What the hell happened here? Mr. Chairman. The political symbolism lies in the fact that even a cabinet with CDA and VVD had to come to the conclusion at this time, and that is good news that the old political project of tax competition on income from capital and capital is at an end. We're really going into a different era. Mr Van Kesteren said that. We are entering a decade in which the Netherlands also faces a phenomenal sustainable transition and in which it has to tackle major issues of inequality. Managing and supporting sustainable markets and green businesses and providing counterweight to unequal processes of capital acquisition in particular should be at the top of the fiscal agenda. I am therefore celebrating this bill as the implicit recognition of it, and I invite the Secretary of State to respond positively to it at the end of his missionary Latin. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank both directors for their work, apart from political differences. They jumped in in between, and that's brave, and that deserves respect. Our thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Mr Van Apeldoorn has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. During the General Financial Reviews, the Minister Van Financiën recently managed to take away the desire to debate with several spokesmen by ignoring or avoiding questions, with a constant reference to the formation and missionary status of this cabinet. I suspect that the Secretary of State for Finance will also refer several times to the formation and possibly to the coalition agreement that seems to be almost finished now, but that we do not know here. That makes the debate a little more difficult. We hope for a more lively debate tonight and tomorrow than we did last time. Demissionary or not, there is now a tax plan on the table which is not very extensive or far-reaching this time, but on which there are still some notes to crack. The debate will then inevitably be about what else should have been done in or otherwise. The Secretary of State will then probably say that this is up to the next cabinet. But if this cabinet is a missionary and it is a triple missionary, how does it intend to make an ultimate attempt to abolish the dividend tax in that triple missionary status? Mr Vendrik has just mentioned this. Surely it is a good idea, as a outgoing cabinet, to have a cabinet that always invokes its missionary status, for example, when it comes to refusing to tackle the housing crisis further in injury time, to kneel for large-scale capital and specifically for a single multinational? According to many, this is Dutch pride, but apparently that pride was not mutual. But if you still believe that we could have kept the headquarters of this fossil giant better, let's let that company take us hostage in that way? Apparently, this Secretary of State was prepared to do so. I'd like a response. Nevertheless, the package before us is about steps, or steps, in the right direction. On balance, in my group's view, this package is an improvement. One step in the right direction is that the tax on profits increases by 0.8% in the high rate. On the one hand, this is only a step in the right direction, on the other hand, this step is historic. After decades of falling only, the tax on profits goes up for the first time, and this government wanted to lower it first. This change, this first step towards a fairer distribution of the burden between labour and capital, is nice although the credits here of course do not go to the cabinet, but to the majority of the House of Representatives who voted in favour of the motion of the Christian Union and the SP, in which this was the cover for what has finally been achieved: a structural increase in salaries in care. The question to the Secretary of State is whether he can give a reflection on this increase in the Vpb. With his immediate predecessor, we had a debate at the beginning of this cabinet period on the reduction envisaged at that time. It was then called necessary for an attractive investment climate. It was still a way, as was argued in this House by some colleagues, to overcome competition from nearby countries such as Germany or France. How does the Secretary of State see that? Are those still valid arguments to lower the Vpb later? Or does the government and the Secretary of State have a progressive view on this issue? My group hopes for the latter. Our group is less pleased with the consequences of the extension that has already been decided on, Mr Vendrik. Last month we were able to read in a headline on the front page of Het Financieele Dagblad that this would open the cabinet, and I quote: 'open the door to tax avoidance'. And I thought that this government and this Secretary of State would now make an effort to finally get rid of this massive tax avoidance! I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. For much larger companies, it suddenly becomes fiscally interesting to split up. On the part of the outgoing government, we hear that it is not going to be this fast, or at least that we want to wait for the effects first. But it's clear by now what the effect will be? I quote from this article in Het Financieele Dagblad Mr Overwater, chairman of the trade association Register Tax Advisors. "The whole consulting world is ready to respond to this for their customers." Well, you know what time it is, don't you? Why has the government not chosen to prevent this abuse by making it impossible for companies to split up in this way and for this reason? Do we really have to see that this predicted tax avoidance is going to increase before the successor of this Secretary of State takes action? From the calf and the well and all that. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. My group also considered a motion on this point, but I will understand myself with Mr Vendrik. Perhaps there is no need for a motion and there is a progressive understanding of the Secretary of State and we get a commitment for a novelle. That would be very nice, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to tax avoidance, my group welcomes the proposal to combat tax avoidance through so-called mismatches. However, we find it incomprehensible and eternally sinful that companies that were guilty of this type of practice until July 2019 should now be allowed to continue to dance because constructions that already existed at that time are allowed to continue. For example, Uber, which in April 2019 housed his intellectual property in a Dutch bv in order to avoid the tax, starts the dance and can therefore continue to avoid tax through a depreciation construction for many years. Earlier, the target date, as stated in the draft legislative proposal that the consultation took place, would be 1 January 2017. But then the lobby of large companies and of the Dutch Order of Tax Advisors started and it became July 2019. Certain forms of the so-called double non-taxation are also deliberately excluded from the legislative proposal. Given these loopholes in the law, Professor of Tax Law Jan van de Streek, quoted in NRC Handelsblad, even speaks of "a wash nose." In answering our questions about this, the government states that it was only from 2019 that companies could suspect that this form of tax avoidance would be addressed. As if the approach to this kind of tax avoidance was not long on the political agenda, also internationally. Moreover, in my group's opinion, companies that are guilty of tax avoidance should always be concerned that the legislator could at some point do something about this. After all, avoiding taxes is a socially undesirable and immoral practice. Or does the Secretary of State see it differently? If this was recognised as a form of tax avoidance before 2017, why would companies still be able to wash their hands in innocence as far as this government is concerned? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the field of tax avoidance, steps are also being taken internationally. I am thinking in particular of the OECD agreement. The question, however, is how historic this agreement really is and whether it does not also disappoint because of its limited scope and the relatively low minimum rate of 15%. This is among other things the criticism of the Tax Justice Network. My question to the Secretary of State is: to what extent does he share this criticism, or is he satisfied with the outcome? There is still a great deal of work to be done internationally and at national level to tackle tax avoidance. Last year I noticed that the Netherlands is still at the top of the wrong list of tax havens somewhere. Also this year, according to the recent publication of Tax Justice Netherlands, the Netherlands is in fourth place, behind Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and the now known British Virgin Islands by our Finance Minister. Shameful. I assume that the Secretary of State shares with me the hope that if we discuss this with his successor in a few years' time, we will have fallen far short of this wrong ranking. Mr. Chairman. Then the repeal of last year's Job-related Investment Discount Act. This was not only a case of feasibility and, as has been shown, European legal sustainability, a poorly thought-out and hasty law. Moreover, like the previously envisaged abolition of the dividend tax, it was a completely unnecessary and inefficient gift for business. It was also a proposal that came directly from the employers' case and was actually only wanted by the VVD within the coalition. We are not going to repeat last year's debate here, but I wonder what lessons the Secretary of State and also the coalition parties, who may have supported this against better knowledge, will draw from it. Does the Secretary of State really only regret that it has broken down on the legal sustainability, or does he agree in his heart with our group that this was a bad proposal anyway and that we should be happy, even if it is embarrassing that it should be done in this way, that we should get rid of it now thanks to Brussels? Mr. Chairman. Taxation also affects the issue of distribution. Taxes have to be fair. Taxing is an important tool to achieve a fairer distribution of income and wealth, and to ensure that the polluter pays and that we arrive at a fair sharing of the costs of the climate transition. However, our current tax system is still seriously inadequate in all these respects. I am not going to talk this time about finally introducing a millionaire tax to tackle capital inequality. We are happy to continue this debate with the new government. However, I would like to point out that what we do in the name of greening sometimes turns out to be very unfair, such as subsidising Tesla's while people who cannot afford such a car have to pay much more. It is also unfair that households pay 30 times as much for their gas consumption as companies. This is all the more striking when we are faced with an energy crisis and unprecedented rising inflation, two things that affect people on lower incomes enormously. I have already mentioned the growing problem of energy poverty during the Financial Reviews. This is now being addressed by the government, but my group feared and still fears that it will not be enough, especially when inflation for very large groups will lead to a significant loss of purchasing power. The Secretary of State will probably say that it is up to the new cabinet to look at this, but the people will now be sitting next year, in 2022, with the consequences. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is outgoing, but has declared missionary with regard to the handling of the supplement scandal and thus the recovery operation. But what about this mission? Difficult, very difficult. We've been talking about this with this Secretary of State for almost two years now. In the meantime, we are in the ninth progress report. It doesn't cheer either. As I pointed out during the Financial Reviews, only 10% of all reported cases of harm have been dealt with in full. How does the Secretary of State herself reflect on this and how does she finally see things in a next coalition going better with the implementation? It can also refer to the legislation that may still be coming our way. When will the many thousands of parents come to an end to the uncertainty, despair and feeling of humiliation, when all these years that have been wronged and the recovery, reimbursement and compensation, despite all the fine words, are still often waiting for them? Of course, we have to get rid of the whole supplement system. We're all pretty much in agreement on that. The only question is how. There must be an end to pumping around all that money, something that has led to all this misery. We're curious what the new cabinet will come up with. But as far as the SP is concerned, childcare should simply be a public provision, so we take it out of the market and give all parents the right to four days of free childcare. Mr President, I shall conclude. I do not know whether we will see these Secretary of State and, possibly, in what role in a subsequent cabinet, but I am looking forward to tomorrow's response and debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Mr Van Strien has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Much has already been said about the surcharge scandal, especially in the House of Representatives. I would therefore like to keep this subject limited here. However, what I still miss about the government and in the answer in the Lower House by the Secretary of State is a timetable. We have been working since 2017 and the problem seems to be getting bigger; think of the removals of children. But also the solutions seem to be becoming more and more complex and out of sight. The PVV is very concerned about that. Perhaps the Secretary of State can respond to this and ultimately clarify a timetable. Mr. Chairman. The recent opinion, the so-called Opinion of the Advocate General, to the Supreme Court that the taxation of savings and other assets in box 3 of income tax at system level is contrary to the right of ownership and the principle of equality in the ECHR has given rise to quite a stir. The first thing the Secretary of State said about this in the Lower House was: it is not yet a ruling of the Supreme Court. Typical of the Rutte Cabinets, I would say, because they know that the taxpayer is simply being lifted in box 3. At the start of box 3 in 2001, a fixed rate of 4% was used for the flat-rate return. On that you paid 30%, which resulted in the capital yield tax being 1.2%. You all know Zalm's statement at the time: "Every loser gets more than 4% return. Whoever fails to do so can receive government bonds, with a percent or six return." Against this, there was an increasing objection when the interest rate by the ECB interventions read: because of the financing of the southern European debt debt................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In 2012, the Van Dijkhuizen Commission proposed replacing the then 4% with the average savings rate in the last five years, but that was obviously going to cost the Rutte Cabinets too much money. Therefore, since 2017, the fictitious return has been calculated on the basis of a fictitious division into types of investments, depending on the level of assets and historically average returns achieved by type of investments. Nicely complicated and hardly verifiable, thanks to the then VVD Secretary of State for Taxation Wiebes, who was eagerly even unsolicited to come up with and implement PvdA policy. Mr. Chairman. I understand that our reports are also read at the Supreme Court. That is why I repeat what I said a few years ago. The cabinet already knew in 2016 that they were out of line. I quote from the note Charge box 3 on the basis of actual return, from that year, 2016: "As a result, the revenue from a tax on the actual return at hypothetical introduction in the years 2017-2019 with a return as expected for those years would be lower than that of the flat-rate charge." According to the same progress note from the Ministry, the difference from the imposition of a levy on the basis of the actual return generated several billions by the State. That some people just call that theft makes sense to me. Mr. Chairman. The fact that there is no solution is due to the fixation of the cabinet on a nice, steady yield of a few billion a year. Charges on the basis of real returns will, in times of crisis, amount to a negative return; a frightening picture for the cabinet. It is illustrious that last year, when the duty-free foot was increased, compensation had to be found in the increase in the rates for savers and investors with a slightly higher capital, in order to maintain the overall return; talk about principles. The victims we are talking about here are often middlemen who, after a business break, want to put their money away somewhat carefully for their old age. That was the group the VVD once claimed to stand up for. The really rich people aren't in box 3. All you have to do is open the Quote 500 and you'll see that it's in box 2. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about car taxes and border effects. "You don't pay car tax for a full electric car" says the tax website. The tax advantage for electric cars has been extended until 2024. The government wants to stimulate full electric driving. Also, you do not pay bpm at all when purchasing electric cars. CBS figures show that the share of electricity in energy consumption has increased in recent years. Logical: more heat pumps, more electric cars. The windmills and solar panels produce as far as wind and sun allow, but nevertheless deliver only a fraction of the total electricity production. The rest is generated by coal and gas. The marginal increase in electricity consumption is therefore produced from coal. In fact, last year the amount of electricity generated from coal doubled. Ergo, the Tesla of the left elite, an extra user of electricity, thus runs on coal. And that subsidised left-wing status object is now paid for by the common man, by Henk and Ingrid, who have certainly been paying the full price for a second-hand petrol car lately. In short, a completely bizarre tax incentive. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Many petrol pumps have been shut down throughout the border area during this cabinet period. The difference in the price of motor fuels between the Netherlands and Germany and Belgium was almost zero ten years ago and now, at the end of Rutte III, for ordinary petrol is about €0.30 per litre. The middle class, which is seeing its business disappear abroad because of the towering petrol prices, also leads a soul-blowing existence through the bizarre rates of excise duty and VAT, thanks to the Rutte Cabinets. However much one does in the border region, the shopping emptiness is in Limburg, the province with the longest external border, according to the CBS hugely higher than the national average of 8%. In the municipalities of Bergen in Limburg, a quarter of the shops are empty. That is the highest percentage of the whole of the Netherlands. In Vaals and Sittard-Geleen, 22% and 21% of shops are empty respectively. A cabinet with an extra 8 billion for climate hysteria cannot hide behind its missionary character to do nothing about this problem. I'd like a response from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Mrs Prast has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than 40 years ago, the Secretary of State for Taxation and I were in college together. He's probably more often than I am, and I'm sure he's done a little bit shorter on economics too! During the General Financial Reviews, the Minister of Finance found it difficult to distinguish between a supply and a demand shock. During the debate on Invest International, the Minister for Trade was unable to distinguish between economic and structural policies. I expect more from the Secretary of State and very much hope that he can live up to those expectations. Let me begin with the main conclusion that my group draws from the Tax Plan. We don't have much time left to balance our society with nature. In our view, this tax plan does not show that the cabinet is aware of this and it leaves future generations in the cold. Broad prosperity has been served by improving implementation organisations and encouraging parental leave, because children who are cared for at home in the first year of life by someone who loves them are later mentally healthier and have better school performance. In our view, therefore, the freezing of family allowances to finance this expenditure is unacceptable. People with underage children are investing in the future of our society. It's unusual for the cabinet to take the bill down there alone. According to CBS, people aged 25 to 65 years, where parents have underage children, have a three to four times higher risk of poverty than 65+. From where, do I ask the Secretary of State, this reversed Robin-Hood policy? Or does the government consider having children to be something that harms society? The government wants to finance paid parental leave by reducing the income-dependent combination discount. This is a redistribution of single, working parents and from the least-earning partner in two-earning families to the rest of the population. This proposal affects working women in lower-income families. Here again, I am asking why this reverse Robin-Hood policy, which also discourages women from working. Mr. Chairman. The use of fictitious returns stimulates risk taking with savings. Not only are people with more than €50,000 savings in the bank financially punished. The current scheme also sends them the message that it is abnormal not to take a risk with capacity above €50,000; Mr Van Strien already gave Mr Zalm's quote. There are plenty of ordinary people who have put money aside or have to put it aside, for example because they are a self-employed or entrepreneur and want to be able to cope with a setback. Soon, people who retire will be able to withdraw 10% of their pension assets as a lump sum. You shouldn't think about them going public with that! Continuation of fictitious returns is closely linked to financial consumer protection policies. According to the AFM, 66% of non-professional investors invest with money that they can't miss now or later, and many of them can get into serious financial problems. With the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, a whole Christmas tree has been rigged to prevent banks from encouraging people to take too much investment risk and the AFM investigates whether martial arts apps encourage people to take too much risk, but in the meantime, with the fictitious return scheme, the cabinet sends ordinary people into the stock market and punishes people who have to or want to handle their money carefully. I ask the Secretary of State for a commitment that the fictitious return on savings will be abolished or suspended as long as the interest rate on savings accounts is lower than the fictitious return applied by the government. The Advocate General of the Supreme Court has recently found that the levy in box 3 is contrary to European law. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with this and at what time? I'm considering a motion on this. Almost all EU countries use the option of applying two low VAT rates. They use it for differentiation in charging on basic needs and less essential consumption. Fruit and vegetables are therefore at the lowest rate in those countries. An extra low rate would be an opportunity to reduce the burden on other products whose consumption serves the general interest. The Netherlands does not make use of this differentiation option and therefore does not use a useful tool to promote a healthy lifestyle without restricting freedom of choice. According to RIVM, three quarters of the Dutch eat too little fruit and two thirds too little vegetables. Fruit and vegetables have increased by 34% and 57% respectively over the last 20 years. The government writes in the Millions note to worry about the sustainability of healthcare funding and stresses the importance of prevention. We know that good nutrition can prevent a lot of disease burden. The EU wants to make fruit and vegetables VAT-free. In the meantime, the cabinet has rejected the introduction of an extra low VAT rate, as the Tax Administration would not be able to handle it. If the tax authorities in other countries are able to work with two low VAT rates, should we be able to do so in the Netherlands? Is the Secretary of State prepared to take steps to that end? I'd like a response. Mr Van der Linden and I are considering tabling a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals wants to see the true cost of meat reflected in the price through a slaughter tax. The House of Representatives has prepared an initiative proposal, which hopefully will also be discussed in this Chamber. I ask the Secretary of State how he looks at the negative externalities of meat and dairy. Does he agree with us that these should be reflected in the price, also in the interests of future generations? In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the negative effects of the bio-industry on health. People near a megastal are significantly more likely to develop lung disease. Megastables represent a major risk of a dangerous zoonoses. The government's response is not to ban megalomania or to discourage it by tax, but to prevent the destruction of animals. This year there were millions again. Is the Secretary of State prepared, if only for the sake of public health, to use the fiscal instrument to discourage mega-stables and encourage organic farming? By way of derogation from many EU countries, the Netherlands levy VAT on land-based public transport. Flying and shipping are exempt from VAT. This gives these sectors an annual benefit of 3.5 billion, or in other words 3.5 billion a year. That money could be used for care, for example. What justification does the Secretary of State have for the levying of VAT on travelling with D on the land? Why does he exempt flights and shipping from VAT? How does this fit in with sustainability claims? Mr. Chairman. I know: several EU countries, including the Netherlands, have introduced a flight tax. Germany uses €12.90 for short flights, €33 for medium flights and €60 for long flights. Italy uses €13 for short flights and €18 for long flights. In Austria it is €30. In several countries a higher rate applies to business class. By a higher rate, I mean a higher flight tax. The cabinet wants a European flight tax to prevent distortions of competition, but with a low flight tax of €7.50, it itself is a big counterfeiter. Why does the government, in the run-up to a possible European flight tax, not introduce a tax in line with the above-mentioned countries in terms of altitude? How does the Secretary of State look at a higher flight tax for business class tickets? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stay in the air for a while. Is it true that KLM has been delayed from paying taxes for an amount of around EUR 1.4 billion and, if so, can the Secretary of State explain this? Taxes are related to income. A well-functioning company puts aside the tax to be paid. Where'd that money go? KLM was also the largest recipient of NOW aid and received a government loan and a state-rated bank loan. Lufthansa has already repaid the covid aid. Why is KLM not able to do so and does it seem to need a postponement of tax payments? Until when did KLM get a reprieve? How does the Secretary of State view the dual role of the government as a shareholder in KLM and as a lifter and in this case tax payer? IRS here measures by two sizes? Does the Secretary of State agree with my group that there is a risk that future zoonoses will again affect international mobility? Isn't that now an entrepreneurial risk for which a company like KLM should prepare itself with its business operations? Mr. Chairman. The export of business driven electric cars is increasing. It is to be welcomed that a market for second-hand electric cars is being created, but preferably in the Netherlands. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine whether electric cars aged five years and over can be brought under the youngtimer scheme, based on the actual value, so that they are retained for the Netherlands? Last October, finance officials in the economist's magazine ESB complimented the Secretary of State for doing so: 80% of the innovation box tax discount has reached less than 20 large companies, which together have raised EUR 1.5 billion. This discount shall be granted after the innovation has been successful and profitable. The tax administration does not impose any requirements on the sustainability of innovation, nor does it require the money to be invested in new innovation. Booking.com is an example of an unsustainable company that has benefited on a large scale. Is this information correct and is the innovation box discount in the eyes of the Secretary of State an optimal use of tax money? I'd like an answer. Speaking of a box, I have just received the message that Tax Service employees, if I may call it a Christmas package, have received a drink box with chips, beer and wine in it as well as dried sausage. I ask the Secretary of State if this is a good example of a good gift at this time. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my final point. The king is exempt from income tax, i.e., bpm and largely from capital efficiency tax and inheritance tax. He has, as you know, applied for an annual grant of €700,000 for the management of the Crown Domain. I will table a motion calling on the King to make a generous gesture and refrain from subsidies as long as he enjoys duty-free. These were my questions and I look forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. Mr Van Rooijen has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. The Tax Plan 2022 is a Demissionary Tax Plan of a nine-month Demissionary Cabinet. But the House of Representatives is not outgoing and has done a lot of co-legislative work, not least by accepting the Hermans and others motion, with measures of 2 billion, with something for everyone. Fortunately, the cabinet was not left behind, with a package of 3.2 billion in support as relief for the gas price explosion. The tax plan before us is still extensive, with many proposals, which have little to do with the actual and pure tax legislation. This is a process which, unfortunately, cannot be reversed, whereby the Tax Administration is given the task of carrying out more and more side-effects and tasks. The Tax Administration is defenseless, because I do not know of a cabinet that protects the Tax Administration from ever more tasks, which are becoming less and less feasible, through the accumulation of new rules. The Tax Administration as head of Jut and State Secretary of Finance as a target; it is a great drama. My group has great respect for the two Secretary of State for Finance of D66 House, Van Huffelen and Vile Letter, who do not run away from fulfilling these dog jobs. Jobs which in many respects are heavier than those of many ministers or other State Secretarys. But for Secretary of State Vijlbrief there will be a "function elsewhere," I ask. And is there going to be a separate Minister of Taxation, as my motion asks tomorrow, or is there going to be a Minister of Social Security Surcharges, so I suddenly suspect tonight? I would like, perhaps very modestly, a response from the rulers, particularly Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief. I come to purchasing power and income policy for pensioners. Tax policy and pension indexation rules have a major impact on the purchasing power of pensioners. These indexation rules have also resulted in no indexation of pensions since the negotiations on the pension agreement. And because the preparation of the draft Pension Bill for the future is called the "Retirement Plan" to wait for ever longer, 3 million pensioners, but also 7 million workers are waiting for a fair and decent increase in the pension and the increase in the build-up of employees. Introduction takes four years to be accepted, and in the meantime there is no provision for indexation in the transitional period. The promise of indexation in 2022 with retroactive effect as a result of the Van Dijk motion appears to be a pacifier: only one in ten pensioners gets a little indexation. After all, the requirement of 105% policy coverage is far too heavy, and moreover you have to place your own pension rights on the sacrificial block; expropriation by entry. The ABP, Care and Welfare and the two metal pension funds do not increase pensions in 2021 and 2022. No indexation is very severe in the low inflation rate of the last 14 years of 1.5% on average, but it is terrible, a terrible purchasing power blow, with 7% inflation, at least in this year and next year. 3 million pensioners will be in tortured uncertainty over the purchasing power of their pensions in the coming years, because any new Pension Act should be in the Official Journal before there is any clarity about indexation. After all, the transition ftk for the transitional period until 2027 is part of that law, as well as the announced general measure of governance, as implementation of the Van Dijk motion. I call that tying in optima forma. But I also think that the word "blackmail" is, unfortunately, not inappropriate in this case. Remember that many elderly people who haven't received an index for fifteen years I'm one; at the ABP I don't only have purchasing power anymore, for other reasons I do, but they don't have so many years left either. Mind you, not so many years left to live on. "Let's not protest," I hear, "it doesn't make any sense anymore, and 1% is better than 0%." This left-over reaction of many people, also in emails I get, makes me very sad, but unfortunately I hear it more and more often. Mr. Chairman. In each tax plan, income policy must play a prominent role, but all the more so because the purchasing power of pensioners with 7% inflation in these two years is hit hard. Pensioners feel that directly in their wallet, and that is why tax legislation is very important as a supplement. But because the cabinet is outgoing, no policy measures have been proposed, with the result that also AOW's will not receive any additional tax cuts. That's extra navrant when your pension's frozen, too. Inflation in 2021 is now estimated at an average of 2.7%, but is at a current level of 5.2%, and even 5.9% if we look at the European so-called HICP inflation index. That is much higher than the 1.9% estimated in the draft budget. The expected inflation rate of 3.5% in 2022 is already much higher than the estimated 1.8% in the draft budget. Everyone's purchasing power is falling, but pensioners are the hardest. The increase in gas prices affects older people more strongly, as shown by the letter from the State Secretary of EZK of 15 October: 2% for AOWs and 1.4% for non-AOWs. AOWers receive a compensation of 0.8%, resulting in an additional decrease in purchasing power of over 1%. The purchasing power for '21 was already 0% and, in total, over 1% in the min. But that is without the big inflation blow of the last four weeks, which will recover. Our estimate is that pensioners will fall by 2% to 3% in 2021. There is also a difference in purchasing power decline between AOW's and non-AOW's of almost 2%. Let me give you an example of someone with an income of €40,000, a bit of a fashion. You have an employee with a wage of €40,000 and you have an AOW'er with an AOW of €17,000 and therefore €23,000 pension. Fortunately, wages increase by 2.5% over that €40,000 on average. That's exactly $1,000. The AOW rises by 2% over €17,000. That's €340. The pension of €23,000 simply stands still and is frozen. The total increase for the retired is €340. Happily, it is €1,000 for workers. It is a difference of €660. We can take note of that. The employee also gets €57 more tax reduction than the AOW'er through the tax rebates: €104 compared to €48. Conclusion: a delayed increase in the AOW for flying inflation, no pension increase in '21 and '22 and a poor crumb in the Tax Plan. In the Tax Plan, two paragraphs are devoted to income policy in the explanatory memorandum. It's been different. For example, the general tax discount will be increased by €36. Later €14 was added, so it is now €50. AOWers, however, receive only half of these increases, i.e. €25 on an annual basis. That's exactly $2 a month, not even a cup of coffee. After all, fiscal discrimination must and must remain in place. Pensioners do not share in the growth of the economy of 3.5% in 2021 and 2022. Mr. Chairman. Then the AOW benefit itself. The AOW benefit will increase almost 2% in 2021, with €24 gross from €1.266 to €1.290 per month. On 1 July, at least for the time being, 1% will follow. That'll be $12. €36 in a year and a half. That is almost 3% increase in the AOW at a price increase of at least 7% in those two years. And because pensions will not be increased in 2022, my group is thinking of increasing the AOW benefit. I'll get back to you on that. In the written preparation we specifically pointed to the 350,000 AOWs without a pension or with a small pension up to €500 per month. We asked whether it would be possible to redeem the general tax rebate for this group. According to the ANBO, this would mean €736 less tax for those AOWs. In reply to our question, the Secretary of State understands this; he is nodding, but unfortunately I too do not have the opportunity to make this cash-flow possible in the current system. Omtzigt early last week in a motion in the Lower House for 4% additional increase in the minimum wage. In his motion there was nothing about the link to the AOW and the benefits, but fortunately he made that clear. Omtzigt also wants a linked increase in the minimum wage. I ask the Secretary of State if an unconnected increase in the minimum wage, as suggested by the CPB, is an option for this cabinet. It could do this in part: the minimum wage added 5% extra and the AOW only 2.5%, for example, half a link. But can you rule this out for my group? Because 50PLUS will fight for maintaining the linking of the full 100% of the AOW and the assistance to the minimum wage. We consider that to be a question of civilisation. Last week, following the debate in the Social Affairs budget on 10 December, Secretary of State Wiersma sent a letter to the House of Representatives in which he gave the lowest incomes an additional compensation of €200 for the increase in energy costs, especially the recent one. In the letter I read to my bewilderment another word I cannot agree that only AOW's are eligible without a pension and also only on request from the municipality. My question is: how big is this group of AOWs without a pension? If that were 150,000 people, I don't know, then this means that there is an estimated group of 200,000 AOWs with a small pension of up to €500 gross per month. This will mean that people with a pension of €50 or €100 per month will not get €200 at all. The AOW's without a pension must apply for this allowance of €200 from the municipality itself. I call that begging in the city. I call that a new form of poor care. That can't be true, can it? Our group asked about the possibilities to increase the AOW by 2% or to increase it separately by €300 extra on an annual basis. In the detailed and clear reply of the Secretary of State in the note following the final report, the Secretary of State refers to the AOW grant in relation to the €300. He says that this increase requires a legislative amendment lasting six months, which is retroactive, because it is a so-called "favourable' measure. An increase of 2% in the AOW benefit itself requires a legislative amendment, but it takes 18 months. An execution test should also be made. What does the Secretary of State think against the background of his answer and our question of a one-off increase of €300 extra and of the suggested technique of compensation? This concession is called "AOW purchasing power meeting" and now amounts to €26 per month on top of the ordinary AOW benefit? Overall, this will be a one-off increase of 2% next year. My group is considering a second-term motion. We are of course extremely interested in the reaction of the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Our written questions and my contribution to this debate show our great concern about the increasing decline in the purchasing power of the elderly, of 3 million AOWs. The 50PLUS Group must constantly raise the issue of tax age discrimination. This tax burden on the elderly is becoming increasingly oppressive. I therefore have to assess the tax proposals on this. Under the motto "lower taxes on labour," the elderly are getting harder and harder, because taxation is a zero sumgame: what you give one, you take away from the other. I also hear and read rumours about the cabinet formation, namely that the tax on labour will have to be reduced further. Income and payroll taxes are levied on income from labour. That is according to the law: wages and deferred wages on former labour, so pension. According to the law, there is no tax on labour. However, the tax trick has been invented to turn labour costs into a tax subsidy for workers. This offers unprecedented ways of turning the purchasing power buttons and also using it as a superleveling tool through the additional instrument of income-dependent phasing-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u19	I heard the term "fiscal age discrimination," but I actually thought AOWers had a more favourable income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u20	Yeah, I'm familiar with that, too, but the AOW is a public insurance policy. The CDA, I, my group and hopefully other groups still think so. That means you're paying bounty until you get your AOW. If you go with AOW, you don't pay an AOW premium anymore. That seems clear to me. It's public insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u21	Did you mean "tax age discrimination"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u22	By "tax age discrimination," I mean that workers... Let me rephrase. Pensioners only have half the general tax discount. The workers have a working discount of €4,000, while the elderly have an old-age discount of €1,600 to €1,700. I will come back to that in a moment with numbers. That's a huge difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u23	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u24	That employment discount costs 24 billion. The answer to our question as to what percentage can be reduced in the event of the abolition of the labour cut was 6,18%. Then the fare goes to 30%. Fantastic! Mind you, that's a reduction for everyone, young and old. The employment discount is €4.260. Along with the general tax discount of €2,888, workers have a total tax discount of €7,148. For comparison: AOW's have a total tax discount of €3,220. Workers therefore have a tax advantage, Mrs Prast, of almost €4,000 a year net, €340 net per month. If that's not discrimination, I don't remember. The employment discount has another advantage in store for workers. In practice, they pay almost no AOW premium. Workers, according to the answers to our questions, pay between 1.5% and 8% instead of 18%. Zzp'ers don't pay an AOW premium at all. The benefit of a 12% lower AOW premium goes up to €4,000, Mrs Prast. Another €4,000! The reduction in working hours has gone crazy, but politics loves it, under the guise of labour market policy, which obviously does not include those who are no longer employed. You can continue to raise them and then eventually all workers will no longer pay an AOW premium. Only the AOWs, Mrs Prast, pay the 18% premium or, under a different name, 18% tax. It shouldn't get weirder; it's the world upside down. And there's another catch. Employees do not pay the 7% care premium. That pays the boss and that since 2013 is the notorious Wul, the Law standardization wage concept. That has become unpaid since then. This is another €1,000 tax benefit for workers. AOW'ers, Mrs Prast, have to pay that 6% health care premium for themselves and that amounts to over €3,000 care premium. That's the infamous income-dependent care contribution. Why do I mention this discrimination? Because the suffering of fiscal discrimination does not seem to come to an end. 50PLUS wants to block that road and place a stop sign on that road. Mr President, I am at the end of my speech. If it's all right with you, I'd like to make one more comment. I have already said that I have great appreciation for both the rulers who are here. I look forward to an exchange of views with them and I wish them a great deal of strength and wisdom in the final phase of this post as Secretary of State for Finance. I'm telling you right now, because it's now in place in the first term. I look forward to the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Then the floor is for an interruption to Mr Van Raven of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr Van Rooijen has mentioned a number of points which indeed show some disadvantage for the elderly. It's very convincing what he said. I missed one very important thing in that. You touched the point at the beginning of your speech, but you did not go into it further. That is the indexing. The indexation over the past 13 years, rising to around EUR 40 billion, which has not been paid out. How do you feel about that? 'Cause I can't hear you talking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u27	This time I have held back on this dossier, because it does not always fit in with the debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u28	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u29	I didn't even mention the word "calculation rate." Well, here's the deal. But of course, due to the arithmetic rate of zero, the indexing is also zero. You said 40 billion. That's right. I think it's 43 billion in missing indexing. Pensions have not been indexed for 15 years and will not be indexed in the coming years. I believe that I have made that clear; that is because we have to wait for that new law in four years' time. If there is no index for flying inflation of 7% or 10% in two years, I therefore believe that the AOW can be increased once again next year at least. And if the minimum wage were to be increased structurally, we know that tomorrow evening, then by linking the AOW, which I have to and want to go on, also goes up. An increase of €300 is then a half-year ahead of that. Maybe I'm going to table a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u30	I want to help you a little bit. I hope you'll support me, too. During the same period, pension funds' reserves increased by 1,200 billion. 40 billion of them have been withheld. Professors have calculated that the non-indexation measure accounted for 0.25% of what should actually have been paid. So that really hasn't had any effect. My question is to try to correct that, perhaps in a broader context, but also in this Chamber. We shouldn't leave that. We shouldn't let the older generation tip away. They paid for it for years. We have put people who have retired in a position where they cannot defend themselves and in which all of this is done to them. I hope you will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u31	Two or three years ago, I submitted an own-initiative proposal for a temporary calculation rate of 2% to the House of Representatives. That's laughed and hoarded in the Lower House. Corrie van Brenk, my colleague from the 50PLUS Group when I went to the First Chamber, retabled that initiative bill for the duration of the transition phase. Fortunately, the Socialist Group has accepted this initiative proposal, with another 2%. That can therefore be put to the vote before the municipal elections on the other side. That's what I expect. If it is adopted just before that election, and I expect it to be, I expect it to come here and get support from you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u32	With great admiration for Mr Van Rooijen's enormous know-how, I go back a little bit in his speech. I understand that he indicated that older pensioners receiving €17,000 AOW plus €23,000 pension, i.e. €40,000 in total, would improve €350 next year, and workers about €1,000. Does he have that $1,000 in mind then gross or net? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u33	That was, of course, gross. Wage is gross, so 2% of it is gross. I thought you'd ask a question about the one-earner. We are always very much in agreement on that. We'll get that chance together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u34	Of course, I don't want to disappoint Mr. Van Rooijen, so I want to answer his question about the one-earner immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u35	That was entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u36	Yeah, that was entrapment. Does Mr Van Rooijen know that the marginal pressure for two-earners is at €40,000 41%? So of that €1,000 you have €590 left. For a earner, that's 77%. So they only have €230 left. Does Mr Van Rooijen agree with me that it is even worse for a earner than for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u37	Half of that €340 AOW is also removed, or at least one third. I agree with you: you can say that one earner alongside the elderly is discriminated against against two earners. It used to be just the one-earners. We've had a lot of debates on that, across the street and here. The SGP and 50PLUS were and agree that this should actually be corrected. I have that feeling with the CDA, too, but maybe we'll hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u38	I hear Mr Van Rooijen is concerned about the position of AOW beneficiaries with no or very little pension. I get that when you look at, for example, inflation, energy costs, etc. Should this care not also apply to people who do not belong to the old age category, but who simply have to rely on a minimum benefit or a WAO benefit? At least that is how I wanted to put it in my contribution to the cabinet. They're in the same boat, aren't they? Would it not then be chic, I would ask Mr Van Rooijen, to include it in this debate not only for the elderly who suffer from this, but also for that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u39	That is a very fair question. I've been thinking about that, too. I assume that in the coalition agreement the minimum wage will increase structurally. If that does not happen, I expect the House of Representatives itself to demand it, possibly with an initiative bill, but I cannot imagine that. Then the AOW and the assistance are linked to it. My group believes that this should remain a 100% link. What we are talking about now is that the people who have AOW and who have no pension or a very small pension are very badly affected, and that also applies to welfare workers because of this flying inflation. We have said: at least for the AOWs with very small pensions next year, let us raise the AOW once with what is called the "Meeting AOW'ers." This is an existing arrangement. But I fully agree with you that the assistance should also be given in this respect. Perhaps we can come back to that together in this Chamber in the next term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u40	Then it would be a gain if Mr Van Rooijen, perhaps tomorrow, made a further proposal that not only benefits AOW'ers with no pension or a small pension, but also does something for the group we were talking about: welfare recipients, WAO'ers and people who, for whatever reason, have to live on a minimum income.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u41	Yes. I tabled this proposal in writing in this debate, because on 23 November a motion from my group on an AOW supplement of €200 already received 37 votes. I thought that if I were to return it now and because of the flying inflation with a slightly higher amount, it might be able to support it in the vote tomorrow or next week. But I'd like to see if there's anything else we can do at that point. Moreover, your group also supported this motion a few weeks ago, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u42	Another question, if you'll allow me. Mr Van Rooijen impressed this Chamber with a filippica against tax age discrimination. Can Mr Van Rooijen tell me what are the two largest tax subsidies known to our tax system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u43	Quite apart from the question of what a "fiscal subsidy" is, but if I move into you, you may be referring to the mortgage interest deduction and the pension premium deduction. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u45	That's one. The mortgage interest rate deduction is, of course, already limited and is even more limited. Fortunately, there are no proposals to limit or abolish the deduction of pension contributions. Because do you realize that, because these pension contributions are deductible, pension benefits are taxed? For that reason only: deduction of contribution, benefit taxed. By now, there's 1,800 billion in that pot. Pension benefits are already over 40 billion. The State receives 13 billion of this every year. That is much more than the deduction of pension contributions, at very low rates, costs. That's actually the answer. The State is the largest investor in the Netherlands because it is actually the silent shareholder of a third of its pension assets, with a tax claim of 450 to 500 billion by now. Secretary of State File Letter knows that, too. In the coming decades, the State will receive nearly 500 billion in taxes on additional pension benefits. We have a fantastic system, and the state is a bacon buyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u46	I am looking for balance in this debate. So I have to hear from Mr Van Rooijen where the balance is in his story. On the one hand, he lists all the disadvantages. I don't think some of them were right, but I don't want to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u47	Well, you'll have to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u48	He lists all kinds of disadvantages in the tax system at the expense of the elderly, while the two largest tax subsidies at the pension and home are. Mr Van Rooijen's supporters are therefore the main beneficiaries of this tax subsidy. If we really want to think carefully about a future-proof tax system, we must also consider that these tax subsidies are countries in the tax system, which leads to a certain tax burden, which we in the Netherlands usually impose on working people or on consumption. This has been the practice of the tax system for decades: two royal subsidies which benefit certain groups to a very large extent. I think that the balance in the debate on who is rightly or wrongly treated in the Netherlands would really benefit. It would be a credit to Mr Van Rooijen if he were to include that in his reflections from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u49	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u50	In my opinion, Mr Vendrik is a little off the path he went on, because he is now also talking about the tax-related home. He should know from me that my group, Mr Van Kesteren, with the CDA last time, opposes the move from one's own house to box 3. The elderly are once again suffering extremely badly because they are the ones who have paid off their mortgage and are therefore taxed entirely for the full value of the house, while the workers, the young, have a mortgage and will therefore be much less affected. Every example I mention or put on the table in politics is a disaster for the elderly. I'll mention another one. Your group is in favour of this. Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u51	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u52	GroenLinks also wants the fiscalisation of the AOW. This means an increase in the AOW of 11 billion, of which after the compensation for the AOW on the basis of net net tax increase for AOWs remains 6 billion. If I haven't made it clear to you how older people get caught, then I don't remember. But maybe we should talk about that some other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u53	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u54	I wonder if you are prepared to withdraw the proposal in your programme on taxing the AOW tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u55	You will be given a second term, in which you can continue to do so. I shall now move on to the next speaker. That's Mr. Essers. In the meantime, for the record, Mr Van Rooijen, I would like to inform you that a motion which has been held is not actually being retabled. But she can still be proposed by you to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u56	Yeah, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mr Essers on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am modesty after all this violence by Mr Van Rooijen, but I will try to do so. Due to the missionary status of the current cabinet, the government describes the tax package 2022 as "policy limited in scope'. This is without prejudice to the fact that the members of the Finance Commission have had to process kilos of paper in order to be able to take up this policy limited package. To many of the questions raised by these Members, the government answers that it cannot respond to them because of that missionary status. However understandable that may be, it does not promise much good for the quality of content of the debate we are having today and tomorrow. Nevertheless, I hope and trust that the current finance ministers will not hide behind this easy exodus, nor do I know them, but that they will take advantage of the opportunity and accept the challenge of looking back at the last four years of fiscal policy just before the start of a new cabinet, while also looking ahead to the need for new policies. Necessary, because the problems with the current tax and surcharge system are building up. They can no longer be solved with a tariff measure here or a tax incentive there. There can be no escape from a fundamental overhaul of this system. It should also be mentioned in one breath that the functioning and capacity of the Tax and Fees Service need to be drastically improved, not least in terms of ICT capacity and quality. This is also worrying about the relationship between the Tax Administration and the tax administration. the department has recently been under pressure with tax advisers and their professional organisations. I shall come back to that later in my speech. But, Mr President, there are current developments that do not allow further delay. I am referring, among other things, to the out-of-control inflation. This mainly affects people who have saved some money and AOW'ers with a small pension. What is being done to improve the purchasing power of the latter, I specifically ask the cabinet. And to what extent does rising inflation affect this cabinet's plans to tax the actual return in box 3? Is that actually a return, as it should be, correcting the rate of return for inflation? Let me now turn to some other, more structural problems of our tax system. The key problem is that one of the most important principles of tax law, the principle of equality, is not fully respected. When assessing this principle, it is always questionable whether the existing legal differences also justify differences in tax treatment. Without any attempt at completeness, I mention the differences in treatment between entrepreneurs/zzp'ers and employees, between homeowners and tenants, between investors and other categories of taxpayers, but also between investors, between payment recipients, between Ib entrepreneurs and dgas with their e.g., between SMEs and large, often multinational companies. I can go on like this for a while. Last year, this Chamber drew attention, among other things, to the problem of the lack of an overall balance between the taxation of the Ib entrepreneur and the dga and his e.g. A motion adopted in the Chamber during that debate has recently resulted in a fine overview on the part of the cabinet with the reasons for the lack of that overall balance and possible solutions. However, making choices between these solutions is, not surprisingly, left to a subsequent cabinet. Mr. Chairman. But what surprises us if the CDA Group's response to a question states that a major revision of the tax system would not necessarily be necessary to reduce the difference in tax burden between Ib entrepreneurs, profit-holders, employees and DGAs with their e.g.? Unfortunately, this answer reeks of pappen-en-wetten measures and symptom-opportunities, as we see, for example, in the legislative proposal that has been adopted, which only applies to loans from e.g. to the dga of more than half a million euros. There are fundamental differences that cannot be resolved by such measures. See, for example, the fundamental difference in treatment in the distinction between business and investment assets of an Ib entrepreneur, which is based on the learning of capital labelling, and the absence of this distinction in the e.g. under the corporate fiction of Article 2 (5) Corporate Tax Act, allowing dga's box 3 investments to be included in their e.g. and to postpone box 2 charges. An e.g. business wage and rental payments to its dga for the application of corporate tax may also deduct from the profit calculation, while an ib entrepreneur cannot. Dga again has to do with a standard wage and posting scheme, not an Ib entrepreneur. An Ib entrepreneur can also not take out a civil and fiscally recognised loan with his Ib company, as opposed to dga with his e.g. If you look at these examples alone, it is more than clear that you are not there with a simple adjustment of the rates to resolve these differences. The whole boxing system will have to be taken into account. The ib entrepreneur is in box 1, with many business facilities, and the dga in box 2, with many income delays. The investments of the Ib entrepreneur are taxed in box 3, while the investments in the e.g. are fictively classified as entrepreneurial assets. Similar questions may be asked with regard to the problem ofzzp in relation to the tax treatment of employees. We ask the Secretary of State for Finance to reflect on this, with special attention to the functioning of Article 2 (5) Corporate Tax Act and to borrow the expected future of the retained legislative proposal. Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA Group that by providing more scope for DGAs in a new system and their e.g. with real business activities, the current tax profit rates for SMEs can be substantially reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u59	I'm gonna wait, because I think you've been talking about the block about entrepreneurs and capital taxes in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u61	Can you comment on the article by Cnossen and Jacobs, by the way, a proposal from last year's booklet, that you should treat all assets equally, which in fact you implicitly say, and that with one approach, with equal bases and equal rates, you remove all that arbitration?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u62	If you ask me about my opinion on Bas Jacobs' article, that is a very great deal taken from my heart. But I've been yelling that for a long time. I've been standing here for a while. If you read my contributions to all these tax plans of recent years, you will see that this was constantly my speech. You must treat equal cases equally and unequal cases in proportion to inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u63	Perhaps we can agree that if we speak here next year, perhaps you will be Secretary of State or Minister, but apart from that, we shall ask the new Cabinet to propose it. We've been saying this to each other for years. The First Chamber will of course have an important role to play, without us you will also have no majority to bite together next year on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u64	I very much invite Mr Crone to do so. So far, the problems I have raised have been addressed, but it is often symptom reduction. If you want to do this thoroughly, you really need to put dots on the horizon and work towards it. Those dots on the horizon are still missing far too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u65	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u66	I see hope now for the first time in these new coalition negotiations, because I expect that all this is not just said, so we can have a nice capital tax debate next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u67	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr Esser called on the Secretary of State to reflect on the past four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u69	Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u70	Essers, excuse me. That is what I am doing to Mr Essers. What has happened in that fiscal debate over the last four years? What exactly was the coalition agreement? Why didn't the Cabinet do what you advocate here? Why do you seem to be doing the same analysis here as four years ago? What did we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u71	What did we do? Of course, it starts with making plans. We have to wait and see what is in the new coalition agreement, but you can see very quickly that people are adapting to the heat of the day. You have to start making plans that actually produce results in about four years' time. If you don't, you're gonna keep chasing the facts. Then you have to borrow a bill that does solve something, but which the practice can easily adapt to. That is not a fundamental solution to the problem of box 2 in relation to box 3 and box 1. As long as you don't... You were able to see that last time at the Income Tax Act 2001. That was a lot of years ago. If you continue in that pattern, you will not come to fundamental solutions. And if it doesn't happen now, we'll be back to the same story in four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u72	In the context of a bit of self-reflection, the CDA was one of the forming parties in 2017, just like it is now. Then why didn't the CDA enforce it at the time? Why didn't the CDA's First Parliamentary Group say right away in 2017: that's not how we're gonna do it; we need that fundamental tax review? Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u73	I can't take responsibility for that. Let me remind you of the debate you just had with Mr Van Rooijen. It's about the whole thing, of course. It is not just a question of taxation. It's a total package and you have to make choices in it. I understand that very well. However, it is sometimes necessary to recognise that the failure to make choices in the field of taxation is spreading in many other areas. You have to pay a price for that at some point. If we cut back on the IRS, you'll get what you sowed. Then you know that a service at some point isn't up to that challenge. The moment we recognise that, we must be prepared to invest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u74	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u75	Can I take it in such a way that Mr Essers is actually saying here: if the new coalition agreement does not really contain a comprehensive, comprehensive package of fiscal reforms in which we do things well, then the new cabinet cannot do business with this CDA group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u76	No, you can't draw that conclusion. I hope and expect important choices to be made in the field of taxation, but I also understand that there are considerations, that the CDA is not the only party in this coalition, that there are four parties and that it is already a very difficult matter to reach a compromise. I've been walking with you for a while. In this respect, my expectations are not too high, but I think that you should continue to point out from the Chamber: what is the problem? Let us not pretend that all these measures really lead to a fundamental review.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u77	You continue your argument, Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u78	Then I'm gonna talk about my own place. We also believe that the tax regime for own homes needs a thorough review, if only because of the great complexity of the mess of regulations. We ask the Secretary of State to shed light on this, with special directions for solutions, with special attention being paid to the defiscalisation of his own home. By no longer including your own house in box 1, but also not transferring it to box 3.............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u79	I just wanted to come back to the Wet excessive borrowing. We have also recently tabled a motion on this subject, which has not been supported by the CDA. If I understand correctly, you are in favour of this legislation. Do I understand that correctly from your speech, Mr. Essers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u80	No, I said it's symptom control. Symptom control means you don't solve the core of the problem. Nevertheless, sometimes it may be good to remove a symptom, because then you have at least taken a step in that direction, but it is not a fundamental solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u81	No, that it's not a solution, I totally agree with you. That's why I tabled our motion. But I would like to point out that it is in five tons. In most major cities you can hardly buy a floor for that. House prices have, of course, risen enormously. I am now getting a lot of emails and worried messages from entrepreneurs who are already anticipating that legislation. That is why we have said: give clarity and postpone it. Because certainly with the corona a lot of entrepreneurs have already been hit extra. So this is hanging over their heads like a new millstone for a lot of people right now. Does Mr Essers agree with me that it is really beneficial for SMEs to get out of the corona crisis if you come up with this kind of new measures, even if he thinks it is symptom reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u82	Colleague approaches it on another side, namely: to what extent is it in favour of dga's? Of course, such a law limits their ability. I am mainly talking about the problem of box 2, with the possibility of income delay, in relation to box 3 and box 1. Ib-entrepreneurs cannot borrow from their companies at all. This can only be done by a dga, because the e.g. is seen as a separate legal entity. That is not a solution to the problem. You say that many people need that money now in the context of the corona crisis. Yeah, that's another story. But I wasn't talking about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u83	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u84	No, but you're solving a problem in the patient's leg while he's having a problem with his heart. So you're actually making the problem even worse. Because of the corona, there's another 16 billion in tax debts. That's what the Secretary of State said last time. If this law comes on top of that, which everyone is already predicting, a lot of people are going to think... And a lot of people have of course borrowed money from an e.g. in the corona crisis, because there was just no income. I would really like to strongly advise the CDA to reconsider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u85	We do that all the time. I would like to make the following point. I am convinced: if you are looking for a good solution, you can meet SMEs with real, real business activities at much lower rates. The problem now is that it is very easy to invest in an e.g. The question is, are you going to solve the corona crisis with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u86	You continue your argument, Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u87	Another question addressed to the Secretary of State concerns the problems of investors buying up houses and then renting them out at high rents. Is it not time to mark the border with entrepreneurship or income from other activities more clearly in the law in relation to investment rather than to continue to rely on the vague, in practice unworkable concept of "normal asset management," as developed in the case law? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the problem of payment, the child care scandal first. Much has already been said about this and much will undoubtedly be said about it in this Chamber, also following an evaluation carried out by the Working Party of the First Chamber on its own role in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u88	I did not know that Mr Essers, partly due to the interruption, stopped at his own house. He said he's 50PLUS against moving to box 3. I heard him say he's actually in favour of defiscalization, so you're gonna get it out of box one, too. I have also put that forward in the General Financial Reviews. I am actually asking Mr Essers if we can not see together in the next few days how we will achieve this if the cabinet does not come up with that and even go cycling to box 3. Can we then defiscalise the house from box 1?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u89	I am always willing to listen to good proposals and work together, but I also hope to hear from the cabinet that it does not think that De Nederlandsche Bank's proposal is a good idea, especially in view of the constellation of very high prices. That's not a good idea. This will not contribute to the removal of the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u90	Thank you for the clear answer. Finally, don't you think with me I'm also looking at the rulers that it's weird that Klaas Knot, the president of the independent Dutch Bank, is calling out? In my view, that is not his supervisory task, not his regulatory task and you name it. I am surprised that there will be no reaction from the cabinet and from some groups, other than yours and mine, which might give the impression of the forming groups, which the CDA, fortunately, is part of, that they can do so, that they can move it to box 3. If the house goes to box 3, it will lead to a burden increase of 5 billion to 8 billion for the people. Read De Telegraaf from last week, where that is perfectly in line. The elderly in particular will be affected, because they have already paid off their mortgage. So they're about the full excess value, which is to pay the whole value, and that's to pay the whole value, and that's to pay the full value, and that's to pay the whole value, and that's to pay the full value, and that's to pay the full value, and that's to pay That's like $5,000 in a house of 5 tons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u91	I am always pleased that a renowned institute such as De Nederlandsche Bank thinks along with advice and proposals, but I did not think this was the best proposal. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u92	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. What worries us a great deal about the problem of allowances is how to deal with the compensation of the affected parents. Does not the next debacle threaten to arise here, or is it not already mentioned? One compensation proposal takes advantage of the other, but in the meantime the group of disabled parents who have still not been compensated is increasing. We call on the Secretary of State responsible for the surcharges to take this into account, paying particular attention to her intention not only to accommodate the injured parents, but also to pay attention to children, former spouses and creditors. In our opinion, it would be much better and more efficient to start by fully compensating the disabled parents and only then the other categories. Now the Secretary of State seems to stir up the already high frustrations of the victims, because the waiting lists of those who have been waiting far too long for compensation are only increasing, while new candidates are always registering. I'd like a response. I would also ask the Secretary of State to respond to the recent revealing article by Jesse Frederik in De Correspondent entitled How the compensation scheme for the supplementing affair is getting out of hand. Then we call for attention to be paid to some EU and OECD developments. Part of this tax package is a government proposal in response to the so-called Sofina judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on a case in which France was convicted for violating the freedom of movement of capital, because that country treated foreign loss-making shareholders worse than loss-making domestic shareholders. The question is whether the solution proposed in the tax package to limit the possibility of domestic shareholders to offset dividend tax is not at odds with the principle of the Court of Justice in that Sofina judgment. Is it right to tax domestic investors more heavily because of a decision by the Court which was just aimed at making the set-off of pre-charges as flexible as possible internationally for the sake of EU Treaty freedoms, in this case the freedom of movement of capital and the internal market? Is it not wrong to give the impression that this increase in costs is due to Europe? The result is that the European idea of freedom of movement of capital is being undermined, as we have seen in particular in the approach to fiscal unity. I'd like a response. The tax package 2022 also regulates the withdrawal of last year's much-discussed debt that was also in this Chamber as well as the Job-related Investment Discount, the BIK. According to the government, this was necessary because the European Commission did not wish to give any assurance that the BIK would qualify as authorised State aid. In the meantime, the funds involved with the BIK are, in part, destined for very different purposes by the government and the House of Representatives. Once again, the EU is being blamed again. However, the question is to what extent the possibility of prohibited State aid was real, given the generic nature of the BIK. In addition, this measure was motivated by the corona crisis. Similar measures will also be envisaged in many other Member States. To what extent is it then likely that the European Commission would consider this scheme to be prohibited State aid? What exactly were the reasons for the European Commission to question the generic nature of the IJK? It is important to know this in relation to possible future proposals in this area. Or is it the case that the withdrawal of the BIK from the government was not so bad politically at all, especially in the formation time, and was the argument of prohibited state aid quickly found? On the BIK there has been a lot of justified criticism, but that was mainly because of the lack of preparation and design. For example, the name was wrong: there was no direct link to jobs at all. There was a lack of a disinvestment scheme. Moreover, the scheme was part of a much larger package, which did not do justice to the First Chamber because of the lack of the right of amendment. But the idea of using the BIK to stimulate both investment and reduce the burden on labour was not so crazy. This may still serve as an inspiration for the future design of tax business facilities aimed at reducing the burden on labour in exchange for burden-sharing for pollution. In the past, where the EU and in particular the Court of Justice of the European Union have stood out in the tax field as defenders of the four freedoms and thus of protecting citizens from tax attacks on the level playing field, the EU has, in recent years, been primarily a defender of multinationals that exploit the lack of harmonisation in the tax field by using tax avoidance structures. State aid proceedings against, inter alia, Starbucks and Apple, the planned introduction of BEPS, ATAD and BEFIT in conjunction with the spectacular plans of the G20 and OECD for the introduction of an adapted transfer pricing system in Pillar 1 and a global minimum rate of 15% in Pillar 2, are striking examples of this. The idea of a cross-border, common and consolidated corporate tax base, CCCTB, with the possibility of cross-border loss relief, which was originally intended as a concession to business, has also become the main focus of the prevention of tax avoidance with the proposed successor, BEFIT. Now we welcome the attention paid to combating aggressive tax constructions only allows this to be clear, but the approach to maintaining acceptance must be accompanied by a clear spending plan for the resulting additional revenues and, above all, balanced. It is appropriate, for example, that there is scope for counter-proofing for taxable persons, that the focus is not only on preventing double non-taxation and that double taxation is not seen as additional inevitable damage that taxpayers would do to themselves. During the discussion of the tax package we have also seen a few examples of so-called prohibitive legislation, which does not seem to take the use of proportionality and the prevention of double taxation seriously. In this context, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, in view of the time involved, not to go into the written exchange of views we have had on Article 8b to 8d in the context of matching differences in order to re-examine the relationship with non-subject or exempted bodies in an article. There is a great deal of uncertainty about this in practice. At least so important is that all the energy that goes into bringing about all these anti-emergency measures should not be at the expense of combating the many tax barriers that still exist within Europe. We haven't heard much about that lately. Does the Secretary of State agree with that analysis? Given the very limited area of application of the G20 and OECD's Pillar 2 measures, turnover should be higher than EUR 750 million, the question arises as to whether it is not expected to be too much when combating undue tax competition and aggressive tax planning. Indeed, due to this high limit, many companies remain outside the scope of that measure. In addition, investment funds and state-owned enterprises are exempted. Doesn't that last exemption give extra freedom to some countries where state-owned companies are common? Does this not discriminate against "ordinary" Vpb-based companies? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to these concerns. Mr President, in conclusion. We ask the rulers to reflect on the position of the Tax Administration. Is it going to be okay, and if so, when is it going to be possible to strengthen ICT structures and focus on the crucial role of the Tax Administration in the legal protection of citizens? Is it going to be okay with the self-confidence and the earlier strong esprit de corps of the service; fortiter in re, suaviter in modes? Moreover, is it not high time that the tax inspector had a human face again and that there was just another window where people could walk in with their questions? We also question the recent developments in the relationship between the Tax Administration/Ministry of Finance and the professional associations of tax advisors, in particular the NOB and the RB. With increasing amazement, we have followed the debate on whether or not the Secretary of State responds to the NOB's legislative opinions. As if there were some kind of state-law dogma that these opinions would have a higher status than the opinions of other interest groups. On the other hand, it is not appropriate to set these opinions aside in advance as one-sided and biased. Parliamentarians are well placed to make their own assessment in this respect. More generally, this discussion is characteristic of the hardening of the tone in which fiscalists have been debating each other lately, whereas they need each other more than ever in an increasingly complex society. Or has the spirit of cooperation strengthened at the beginning of the twenty-first century by the introduction of the then revolutionary concept of horizontal supervision, together with the introduction of the Tax Control Framework, disappeared to the far horizon fifteen years ago? We would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State for Finance on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u94	Thank you, Mr. Essers. I call Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am number seven and I am also the seventh in a family of eight children, so I know that you have to pep up a bit, not to the detriment of Mr Essers' very interesting story, which I support on many points. First of all, thanks to both Secretary of State for the job they've done so far, because that's not easy. I remember the last debate I had with Mr Snel. Then he made a promise to me, and three days later he resigned. His last commitment was about the energy tax and had nothing to do with his resignation. So you should not make promises to me; so you fall into your own sword, thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. The Secretary of State has, of course, got a job and now has a lot of things to do, but I like that he always likes the open debate and I thank him in advance; a bit like the old director of the CPB, as economists among themselves. I hope he keeps doing that in whatever role he plays. Then we'll correct it. So did Zalm. Sometimes he went along with things and suddenly he thought: oh, that's not political anymore. I would rather that than diving and not answering, as we experienced with his minister a few weeks ago. Also very much respect for Mrs Van Huffelen, of course. Unfortunately, I am not going to go into the matter of the supplementing affair in detail, because soon, probably this week, an internal working party from the First Chamber will be reporting on what we as legislator should have done better. That's gonna be interesting. We are also part of the problem ourselves. The others have already asked questions I would like to wait for the answer. The general line will be for me: lifting should be done on things that you want to discourage, and you need to reduce burdens in areas that you want to promote. Unfortunately, in this Tax Plan, this cabinet has made a few choices exactly in the wrong direction. I shall come back to this later on, which increases income disparities, discourages labour and does not help the environment better. Last year I predicted that this time I only wanted to talk about greening, but above all about: how do you ensure that greening in general, the transition, also lands fairly? Because making things more expensive is one side and that's what I'm for, but how do you sometimes compensate people and help them? But full of anticipation beats my green heart. I had, of course, written in my text that today the coalition agreement would come true, because that was promised last week. We can't do that anymore, so I hope the Secretary of State will answer as former Director CPB, and then show us how it should be done. Then we can see on Wednesday if that's what happened. So please say as much from your heart as possible. An important study that has just been published is from Leiden University and the CBS on the distribution of income in the Netherlands over the past 30 years, from 1990 onwards. Remarkable: Koen Caminada and others show that there is a remarkably incredibly constant net income distribution in the Netherlands. No one believed that, because we have all seen that there have been so many gross differences. But tax policy matters. We can very well correct them through tax policy, all the differences that have been there, through tax rates, discounts, surcharges, social security systems and so on. And that is remarkable, because I am always proud that we can correct the distortion of the market, so it is a pity that the cabinet makes a few mistakes; I will come back to that later, but the PvdA will continue to work on this. And remarkable: not only did this happen when we were in the coalition; right-wing Cabinets always want it, because otherwise we are going to oppose it. So it's remarkable how constant that income distribution is. Exactly, I think that in the Netherlands everyone thinks that we should have a fairly constant fair income distribution! Mrs Jorritsma is now reading my text for the second time, and a sentence before me. We've known each other for so long. Anyway, I'm proud that we've had that constant distribution, but that doesn't mean it's good; because "constant" doesn't mean "good." I am sure Mrs Jorritsma has not read that: the highest incomes pay too little, 49.5%. When I first came into the First Chamber, that was 72.5%. I am not saying that we have to go back, but the cabinet has put itself on hold, because with such a low top rate everything has to be paid by middle incomes; because of course we also have a lower limit. And then, of course, we're going to partially correct that top rate by income-dependent reduction of the discounts, which also makes middle incomes think: "Why 49.5%? I'm paying more by cutting off those discounts." The middle incomes get stuck, because they get compensated supplements. Well, the word "wretched" has already fallen. And on the other hand, there's nothing to get for the bottom of it, of course. I have asked questions about this, but I do not think the answers are satisfactory. But I am very curious to see if the Secretary of State will be able to tell us how this is going. Because, of course, the new cabinet is going to invest a lot. That's great, but are they gonna take it away from the middle incomes again? There is no other way, because the top rate is tight. Or can we get the perspective that there will be another high top rate? I can make an additional argument for that later. Where it goes wrong in the cabinet about income development, energy compensation is. The cabinet opts for a variant in which low incomes fall 1% and high incomes only 0.5%. Why is that? Why do you not ensure that the people at the bottom, who are least flexible in their purchasing power, get better income compensation? But the cabinet is not retarded, so Secretary of State Wiersma made a gesture of goodwill on Friday: people at the bottom get some extras. But we're going to build another kind of premium circus for that. Then you have to go to the city, a bureaucratic approach, and it just costs 20 to 30 million, I read somewhere. People need to check in. Moreover, that is not worthy, that people should report; that is poverty policy. And in this case I would like to ask Secretary of State Van Huffelen, but also the other Secretary of State: is this going to be reduced again on the allowances? So then you get $200, then that's cut back on the surcharges, or is that only done after a year? Well, that's all beautiful then. It sounds elegant, but it's not pretty. It was nicer to just raise the rent payment slightly, instead of just the energy note. And with a small correction on the rental fee.... that costs administratively nothing at all... people get it automatically. My question is very specific: can we increase the rent payment instead of the rent payment, let's just say the tip approach of Secretary of State Wiersma? A technically super simple and superior instrument. By the way, the Woonbond and the FNV have shown that the distribution of purchasing power is much fairer for those involved. That is the question of energy compensation. Much has just been said about general purchasing power: there is insufficient fair purchasing power repair. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen's questions. Why doesn't Mr Vendrik say so for everyone, and not just the AOW? Then everyone benefits from that €200 or €300 once. Why does the cabinet not opt for a general income bonus? Mr. Chairman. The main point for me is the marginal pressure. I have said this in previous debates. The marginal pressure remains high. Luckily, it's a little flattened by now. At least the shocks are out. But the marginal pressure is actually so high for high incomes. High incomes have a marginal pressure of 49.5%. But the middle-incomes are the construction workers, the nurses, the teachers have a marginal pressure of 60%, 70%, even 80%. What kind of world is that upside down? We want these people not only to earn well, but also to work extra, to put in extra working hours. Otherwise, the cabinet will not be able to carry out all of its plans. So why is the marginal pressure for middle incomes 60%, 70%, 80%, while marginal pressure when you're above a tonne isn't even 50%? So a good argument to raise the top rate is: the top rate must be equal to the marginal pressure of middle incomes. Can there be a paragraph in the coalition agreement on this? I think the ex-director of the CPB will endorse this reasoning: if you want more people, more hours, in the labour market, you have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u96	Now Mr Crone is really putting the horse behind the cart. It is absolutely true that the marginal pressure on middle incomes is far too high. For single people with €30,000 it is already 81%, I saw in the response. That is, of course, absurd. But then, of course, you must not say: to correct that, we are going to tax higher incomes even more. No, we need to get more to a system like in England. I believe that you supported our motion at the time. There's a very high personal allowance. If you make more money, you lose it again. Then the high incomes are going to pay for that again. That makes it much more transparent. I believe that you supported this idea of our research at the time, because it makes it much easier for low and middle incomes in particular. It is also a much simpler and more transparent system than all of them introduce new fees and request things from the municipality. I agree with you: we should not do that. That's what makes it too complicated. Does Mr Crone agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u97	I certainly agree with your first point: the more discounts, the better. I helped to introduce this in the previous tax review, in 2001. Discount is better than deductions. The higher, the better. But this cabinet has completed them all again. They are now a kind of reverse deductions: the higher your income, the lower your discount becomes. This makes it unpredictable and complicated. The surcharges made it worse. That's why the discount has to rise generically. Or we need to raise the minimum wage. Then you also have a generic income increase. That's good. But you're avoiding that because that's what you started with, the top rate. Why should people who... I've literally asked that question, about those tables about that marginal pressure you're also referring to. I asked a question about those tables. In that you see that if someone with a high income is going to earn €1,000 more, they will get a tax of 49.5%, while a construction worker or a nurse who is going to earn €1,000 more will have to pay 60% or 70%. You agree with me that that's not fair, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u98	Yeah, but that's a logical approach, right? Those high incomes go asymptotically to that top rate. You're an economist yourself, aren't you? You can think of that yourself. That's what I call putting the horse behind the cart. Above all, something must be done about the general tax reduction at the bottom, for lower and middle incomes. You can say, there's too much pressure, so I'm going to increase the pressure upstairs. But that doesn't solve anything for those people, of course. I don't think that's the right approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u99	Can't we just agree that we both have to do it? So at the bottom up, with those discounts, and at the top up the top rate, because that's how you finance it. You have to get it from somewhere. Then it is fair and the marginal rate is the same for all working people. Because why do you think it's fair that high incomes pay less taxes than low incomes? There is no country in the world where it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u100	This is not intended in principle in the tariff system, but this marginal pressure does lead to that. Then you have to solve the problem there. We can also spend less money on all kinds of other things. The government apparatus costs 10% of our national product per year. I have said before that there is room for savings. All that poldering: we've now seen with corona that that just doesn't work. So there is a lot of room for streamlining, which can also finance tax cuts. That would be our answer to Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u101	Then I will go to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u102	I also had a question about this marginal pressure. Mr Crone was just talking about middle incomes. Which group is he about to join? A modal income is about €40,000. What exactly does Mr Crone mean by the middle incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u103	I asked those questions. That's what it's called in the response, isn't it? Yes, they are all neatly answered with a nice table and also with a colour chart, in which you see exactly whether the marginal pressure is due to the rates or the discounts or the surcharges. I know where you're going with this. I've been discussing that with you a lot. Of course, it's different for single people, single earners and two-earers, except for top incomes, because they're always at a maximum of 49.5%. But that is one of the reasons why I supported earlier questions not to lower child benefit, because that is wrong for all people. I have answered your question, I think. There are several options.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u104	A little more precise than that. What exactly does Mr Crone mean by the middle incomes? Is that above $40,000, what the mode is, or underneath?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u105	Well, I don't have a strict definition of it. For example, for two-earners, the middle income starts at €71.000. The 51% is at €71,000, with the two earners. But the single people and the single earners, of course, are a little higher, because otherwise we have them in the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u106	So I understand that a middle income would be about €71,000 with the Labour Party, but the average income in the Netherlands is about €40,000. We have also been given states by the Minister, in that beautiful blue booklet, in which you see that half of the workers earn between €18,000 and €30,000. So the middle incomes are 2.5 times above that. For example, if you take €40,000 from the two-earners, or take €31,000, they pay 59%. But if you are a single person, then I am not even talking about a single person who pays 88% tax on every extra euro earned. That's $0.12 left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u107	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u108	My question is: does Mr Crone agree with me that we need to look more precisely at what the groups we are talking about? At €71,000 in income, I'm honestly not so worried. But shouldn't we be focusing on low incomes and on the sole earner and the single earner? Because that's where it gets totally out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u109	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u110	I agree with you in part. That certainly helps with the higher discounts we just talked about. This group has the highest marginal pressure. For the rest, up to quite high in the income building, everyone suffers from this high pressure. It's much higher everywhere than that 49.5%. And that was my point. Of course, we need to fine-tune what we're going to come up with. I think the ex-director of the CPB puts down nice variants and then we'll see if that's the way it is in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u111	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u112	Yeah, finally. I understand from Mr Crone's whole speech that he says: we must treat people equally. Here we see that something is getting really out of hand. Shouldn't we put our finger on that and focus on that in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u113	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u114	Yeah, once. I would like to place the first emphasis on the fact that the highest incomes have the lowest marginal pressure. That's unequal treatment. You put a few things in there. As complicated as it is, I'm watching with you how we can solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u115	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u116	Mr. Chairman. The income study of the University of Leiden, which I praised as much, is not about property inequality. That's exactly what they say. There are, of course, major problems there, because power inequality has naturally increased over the last few decades. So I was gonna ask if there's gonna be another parade from Pen. I liked that proposal from the House of Representatives. Then we can discuss this next year. Now we are talking mainly about differences between tenants and their own homes, which we are talking about tomorrow, and I also have two points about entrepreneurial capabilities. First of all, there is tax avoidance. Several people have spoken about that now. The Secretary of State has said very generously in the First Chamber: it is a truth like a cow that because of these tariff differences in the Vpb at the bottom people will seek arbitration. I assume and I've heard that at a lot of Rotary Clubs and a lot of drinks tables people are watching how they can avoid this tax. It is to be commended that he is so honest in this, but he also loses his credibility if he does not draw a conclusion from it. I happen to come from a cow province, but that milk, that cow... next year will also find out that that arbitration took place. I therefore support the proposal, whether it be a novelle or something else, as Mr Vendrik said. Why don't you withdraw this proposal? This is at least as bad for credibility as the other point I want to talk about, namely box 3. But we can get rid of this. Then box three. It is obvious that we had a very nice discussion last year about box 3. Secretary of State, you then philosophized about the capital efficiency tax, but together we soon came up with the following. You can simply do a flat capital charge instead of a yield levy and fiction. Then you don't say: you have a return. No, you say: you just get a tax, exemption, about the assets. You went a long way with that, so that the CDA and the VVD stormed into the microphone, so to speak: this is not a cabinet policy, is it? Secretary of State, I think it was your suggestion at the time. I believe it came from D66's election program. But now you are all of a sudden very excited about a real capital efficiency levy. You are also asking about the PwC studies and whether all this can be controlled properly, while we said together last year: that will still be a paper shop. Ordinary people can't hide their assets, because that's on your giro account. But everyone else goes back to the tax advisors, of course. I have three questions about that. One. Secretary of State, why are you so excited now? For example, you still have to decide if the house is in it and if so, at what value. Two. You can then leave your assets in your boxes for a long time as deferred liquidity. You can then continue to invest at taxpayers' expense. Three. There is both the liquidity moment and the postponement of assets. I would also like to hear your comments on the following. Cnossen and Jacobs are now putting forward: do a capital return tax, but also do a flat-rate levy. Then I thought, "Maybe we'll agree on that." You may do a tax in advance, but only then you will calculate it on the basis of actual return. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to support the questions raised, among others by Mr Vendrik, about the transit company and the Ter Haar Committee. But I have also asked a question about it, which I would like to hear now. Of course, we welcome the OECD and G20 agreement on a general rate of 15%. I have three questions. The first is: will the Netherlands continue to be a tax port in order to avoid tax until it has been implemented? Secretary of State, what are you going to do in the meantime to prevent that? There are still many loopholes, as says, among other committees, Ter Haar. Two. What rate are we going to anticipate? 15% is well below the European average of 25%. Now we're all going to 15%? But even worse, the European average is 25% including Eastern Europe. The average rate in the Western countries, our competitors, is 30%. Are you prepared, together with the other Western economies in Europe, to go from the current 25% to 30%? Then it's all equal. The Netherlands is now at the forefront of tax competition: 25.8%. It's even 15% for the smaller profits. Then the other countries say: The Netherlands is in place as a tax evader and the Netherlands is in the lead in the rat race of corporation tax. So I am also curious to see what the ex-director of the CPB says and what will be in the coalition agreement. Many thanks to both Secretary of State for their great commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr Crone. Please stand still for a moment, because Mr Essers has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u118	I have followed Mr Crone's speech with great interest. I know a lot of things in it, too, but there's one thing I don't. That is every time it indicates that the Vpb rate cannot be high enough. I don't understand. Surely it is a general economic rule that Mr Crone also knows that any tax is passed on to citizens? So at the moment you're going to raise that Vpb fare, the burden on citizens will only go up through prices. I'm not gonna argue for it, but I'm gonna point out the following. In 1992, we had a Ruding Committee. He also argued for a minimum Vpb rate. This committee said: you must also have a maximum Vpb rate. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u119	First of all, I agree with you that taxation is always avoided or avoided if possible. So raise as much as possible to real estate. You probably support me that we have our own house and so on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u120	No, it's being passed over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u121	Yeah, but some things you can't pass off because they're just stuck on the land. That's why the Vpb is actually a bad tax. But we all think that entrepreneurs should also pay for the facilities they enjoy, from research and development to education and infrastructure? So then it's a simple political choice: how do you divide the burden between capital and labour? Then I think it's very reasonable that you do a fare in the Netherlands, which doesn't lead the rat race, but is at least above the average. We are a rich country and entrepreneurs will want to pay a little more tax, because we have good facilities. That is also what Mr Van Kesteren said during the Financial Reviews. So you're not just looking at the tax rate, you're also looking at whether you have good connections, a good legal system, good employees and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u122	But every time it's a matter of weighing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u124	You have to tax labour and capital as much as you can, but for me it's going too fast to say that you're assuming that the Vpb rate should be raised in advance. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You must also maintain a good position vis-à-vis abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u125	We always had that discussion with Prime Minister Balkenende in the House of Representatives: the tax had to be reduced, the financing deficit had to be reduced and public spending could not be increased. Then I say to you: it's choice. If you want us to invest in the future of our children, in education and climate, and you also want to keep the income distribution a little bit equal, then entrepreneurs should be allowed to pay a little part. And we come from tax rates of 50% of the Vpb, you know that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u126	Finally, Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u127	It's even more abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u128	Mr Essers has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u129	Or we could really come up with a circular tax system, where we say we are going to tax the polluter more. That would be much better, wouldn't it? Then you have to reduce the burden on labor. That is why the BIK was not such a bad idea at all, for that leads to a reduction in the burden on labour. This also gives you room to increase the burden on pollution. But I don't see how the Vpb is necessarily the means of getting us out of this mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u130	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u131	I'm about to trade it for a greening. Last week I heard Boswijk, but also the VVD representative in the agricultural debate. I'm surprised how progressive this cabinet can become.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u132	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. Tonight is the first part of the plenary session of the Tax Plan 2022. This concerns a limited number of legislative proposals. The cabinet has been decommissioned for almost a year now, with the result that there is little new policy. Demissionary status will give rise to little policy-related tax legislation being sent to the Chamber, but the D66 Group is not satisfied. It is a time when important issues call for a solution. I am not talking about corona, but about issues that require less overwhelming attention. However, these are issues that are, in principle, a more important threat to our existence: climate, nitrogen, security and the rule of law, human rights, to name but a few. And we'll talk about living tomorrow. The D66 Group finds it uncomfortable that the outgoing cabinet has made little progress in addressing these issues in the past year. The present legislative proposals also contribute little to solving these problems. That may be understandable, but it is certainly not reassuring for our group. On the environmental and climate-related issues in the current legislative proposals, the D66 Group welcomes the fact that the MIA is being increased. In the written consultation, we asked why these percentages were not even higher. After all, a further increase might be even more beneficial for the environment and climate. The Secretary of State replied to this question with the explanation that the higher percentages proposed now have more effect than the standards currently in force. We understand that, but the question is why there isn't another scoop on top. Frankly, our group feels that the fiscal measures for the coming year to encourage entrepreneurs and citizens to conduct climate-friendly behaviour, in any way, are rather restrictive. There is not a day to lose in trying to meet climate goals. The Netherlands is not at the forefront of this. I would like the Secretary of State to consider the under-ambitious and fluctuating fiscal environmental and climate policies. In this context, the D66 Group also wonders why a reduction in tax benefits for emission-free cars is being considered in the coming years. In general, it can be said that stimulating climate-friendly behaviour can be done through fiscal constructions. But this can also be enforced through other than tax legislation. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the phasing-out of the proposed tax incentives for emissions-free vehicles is accompanied by non-fiscal legislation to achieve the climate targets for mobility? As long as the target CO2 reduction has not been achieved, it will have to be directed to the left or to the right. So how does the cabinet reconcile the high priority that climate has with this bill? As a consequence, our group has a question concerning the decision taken at the recent climate summit in Glasgow to stop investing in fossil energy projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u134	I heard Mr van der Voort say that emissions-free cars should be encouraged to meet the climate targets. I explained later that emissions-free cars do not bring the climate target any closer. Or does he disagree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u135	In achieving the climate objectives, mobility is one of the elements that should contribute. This will also have to reduce CO emissions on the left or right. There is a whole package of measures for this. The promotion of electric driving is also part of this. I have heard very well what Mr Van Strien has said about this, but we believe that it is also possible to make a contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u136	This costs billions of unpaid taxes on emission-free cars. If you think CO is so important, it doesn't give you a gram less CO emissions. Of course, this can be part of a total package, but if it doesn't deliver at all, it costs so much money and if in fact so much money is shifted to lower incomes, then it is a very bad measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u137	There are two things to note. Firstly, the electricity generated by coal and gas, according to Mr Van Strien, will eventually be produced in clean ways. In addition, there is a direct environmental impact. I work in Groningen. There all the buses are electric. It is really nice to walk around in a city where no exhaust gases come from the buses. In addition to the climate effect, there is therefore also an environmental impact in the case of emissions-free vehicles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u138	Finally, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u139	That's displacement. That coal power plant is undoubtedly not in the city of Groningen. I know exactly where it is, but it's a long way from here. This has no effect on the total.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u140	I think we are fundamentally different on this issue. That will not be resolved in this debate. My question about the Glasgow climate summit is whether we understand correctly that stopping investment in fossil energy projects concerns a quarter of the state guarantees for export credits. There is much more to be said about this, but I would like to confine myself to the question of taxation: is there any need for additional tax legislation to stop investment in fossil energy projects? Can the Secretary of State anticipate that? Mr. Chairman. Another point of concern to the D66 Group is the situation of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u141	In Glasgow, the Dutch government was invited and challenged by the initiative of the English to indeed close the eksv for foreign fossil projects. There was another initiative, from Denmark and Costa Rico. I briefly mentioned that in my contribution. That meant that we actually have to stop new fossil projects. We can also do something about this in the Netherlands, for example by ending new allocations of fiscal fossil subsidies used in this type of project from now on. Is it possible to poke the D66 fraction for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u142	I think that Mr Vendrik and I both want to reach the climate targets as soon as possible, and preferably much sooner than is intended. My group will be in favour of everything that can be used for this purpose. It must of course be weighed up, and we are eagerly looking forward to the coalition agreement that is now coming. We very much hope that there will be all kinds of measures to meet this wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u143	We have just heard that the rulers of D66 have given a bit of a fiscal fling here. It should have been better. Then this answer should be better, too. You will even agree with me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u144	I'm neutral. Finally, Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u145	When it comes to CO reduction, in my view it's never enough until the targets are achieved. I hope that will provide the answer Mr Vendrik would like to hear from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u146	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u147	Another point of concern to the D66 Group is the situation of entrepreneurs. A slight increase in corporate tax for profits above €395,000 has been proposed. The 15% rate for the lower profits remains. In addition, there is a limitation of the interest deduction, which is reduced from 30% to 22% in corporation tax. In the reply, the State Secretary indicated that the business environment remained good in the Netherlands despite this. He argues that in international comparisons the position of entrepreneurs is good. Our interpretation is therefore that the Secretary of State thinks it can have a bit of a hit. However, our group would like to stress the need to keep an eye on the tax situation of entrepreneurs. Next: entrepreneurs still experience the consequences of the corona crisis on a daily basis. Several schemes have been in place, and there are still schemes in place to support sectors affected by the crisis. Sometimes there is also a need for reimbursement, as in the case of unduly paid aid. In addition, the payment of tax has been postponed. We are talking about large sums of money here. Our group wonders whether the reimbursement of deferred taxes and the payment of deferred taxes will be carried out in a reasonable manner by the public authorities, taking into account the unique situation of individual entrepreneurs. This certainly also applies tozzp'ers. Can the Secretary of State clarify this? How many billion exactly are we talking about here? Are there any concrete plans for how this will be recovered? With the childcare allowance affair in mind, we would like an explanation and a reassurance from the Secretary of State. Moreover, the Secretary of State himself states in his written replies that a reliable government is important for a good business environment. Does this continue to be the case in this case? Good handling would help to restore public and business confidence in the Tax Administration, which has been affected by the childcare allowance affair and the illegal and discriminatory use of data within it. After all, integrity in this case of the Tax Administration is one of the most important drivers of trust. So is the tax authorities going to recover the deferred tax payment in a fair manner? This immediately linked the child care allowance affair and the recovery operation. On 3 December, Secretary of State Van Huffelen sent a letter on the approach. It is clear that this is a difficult and complex issue. The number of victims reported increased from 9,000 to about 50,000, which makes implementation considerably more difficult. A first careful test was done at about 40,000 of these. Of the 23,000 recognized victims, 21,500 were paid out the promised minimum €30,000. Although much remains to be done, the D66 Group welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State has already achieved a great deal and that she has a good overview of the numbers of both the cases dealt with and the unfinished cases. She's made clear flow charts on the basis of which treatment is taking place. But much more important is the commitment and personal approach that this Secretary of State clearly expresses. The letter of 3 December shows the vision of how the Secretary of State intends to proceed with the implementation. That will not be easy and it will take time, but we support the Secretary of State in her policy. Mr. Chairman. Then withdraw the BIK. We are sorry to say that the D66 Group does not like this process either. The explanatory statement is clear enough for us and we shall do so. However, in retrospect, the question remains whether a probe should not have happened in advance. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether entrepreneurs have been affected or whether they have been communicated with them in good time before they have made investments? What has succeeded in the past cabinet period is the introduction of legislation on combating money laundering and tax evasion. Menno Snel has already successfully taken steps and the current Secretary of State has built on this. Also in the present legislative proposal new steps are being taken in an internationally better functioning system to make unwanted tax constructions less easy. That is what the D66 Group considers to be significant. It's not finished yet, but we're on the right track. Finally, Mr President, the intentions of spreading tax laws over the year. Our group welcomes the movement made by the Secretary of State and encourages the Secretary of State to take further steps in this regard. We look forward to answering our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u148	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u149	In Mr Van der Voort's view, what should the cabinet do with this extended disc Vpb, which all provokes constructions? I just heard a compliment to this Secretary of State for his work the other way. Shouldn't we all argue in favour of saying here to the cabinet: don't do it; come up with a novelle, fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u150	That's an interesting point. I'm very curious to hear the Secretary of State's answers. We'll listen to that very carefully. I think it is too early with my group to take a position on this at this stage. But it is absolutely a point that needs attention and we will therefore look very closely at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u151	Thank you. Mr Ester has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u152	Mr. Chairman. With this Tax Plan 2022, the government hopes to raise around €335 billion to cover a small 95% of the government's spending. Such a large amount requires careful consideration by Parliament, with a keen eye for implementation, impact and simplicity of the proposed fiscal measures. For the Christian Union Group, for my group, the principle of divisive justice must be guiding, with special attention being paid to disadvantaged, vulnerable groups. For groups like the working poor, who can only make ends meet in these uncertain corona times. And with attention to the climate, to creation, in our words. Unfortunately, this debate has to start with the shameful surcharge affair. The image of a merciful government is ruined. In addition, there is the poignant tragedy of the large number of children placed out of the house. Parliament is, and we are, covered by evaluations and progress reports. However, the conclusion that the end of this humiliating affair is still not in sight, despite the unbridled commitment of the responsible Secretary of State and its staff. Let us also emphasise the latter. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group needs a clear answer from the Secretary of State to the question of when the greatest misery will be over. What are the most important bumps that need to be taken? It will not depend on its budget, which has recently been increased by €1.1 billion for further settlement, in addition to the additional €1.3 billion compensation for children and ex-partners. What is the Commission's commitment to achieving this? And what's the policy going to be around the infamous blacklist the Tax Administration used? Mr. Chairman. My group was shocked by the Council of State's strong criticism of the recovery operation. Due to the many and rapid commitments made to those affected, the damage recovery has become so complicated that the Tax Administration will not be able to meet the expectations set. According to the Council, there has been a mess of compensation arrangements which will no longer guarantee the quality of public intervention. How does the Secretary of State weigh this, with all due respect, not malicious criticism? In a self-examination, the Council of State also attracts the fine rug and states that the Council has held on to the strict all-or-nothing line in rulings on childcare allowances for too long. My group is very curious how the Secretary of State assesses this self-reflection. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the Tax Plan itself, a plan which, given the missionary status of the cabinet, is a bit thin. Let me briefly review a number of new measures. The reduction in working time is being reduced more slowly. That's good news for workers. But what effects, as my group asks, does this have on the persistent differences in the tax burden between one and two earners? Does the Tax Plan 2022 even offer tax relief to a earner? The 50 million that the plan mentions makes a rather poor impression. How is this amount going to be used to bridge the gap? What does that even mean for single people? The Christian Union Group hopes that the Commission's report will inspire a new cabinet to take far-reaching fiscal steps. We can support the tax incentives for emission-free passenger cars. This also applies to the reduction of the cap to which the addition discount applies, which is significantly higher than the objectives of the Climate Agreement. But how do we prevent, for example, the Secretary of State, from these cars disappearing abroad via the second-hand market over time? The Netherlands actually subsidises the car market in other, often Eastern European countries. Is it, for environmental reasons, an idea, I ask the Secretary of State, to encourage the use of sub-cars? I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u153	I believe I have heard before today that exports of electric cars would subsidise abroad. I do not understand that, because there is no tax on it; that is true. But that is what we call 'grant', 'no tax', because others now have to pay that tax. It's not like the government will somehow add extra money, so how does it cost money if that car is sold abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u154	I thought I had listened very carefully to you, but apparently I have learned too little from you. The idea was that CO emissions could be included in the relevant, often Eastern European country and not in the country of origin, which is the Netherlands. That was my move. I am very curious to hear the Secretary of State's response to that. I obviously did not use the right words to draw you into my camp, but it is not a question of promoting other Eastern European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u155	I understand now. It's in that environmental-climate hocus pocus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u156	Mr President, I shall continue. The increase in the Environmental Investment Deduction, the MIA, it has already been discussed for a while, and my group can also justify it. But how do we prevent companies that already wanted to invest in innovative and sustainable business resources from taking the extra deduction? The fact that we are achieving the innovative vanguard with this measure seems clear to me, but does it also apply to those who remain behind? According to the Secretary of State, is this a serious problem? And does this also apply, for example, to fiscal consumer measures? The targeted exemption from homework costs for employees is a welcome compensation in these harsh corona times. The question is whether the fixed flat-rate amount of €2 per day is enough, partly because of the screaming inflation rate of around 5%. Is the amount actually indexed at all? The withdrawal of the Job-related Investment Discount can count on the understanding of the ChristianUnion Group. The current BIK scheme was intended as a crisis measure to encourage investment by Dutch companies, but the intended job effects were controversial from the outset. Informal consultation, as we understand, with the European Commission, has taught us that it was not possible to guarantee that the aid in question was lawful. The risk would be high that the BIK scheme would receive the red flag from the Commission. Our group has a few questions about this repeal law. The informal consultation dates back some time ago. Is there now a formal response from the European Commission on the repeal of the law and the reason for it? We understand that the withdrawal takes place retroactively until 1 January 2021. What does that mean for companies that have made use of the BIK scheme and have entered into significant investment commitments? Is any form of compensation provided for? The release amounts to some 2 billion for 2021 and 2022 and is mainly aimed at reducing the AWf employer bonus. Have any alternative uses been considered? What does letting go of the BIK scheme for business investment in our country mean? The Christian Union Group is pleased that, in addition to the energy measures already announced, households are being offered an occasional tax reduction of €430. Our SMEs also share this view, especially after the introduction of the Grinwis and Stoffer motion. This offers some relief for an estimated increase in the energy bill of an average of €900 per household. Prognosis shows that income effects become more negative as household income is lower. My group is concerned about these income effects for vulnerable groups. Does that also apply to the Secretary of State and what consequences does he have? Should we not, I ask him, take a critical look at the current pricing system of gas and electricity? Half of the energy bill is made up of taxes. Do we have the balance between market price and taxation in order? Mr. Chairman. Caribbean Netherlands can expect 2 million additional compensation. What does that mean for households and businesses on the islands? Mr. Chairman. DNB's Knot recently raised the issue again to transfer its own home tax from box 1 to box 3; it was already discussed. That would dampen the towering house prices. The transfer charges the property of homeowners by property ownership, including overvalue, which would eliminate inequality with tenants, who see their full assets taxed in box 3. Opponents point out that the Netherlands already has a private house forfait, that since 2014 deductibility has been increasingly limited and that the proposal leads to substantial redistribution effects and raises implementation problems. A number of these problems have already been discussed today. My group is curious as to how the Secretary of State assesses the advantages and disadvantages of transfer and what conclusions this brings to him. Furthermore, our group welcomes the simplification of the tax transfer process for notaries and citizens. Speaking of box 3, clarifying the annual revision of the rate of return is certainly an improvement. The fact remains that taxpayers rightly perceive it as very unreasonable that the levy is not made on the actual yield but on the basis of fictitious returns. We've been discussing this in this house for years with successive cabinets. Also, this Tax Plan does not go beyond the discounting of a number of macro indicators such as investment indices to which the average taxpayer has little message. What is the position of the Secretary of State in this debate of principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u157	It is interesting that Mr Ester raises box 3 in relation to his own home, because the Christian Union is the only party in her election programme that had to move its own home from box 1 as a box to box 3. Do you still believe that, even in the negotiations? We will know tomorrow, but do you not think it wise to come back to that position? I have made it clear to you earlier that the CDA Group has already done so, even tonight, that its own house should not go to box 3, but should even be defiscalized from box 1. Are you in favour of box 3? Do you agree with Klaas Knot? If so, can you justify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u158	Of course, I am not going to turn my back on my own election programme here; you would not. What I've done is try to outline the pros and cons. I've taken some time for that, too. I simply ask the Secretary of State how he weighs those advantages and disadvantages. There is no doubt that next week more will be known about this matter of transfer from box 1 to box 3. But if you'll allow me, I'll keep my gunpowder a little dry. It does not make much sense to make very tough statements here about a coalition agreement that will be announced at the beginning of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u159	That answer is a little evasive, as we often know Rutte's, by going into the election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u160	I appreciate you comparing me to Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u161	You ask the Secretary of State, but I want to know if you think that your own house should go to box 3. You say we've weighed advantages and disadvantages. In the election programme, the answer was positive. Do you still think so? Then you cannot say: I ask the Secretary of State. I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u162	I've already told you why I'm not going into that right now. For us, however, the question of the distribution effects between the different groups is very important. They're not exactly the same. That is an issue that I would like to draw attention to and have asked for. And yes, in a debate, you are asking the Secretary of State, as an answerer, for a response. I would say: let's see what happens next week and now let's ask the Secretary of State what he thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u163	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u164	You are right to point out the consequences for groups. It will not have escaped you that I indicated in the debate that if this were to happen, the elderly, who have actually paid off their mortgage as a rule, would then be paying the full value of the overvalue of box 3 tax. At a house of five tons, a terraced house, that's already 1%, €5,000. €5,000 that you have to pay without income. Where should people with AOW and a small pension who live in a five-tonne house get $5,000 from? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u165	Finally, Mr. Ester has the floor for the final answer in this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u166	I have explicitly mentioned the point to which you refer when it comes to the elderly. I'm not taking that back either. That is an issue that really needs to be discussed in detail. Those substantial redistribution effects, and moreover the implementation problems associated with them, I make it very difficult to weigh up. But once again, I'm waiting with you for the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u167	Then I suggest that Mr Ester continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u168	My group chairman is certainly not pleased with the Secretary of State's intention, if we have understood correctly, to put the reform of the savings tax back on track. The argument that ICT systems of the Tax Administration cannot cope with the determination of real returns is gradually getting a bit worn out after all these years. Isn't the fair story that the current flat-rate tax system generates some 4 billion in tax revenue? I like to hear it. My group notes that next year the excise duty on tobacco will not be increased. Is this not contrary to the widely shared National Prevention Agreement and the government's desire for a smoke-free generation? I would like to hear an explanation of this. The purchasing power figures show that Mr Crone has already pointed out that income inequality in our country has not been derailed in recent decades. That is good, but the inequalities are mainly on the power side. What has the Cabinet done to curb that wealth inequality? What does this Tax Plan offer for corrective action? Mr. Chairman. I now move on to the international fiscal stage. The Christian Union Group is pleased that the G20 recently endorsed the OECD agreement to introduce a minimum tax of 15% worldwide, regardless of the country where multinationals are located. This should generate public authorities around 150 billion a year. Overall, it is a major reform of the international tax system and an important step forward towards a fairer tax regime. It prevents, at least theoretically, a fiscal race to the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u169	Just now Mr Ester asked questions to the Secretary of State about wealth inequality: what has this cabinet done recently about this great wealth inequality in the Netherlands and what do we think of it in the Tax Plan? Just for the record, I assume those were rhetorical questions on the part of the Christian Union group, because the answer is clear, isn't it? We've been there for the past four years, what this government has done. Mr Ester's party has itself been a part of this and has so far been part of this coalition. We know what they've done about it, don't we? That's nothing. Or is Mr Ester thinking of certain measures that I have just missed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u170	I don't think you've missed much. My question is partly rhetorical, I would like to give it to you. At the same time, I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he feels the same and whether we have done enough in the last period to tackle, in particular, the lack of capacity. Because I think that is the issue before us at the moment. I can reflect on this very comprehensively myself, but at this stage I am curious to see what the Secretary of State himself thinks about it, what has happened over the last four years and whether the balance sheet is positive or negative as far as he is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u171	I am curious with Mr Ester to hear the answers of the Secretary of State to those partly rhetorical questions, but I am also tasting a little from his words that his conclusion is that the balance is negative, that there is not enough done and that more needs to be done. What measures does the Christian Union Group intend to take in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u172	I'm gonna leave that for now. I'm not going into that. I am particularly interested in the answers of the Secretary of State at this stage. You can taste from my words, you put it very well that I think we might have been able to take a few more steps. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u173	Then I suggest you continue your argument. Oh, Mr. Van Apeldoorn has a small question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u174	Yeah, finally. I am then, once again, curious to hear the answers of the Secretary of State. I am also curious about the coalition agreement to which Mr Ester has referred a few times. I don't think that's gonna happen next week, but tomorrow. It will not be in this Chamber, but I wonder what the Christian Union group thinks about that. Is there enough in it to finally tackle this great wealth inequality in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u175	Thank you. Then continue your argument, Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u176	Of course, I'm not going to tell you. You will understand and appreciate that. By the way, I mean "this week" and not "next week." Mr President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u177	I'd love to. At least time is running.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u178	I'm going to the international stage now. I mentioned the minimum profit tax of 15%. At the same time, we must ensure that this new minimum profit tax becomes a new ceiling in practice. Does the Secretary of State share these concerns? We are also curious about the follow-up steps to implement the agreement. The Financieele Dagblad recently reported that tax offices on a large scale advise companies to split up into multiple companies in order to fall under the boarding rate and thereby avoid profit tax. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. We will support the EU's second ATAD proposal. Tax avoidance remains an extremely bad phenomenon. It affects the integrity of our economy and the rule of law, and harms developing countries. I would like to know how the Secretary of State currently sees and assesses tax avoidance in our country. How do we get into the left row to speak in football terms? Moreover, there will be a whole package of directives from the European Commission over 5,000 pages to combat money laundering. We are going to talk about this separately, but I am curious about the relationship with the legislative proposal before us. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a pressing question about the relationship between taxation and ethics. I refer to the discussion recently initiated by two young Leiden professors of tax law. They point out that the moral compass of fiscalists does not always point north, as the Pandora Papers have made clear. They argue that tax advisors are constantly looking for loopholes in tax legislation to help their clients gain tax advantages through financial engineering and often aggressive constructions. In this way, the locks to tax avoidance are opened. More than half of professors in tax law appear to have a secondary job in the commercial tax advisory sector. The ChristianUnion Group asks the Secretary of State about the self-cleaning capacity and ethical awareness of the tax advisory sector and whether a tightening of standards on socially responsible tax advice is needed. I ask the Secretary of State: should we not go to a form of a code of conduct for the sector, as is also the case for the banking sector, so a kind of oath for tax advisers? I'm very curious. I hope the Secretary of State can promise this. Mr. Chairman. I am at the end of my speech. I look forward to the two Secretary of State answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I'll allow for a few more brief interruptions. Go ahead, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u180	Mr Ester's last words on the profession of tax advisers were taken from my heart. He puts that more beautifully than I did, so compliments for that. His questions to the Secretary of State are also mine. My question is about tax avoidance. Mr Ester rightly made a major point of undermining the integrity of the economy. There is one small case of tax avoidance that we can take care of today. That's the extended first disc Vpb. I look at the Secretary of State and I see a very doubting person sitting there. Shall we redeem him by asking him to come up with a novelle this week to bring that extended first disc back to the old state, so that for that source of tax avoidance we wrote about it just now by Mr.Ester and that is right, I think, sticking a stick?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u181	I need to think very deeply about that. I'm not gonna promise you that we're just gonna go along in a novelle. I'm going to listen very carefully to what the Secretary of State is going to say about your legitimate questions. After that, we'll be happy to determine our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u182	Now that Mr Ester has come to the end of his speech, I would like to return to a point he made somewhere in the middle of his speech. At that time I also wanted to come to the interrupting microphone, but I thought Mr Ester might have a little more to say about that. At that time, however, he already moved on to the next point. My question is about the high energy bill. In my view, Mr Ester asked questions about energy taxes and asked whether the balance between energy market prices and post-tax prices is still a good one. Perhaps that was partly another rhetorical question from Mr Ester. My question now is whether Mr Ester might be able to concrete something behind that question. Does Mr Ester agree with my group that there is a certain basic need for energy, that it can actually provide for it as a basic right, that it should therefore be affordable and that the energy tax should be partly reduced, whereas it could go up for other groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u183	You can see I like rhetorical questions. You understand very well the background to this. I think that energy prices are a very serious problem, especially for vulnerable groups. We really need to do something about that. The government is also doing what it needs to do, but it strikes me in the relationship between the market price and the tax on it that the latter is very strong. We're talking about an order of magnitude of 50%. That's a big deal. I can also imagine that if you want to do something for certain groups, you're going to take a very critical look at that relationship. I also made that point in the General Financial Reviews, but the Minister moved on to the debate today and tomorrow. I am therefore, like you, very interested in what the Secretary of State has to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u184	I agree with that. I'm very curious about that, too. To make it even more concrete: the tax on natural gas has doubled over the last seven years. Households pay 30 times as much for natural gas as companies. That's where you see the crookedness. You could actually do something about that, try to reduce the energy bill for households.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u185	We should look at that very seriously. I remember that you asked me that question on an earlier occasion, so I will give you the same answer, so as not to get out of line with myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u186	It's nice that we can find each other there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u187	I would like to reassure Mr Ester that there is a great deal of attention in tax education in the Netherlands to fiscal ethics, and that has been going on for quite a long time. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, a kind of governance code has been agreed; how do you deal with tax law in a good, ethical way. I also know Mr Ester as a nuanced man and generalities are always dangerous. We often talk about part-time professors. I know that a lot of them are working incredibly hard to assist their students, and so they are doing a lot more than they should be expected to do on the basis of their appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u188	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u189	My question is whether Mr Ester is prepared to take that nuance with the generalities that are often expressed in relation to the profession of tax advisor, the profession of scientist who also has another appointment. We do not do justice to those people and therefore do not justice to the real inaccuracies that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u190	I am pleased that Mr Essers is standing up for his profession. I've been working for years as a professor at the same university you're still attached to. I have also seen that ethics plays a major role in this, but at this stage I am concerned about the fact that a number of professors from your own profession have spoken and have said that the role of ethics can be strengthened somewhat; not for the good tax advisers, which you are undoubtedly one of, that is not the problem. The point is that these people have said that they feel that they are not doing well on that aspect as a profession and that they would like to go a few steps further. I did not want to do more than take that into account in my speech and ask whether the Secretary of State sees anything in an oath for the sector, with the disciplinary law that goes with it. Don't get me wrong. I don't want the good guys to suffer the bad guys. That is absolutely not my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u191	I'm pleased to hear that. I'd like to agree with you. The discussion got a bit out of hand because all focus was placed on those part-timers who have a double hat, without indicating exactly what the problem is and where exactly it is. This puts an entire profession of part-time professors in the corner. I'm pleased with the nuance you put in yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u192	Thank you. Then I'll suspend for a few minutes for a short break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u193	I call Mr Frentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u194	Mr President, thank you for the performance after the break. This is the third time that I have been allowed to take part in the debate on the Tax Plan on behalf of the Forum for Democracy in December. In those three years, a great deal has happened to our group. But not with the Dutch tax system, although everyone agrees that the tax system urgently needs a recovery. Mr. Vendrik I heard quoting "rot like a foul" and Mr. Essers of the CDA actually said the same in more polite terms. From 2010 to 2017, the Tax Administration was controlled by VVD politicians and reorganised by them, and that did not go well. But the perpetrators are in the cemetery, because handy politicians find a "function elsewhere" in time. And for senior officials, the General Administrative Service's carousel goes on undisturbed. In 2017, D66 took over and found a total mess. In December 2019, then Secretary of State Menno Snel told this Chamber that the Tax Administration was broken in terms of people and systems. The Tax Administration could no longer cope with changes or new tasks, and he could not present a serious tax plan at the end of 2019. In 2020, these two new Secretary of State started cleaning: the official summit was cleared, the Secretary of State reported against its own officials. On 18 May a thick note was presented with building blocks for a new policy, but it was already said that the government would do nothing with it; that was for the successor. And it is in December 2020, a year ago, that this Chamber again dealt with a tax plan that couldn't really bear that name; that was just a piece of plasterwork. And now we are another year away, and there are some ideas to change the functioning of the General Administration. Maybe that will give us better functioning top officials, but there is still no real tax plan in front of us; again we have some plaster work ahead of us. In the words of Mr Essers of the CDA: keeping padding and wet. Mr. Chairman. Doing nothing is also mismanagement. The Dutch tax system is broken. It's ridiculously complicated, to start with. The Court of Auditors said in May of this year that the government must cut back on the proliferation of tax regimes introduced over the last 20 years. The Court of Auditors included 116 deductions, exemptions and refunds. Total: €111 billion last year. I don't think anything's happened to that yet. The marginal pressure, that is actually the biggest problem, and he has been raised here before, even by Mr Crone. This marginal pressure means that more than 80% of every extra euro earned does not go to the hard-working Dutchman, but to the treasury. It should not be, it should not be, but whether or not something is happening is hidden in the lap of coalition negotiations. Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said about the premium affair. Now is not the time to add more. Now is the time to point out the other side of tax policy. Because, as we know, there is a huge tax gap in the Netherlands. More than half of the taxes, of the proceeds, are levied by only 20% of the most earning Dutch. Their shoulders carry the burdens, yes. The public attention of politics goes only to the vulnerable, but this parliament should stand up for all Dutch. In this connection, like the last three years, I refer once again to the injustice caused in Box 3 by the term 'power efficiency levy'. This has also been the subject of previous speakers. Many pension funds have been earning too little to index over the past ten years, but this Secretary of State and all his predecessors wanted to collect the same tax on the return on capital every year, even though interest rates fell. The relationship between real and legally flat-rate returns became ever shaver. Thus, as in 2017, the government went wild with the introduction of the stable return base in proportion to the size of the investment portfolio. Everyone sees the injustice of these fictions, but the Secretary of State makes himself purely formal-legal and forces citizens to go to court for years. I believe that even Mr Ester of the Christian Union had a problem with it recently said that this standard method is contrary to basic human rights. But instead of being civilised, the Secretary of State says: yes, I want to wait for the verdict. Just as the government has been waiting three years for the revision of the tax system. I heard that Mrs Prast is considering tabling a motion that might speed it up. I'm very curious about what's going to happen. This Chamber goes out all night and all day tomorrow, for the third time in a row, for the treatment of a tax plan that is not supposed to bear the name "Taxation Plan." The Group of the Forum for Democracy therefore does not really have any further questions to ask the Secretary of State and only wishes to join Mr Ester, who very politely asked about the Tax Office: is it going to be okay and, if so, when? And for the rest, we must wait for a new cabinet, without too much hope, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mrs Geerdink has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u196	Excuse me, Mr President, because I had a little too long a coffee break, but the advantage is that at least now some more people are in the Chamber. At the border of a new period of government, there is an agreement, I read just now that we are dealing today and tomorrow with a tax package with six legislative proposals, two collective laws, a second part of an implementation of a European directive, a repeal of a legislative proposal, a bill that reduces abuse and the reduction of the landlord levy. A little bit of everything. Many technical legislative proposals which have already been dealt with extensively in the written input. The remaining questions will be raised in this plenary contribution. The main lines are: the implementing power of the Tax Administration, the increase in administrative burdens, the impact of the measures on the capacity of taxpayers and the effects of the measures on the Dutch locational environment. First of all, the executive power of the Tax Administration. As you know, the Tax Administration makes an execution test for every measure. This year, these implementation keys contain many red and yellow flags that warn about the impact of the measures. The yellow and red flags are partly caused by complex measures and partly by ICT problems causing delays in implementation. This year, the implementation test for the measure temporal limitation offsets corporate tax charges that the scheme is enforceable, provided that it is accepted that the uncertainty bandwidth is at the expense of timely and reliable implementation and that a reprioritisation is necessary, leading to the displacement of modernisation and innovation in the information provision portfolio. Last year, when determining the changes to the loss relief in corporation tax, the implementation test of that bill showed a positive implementation test with the remark: provided that it is accepted that this measure will initially lead to a significant limitation in the possibilities for legislation with automation implications within the domain of corporation tax and dividend tax in the coming years. This year's bill will also have a red flag and two yellow flags, in which the Tax Administration considers that the bill is legally complex and that there are potentially hundreds of transactions to be assessed manually by the Tax Administration. Add to this the tendency that European directives with an impact on our tax system have been repeatedly submitted to both chambers with steam and boiling water at the very last moment over the past year, and then the question is justified: can the Tax Administration still handle new legislation? Can't it be timed? Is the Tax Administration sufficiently placed in a position to prioritise new legislation? What does the reduced implementing power mean for the change power of the Tax Administration? What does this do with the internal corporate culture of the Tax Administration? Can the tax authorities still handle the electricity directives from the EU? And what about the OECD proposals that will recover in the coming years? The VVD Group is curious about the answers of the Secretary of State to these questions. Legislation causes implementation costs for the Tax Administration, but also administrative burdens for business. This year, the administrative burden increases, for example, with the scheme of targeted exemption for homework costs, combined with the anti-coherence provision for the targeted exemption for travel allowance for commuting. On top of that, there is the change that will also take effect from 1 January 2022, which means that employers can only count the actual travel days for the unpaid travel allowance. Do you still understand? For employers, this means that they have to make new agreements with all employees, which then have to be processed administratively. For large companies this is a job, but for SMEs it is a relatively much larger job, in corona time, with all the associated uncertainties: travel costs, working time, homework, etc. My question to the Secretary of State is to take a closer look at this. How is the Tax Administration going to help entrepreneurs process this in time? Is there any corona time that the Tax Administration will assess with some coulance? And what method is actually used to measure and determine the administrative burden, we ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u197	I hear Mrs Geerdink mention here a number of examples of making our tax system more complex again, and I hear her expressing her displeasure about that. My question is whether she, or the VVD Group, believes that our tax system has become simpler or more complex over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u198	That is a very simple answer: it has become much more complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u199	You are a large group, in both the Lower House and the Upper House. In those ten years, you have also been a leader in Cabinets. If it has become more complex, what possibilities do you see to break through this? Apparently, it has not worked in the ten years that your party and your group have been in power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u200	Complexity Mr Essers was already quite clear about this because with very good reasons and with very good intentions exceptions to exceptions are being devised, or because there is corona time and homework something new is being devised. It's often with good intentions. Only, if at some point no point is placed on the horizon, as Mr Essers called it, and it is not even given the same thought. It is therefore very important on all sides, not only for entrepreneurs, but also for the Tax Administration, to ensure that legislation is as complex as possible. In addition to this Tax Plan, we have drawn attention to this in the previous tax plans. So I'm assuming it's not us. It is something that we continue to draw attention to, just as long as it may be slightly less complex at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u201	Mr Van der Linden, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u202	I can follow the problem analysis. We've been analysing this here for years. But the solution I hear from you here is: we keep asking questions. That should fix it. But how are we going to achieve it? That's the main question, isn't it? How are we going to make it really simpler, simpler and better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u203	We are in the role of reviewing legislation on feasibility, enforcement and legality. That's what we're doing here. So we are looking at the implementation and we are saying what we think about it. Making the real simplification really has to be done by the government through other legislative proposals or by the possibility of legislative proposals going off or by looking at legislative proposals in this way in the House of Representatives. I can make that call here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u204	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u205	We're in the process of strengthening our capacity to act. We went from implementation costs to administrative burdens, to strengthening the capacity of taxpayers. Last year and the years before, we discussed in detail in the First Chamber the desire of the Chamber to strengthen the capacity of taxpayers. This resulted in literally one A4 in the explanatory memorandum to the Tax Plan bill 2022. I've been looking for it explicitly. The reply shows that the capacity was not assessed, in so far as the capacity of large companies was concerned, if people were not asked to take action or if technical legislative and regulatory adjustments were not made. My group's question is: what are technical adjustments in this context? Is the adaptation of the home scheme in partnership situations and in the event of death a predominantly technical or predominantly policy adjustment? This scheme has been assessed and is then characterised as relatively manageable. What does such a judgment say? The central question is: what consequences does the government attach to the do-it-yourself test? The Act counteracts mismatches in the application of the arm's length principle not only applies to large companies. Is it likely that this will not have been assessed because people are not being asked to take action? However, the Tax Administration takes structural 8 fte extra in service for the execution. Secretary of State, how would a test on the fitness of companies for this bill be retroactive, without respectful effect? This brings me to the Dutch tax settlement climate. In recent years, with unbridled energy and with success, anti-tax avoidance has been used. In fact, we are committed to combating tax avoidance. However, announced tariff reductions have not been implemented. At the same time, many basic measures have been implemented and this exercise does not seem to be over. Measures designed to provoke investment and innovation, such as the IGG, are withdrawn. As a result, the reliability of the government has decreased further. This has already been addressed during the General Financial Reviews. It's not over yet. The list of burdens still to be imposed, the Ter Haar list, has not yet been fully transposed into legislation. There are still measures to be taken. Other groups also spoke about this. In addition, EU and OECD proposals on taxing digital services that stimulate greening or introduce a global minimum profit tax. Mr. Chairman. Not only does the Tax Administration require rest and time to keep pace with the changes, but the Dutch business community also demands this. We now have an effective corporate tax burden of 23.7%. We are thus 23rd on the EU ranking in 2020. We're not tax haven. In fact, the downside of the medal of high effective corporation tax and the dividend tax burden is that on the one hand we are seeing companies go and on the other we are doing everything we can to ensure that the tax burden is as low as possible. There is only one rule that must be borne in mind: the tax burden must have a neutral basis in the Netherlands; Mr Essers has already mentioned this and does not lead to a tax flight from companies abroad. The investigation resulting from the motion to the Tax Plan 2021 into possibilities for legal form-neutral taxation provides good guidance for a forthcoming government period, which is imminent. The VVD Group is curious about the results, but we believe that the Secretary of State will not be making any statements about them at the moment. We'd be surprised. The VVD Group, which will not surprise you, was concerned about the proposed legislation on excessive lending, which has fortunately been detained and will be reviewed by the new government. Addressing excess borrowing is, as Mr Ester said, a symptom reduction. The real cause lies in the non-neutral and non-balanced tax system that has emerged in recent years. We hope for a successful outcome and wait for what is to come. Mr. Chairman. How does the government ensure that a build-up of measures does not lead to a fiscal environment in which real companies no longer feel welcome in the Netherlands? Or rather, how does the government ensure that real companies feel welcome in the Netherlands? Preferably real, green companies. Are we going to continue to encourage entrepreneurs, or are we going to punish them with tax measures? What effect does the government intend to have on the Dutch locational environment and the investment climate? How much do we attach to our tax sovereignty? The VVD Group is looking forward to the government's reflection on this. Now I'm gonna wait before I go to the next block, because there's gonna be a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u206	Does Mrs. Geerdink mind avoiding taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u207	Yes, Mrs. Geerdink does. I am pleased that you are asking this question, because I have thought a number of times this evening: what does the Chamber mean by tax avoidance? As far as I am concerned, if tax measures are used to minimise taxes, this is not necessarily tax avoidance. Tax avoidance is that you consciously and beyond the limits of the law pay too little tax. At the time when the law is as it is and has been accepted by the House of Representatives, entrepreneurs can assume that it is the law that is intended and within which it may be acted. That goes for all of us, the way we are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u208	I hear Mrs Geerdink say "out of the law." I think we're talking about evasion. That's illegal. We're all against that, I hope. That is not what this debate is about. My question is about legal forms of evasion, if you like; it is about tax avoidance. That is the use of constructions to pay as little tax as possible. The cabinet has taken various actions. Two legislative proposals are on the table, in which forms of tax avoidance are considered undesirable. I can't hear Mrs Geerdink say that. I do not hear Mrs Geerdink say that she agrees with the cabinet on this point, namely that the tax system is not intended for this purpose, that it is at the expense of tax morals and that companies can be expected to share fairly in the financing of the public sector. Is it so hard for the VVD to say that or do I just listen badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u209	I don't think you're listening very well. We are really against taking advantage and avoiding taxes. I fully agree with you that companies must also pay a fair share. There is absolutely no difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u210	So it makes sense to say goodbye to that old tax policy. This facilitated all kinds of tax avoidance. We did that as the Netherlands and not as economical, because we are in the top three of the world. So it makes sense to move towards a tax policy in which we no longer do so, but with which we focus on a fair share of business here and elsewhere in financing the public business. If we avoid tax that gets in the way, we have a job there. Does Mrs Geerdink agree with this explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u211	Mrs Geerdink fully agrees with that. Mrs Geerdink also hopes that the additional tax revenues will not be used to increase taxes, but to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u212	Let's get back to the locational climate. Mrs Geerdink of the VVD talks about the tax location climate. However, many things play a role in the location climate. Tax is one aspect of it, but, I think, is not always decisive. Of course, it is also mainly about economic dynamism, the presence of talent, how quickly you can develop something, and whether there is not too much bureaucracy. I'm gonna put that all out of the way. For example, an attractive scheme for share option plans is very important for the business environment of start-ups, which you are so keen on and so am I. The Netherlands has become less competitive in this respect, because there is a lot to pay upfront. As a result, all kinds of scale-ups opt for other countries. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u213	In my opinion, the stock options regime is now in place. The main thing is that you might think about when stimulating start-ups and scale-ups. We would like these companies to feel welcome and continue to feel welcome in the Netherlands. So I don't quite understand what you're after. I think we share this intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u214	Do you believe that the current regime is attractive enough to attract these companies to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u215	I believe that this is not only dependent on the Dutch tax system. I think that has to do with how we compete with other countries. At the moment we have a number of facilities that see that. I hope they don't disappear. I am thinking of Innovation Box and all kinds of things that are specific to stimulating innovation. In that context: you know that we were in favour of the BIK. Something like that, but more focused on greening, could be a good instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u216	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u217	That is not entirely clear, but I believe that we agree that it is important to stimulate economic dynamism, to attract this talent, and that this should also be an objective in fiscal policy, especially for this type of fast-growing companies. Good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u218	You will continue your speech, Mrs Geerdink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u219	Of course, there are many tax issues that are not reflected in the tax plan package 2022. The reform of box 3, which we have already talked about, the supplement system that has to be designed differently and the measures that come out of the Borstlap report, to name just a few: they need urgent attention, as do the ever-expanding complexity of the tax system. We have already drawn attention to this in previous tax plans. Finally, I would like to talk about the double-hat discussion of tax advisers, which is so prominent in the media, because it affects the treatment of tax proposals. In almost all discussions, there is a good reason why they are being conducted. Here is one of the reasons why this discussion has been going on for too long, without any visible action being taken by the profession itself. They are not taken by the organisations where the other hat is worn, or by the legislator, who could play a decisive role in this. Would it be an idea, Secretary of State, to take the example of the English Chartered Institute of Taxation as an example of neutralising the quality of tax professionals? In this way, the power of fiscalists can increase without questioning neutrality. Collaboration of fiscalists in different roles is not necessarily wrong. It can also be used for good, provided that the roles are performed separately and that it is clear to the outside world what interests are served. We are curious about the role the Secretary of State has assigned to himself in this regard. Are you going to intervene, or are you going to leave it to the sector? Mr. Chairman. There are two Secretary of State present today. With regard to the deferred treatment of the Supplementary Legislation in spring, the questions raised by the VVD Group were mainly addressed to the Secretary of State who manages the tax portfolio on behalf of the government. We are asking for an understanding of this. We look forward with great interest to the reflections and answers to the questions that have been asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u220	Thank you, Mrs Geerdink. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u221	Thank you to Mrs Geerdink for her speech, in which business, companies and I know what is at stake. I was just looking into this lovely blue book about government revenue. It says what's really coming out of business from that 334 billion. That's about 50 billion. The rest comes from ordinary people. Could Mrs Geerdink say anything about that? A few examples have been mentioned, among others by Mr Van Rooijen, about the elderly who have been somewhat misplaced. Mr Ester has also mentioned some examples. The marginal pressure has already been discussed a few times. What is the VVD's vision of that situation for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u222	To establish the link between these people and the business community: we hope that as many people as possible work at these companies. That's the first link there is. If you are talking about balance in tax burden, you hope that you will tax labour as little as possible and that there will be as much transition towards taxing raw materials as possible, because it will also set the climate movement in motion or at least strengthen it. In doing so, you also hope that corporate tax will remain as low as possible, so that companies can innovate and hire employees. That's the picture in general. As far as we are concerned, the proposals contained in the tax plans are balanced. So we can agree with that. That's why we didn't zoom in on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u223	I very much agree with Mrs Geerdink that it is very nice that all these companies are there, because it allows people to make money. Then Mrs Geerdink says: because they are there, we can do corporate tax and the like down. But I asked about the marginal pressure. Imagine if someone is going to make $1,000 more. It's already been mentioned once today, and he's going to have to turn in over $700 to tax. It would be so nice if the VVD had a keen view on such a subject, because that could greatly help the Secretary of State or our new cabinet in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u224	We prefer to have the largest possible employment rate. This means that we prefer to keep the marginal pressure on labour as low as possible to help as many people as possible to work. That is actually the general view behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u225	I think that is a good vision: let it be as low as possible. Does Mrs Geerdink therefore agree with me that the same should apply to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u226	Finally, Mrs Geerdink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u227	I think we prefer those who actually contribute in the form of labour. We are primarily in favour of keeping the marginal pressure as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u228	I can comment on Mrs Geerdink's last sentence, on the people who contribute to the economy through work. But do you also recognise that the elderly, who have worked for 40 years and built the Netherlands together, have contributed? By the way, they also contribute in a different way, for example as a volunteer. Or like a grandmother and grandmother looking after the grandchildren; I also have seven. When the elderly no longer look after the grandchildren, the Netherlands just lies flat. Do you not think that the elderly should also share in taxes fairly and that the VVD should stand up for that too? My real question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u229	Oh, I heard a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u230	No, that was the first question and it is clear. On the second question we have had a discussion with the Christian Union before: box 3. What does the VVD think of Klaas Knot's plan, which is not about that, but it does have an influence, as regards moving his own home from box 1 to box 3? We also think, with others, that the CDA that is in the coalition, which is interesting, moreover, that it should be totally defiscalized.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u231	That was getting two, paying one. Two short answers together is one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u232	I'm trying, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with question two about my own house. I think our election program says that it should just stay in box 1. So I can be quite clear about that. I do not know what has emerged from the negotiations, but that is the clear answer to this question on the basis of our electoral programme. The second question was about the elderly. Older people form, as for you, a very large group to which we owe our Netherlands. So yes, I totally agree that they have paid a lot of taxes throughout their lives. But I believe that our pension system is also geared towards this: deduction of pension contributions and tax on what is paid. So I think there is a good balance there at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u233	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u234	But do you agree with the CDA and with 50PLUS that it is actually even more sensible to take your own home out of the tax frameworks, a great simplification for the Tax Administration, a huge simplification? So get your own house out of box 1 and defiscalize it, how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u235	Let me put it this way: I don't feel that much. I think that is wise: own house as a capital stock and where there is income from it... Look, we now have the system of own-house credit and the deduction of mortgage interest. That'll do for us. Of course, I do not know what is coming out of these negotiations, but at the moment I am sticking to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u236	Thank you. Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u237	Mr. Chairman. The Tax Plan 2022, on the verge of the birth of a new cabinet. I am not a soothsayer, but I dare to predict that the value of this debate will be limited in time, as there will be a new coalition agreement tomorrow, in which some of the issues discussed today will undoubtedly change direction. However, I would like to congratulate colleagues on their very interesting contributions and also on the questions that have been asked. This applies in particular to the questions raised by the 50PLUS Group on the indexation of pensions. Intimately know that I have started a petition in relation to the one-off compensation of missed indexation over the past thirteen years. That's about 40 billion. I noticed something about this later in an interruption. The number of intimates grows by the day, because the petition is still ongoing. Mr. Chairman. I heard in the contribution of the Labour Party in particular something about the possible imposition of a tax on super rich people. I can imagine. The figures that have been mentioned are certainly substantially different from those in the past, and you should think about that. As far as the proceeds are concerned, I would like to propose that, if this ever happens, it should reach the municipalities and the provinces. You know that the OSF is trying to represent these two decentralised authorities in particular here in this house. This also means that my contribution may not be mainly about the Tax Plan as such, but about what is not in it, but what is very important for municipalities and provinces. We are also calling for attention to be paid to a problem which has not been addressed for more than ten years and which we have always had the impression could also be reflected in a tax plan. There are a number of municipalities in the Netherlands with large industrial complexes and with large industries, and they are unable to achieve a differentiation in the ICI rates. This has major consequences for SMEs in these municipalities. This is not a theme that has arisen in recent years; it has been discussed for years. But that problem is getting more and more manifest, especially now that we are talking about the current corona crisis. SMEs are affected by the fact that large industries are subject to a high ICI tariff in these municipalities. This also has to do with the depreciation methods of such companies. Local authorities are actually obliged to set higher ICI rates, and once again, SMEs will suffer. The specific question is why there is once again no solution to this problem in this Tax Plan. I call on you, the representatives of the cabinet, although it is outgoing, but on behalf of the new government, I hope that you can already commit yourself to putting people on the path of the Tax Plan 2023 in order to find a solution in due course. Mr. Chairman. A second problem facing municipalities increasingly is that they suffer quite a bit from the no-cure-no-pay companies that submit huge numbers of objections to the WPA value every year. In the meantime, this amounts to a total of 26 million for all municipalities in the Netherlands. This is a debatable earning model for those types of companies, especially at a time when the judiciary is trying to limit the value of the housing valuations to a maximum of €1,000 difference. We know that housing values rise tremendously every month and that it is simply impossible for municipalities to make a proper assessment. This means that all these no-cure-no-pay companies are always put in the right place, with on the other hand costs for the taxpayer. I call on the cabinet representatives to pay attention to this. I would also like a commitment to find a solution for the municipalities, for example in the compensation of the 26 million already mentioned, which the municipalities now have annual costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u238	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I call Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group. In the meantime, I would like to remind Members that if you cannot keep a distance of 1.5 metres, the advice remains to wear a mask, also because of the role of example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u239	Mr. Chairman. In our contribution to the tax plans, I would like to talk about three things: the past, when we were still striving together for a small government, the present, our present, complex tax system that has already been mentioned, and the future, how it can and should be different. The past: the small government. The pursuit of a small government with as little public spending as possible seems to be a relic of past times, a kind of old normal. A small government is even viewed by the Mark Rutte party with argus eyes. Fear dreams of an abominable nineteenth-century night watchman's state appear, but a small government is not such an old ideal at all and was a few decades ago little controversial. Wasn't it Father Drees who ended up breaking up with the Labour Party because the state grew too much among the Social Democrats in his opinion? The new normal, the new mainstream, is a large, expanding government. The government has been the largest employer of the Netherlands for a long time, while it is not the government that provides prosperity, but business. In particular, SMEs are essential for the employment and vitality of the Dutch economy. It is precisely SMEs that are not made easy. A surplus of rules, complainants, process supervisors, compliance officers and risk managers are increasingly cutting back on SMEs, while a small government, low public spending and limited bureaucracy are the preconditions for imposing sustainable, simple and equitable taxes on citizens and businesses. We call for the efforts to free a small government from the history books and to use them as a starting point for policy in the present. Then the present: our tax system, the basis of today's laws. Our tax system is hopelessly old-fashioned and unnecessarily complex on a number of parts. On behalf of the politicians, the Tax Administration is pumping tens of billions of dollars in taxes, levies, deductions and surcharges each year. That pumping leads to huge bureaucracy and implementation problems. It costs a lot of energy and money, and it puts human suffering in control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u240	I hear Mr Van der Linden making a whole speech for a smaller government. A very simple question: how? How are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u241	We could delete it in the number of ministries. We could delete the number of supplements. We could delete the huge cost of the energy transition and the climate objectives. We could delete expenditure on immigration. We could delete it in the huge government apparatus in Brussels, to which we are making a contribution. There are a number of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u242	Yes, but that huge government apparatus in Brussels is not that big at all, compared to the Dutch government apparatus. Do you want to fire people, too? How am I supposed to see that? How do you intend to reduce the role of the government? This is, of course, very important in practice. What specific measures do you intend to take to achieve this? It's easy to say, of course, but how are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u243	I have just mentioned the examples. That Mr Otten apparently thinks that is bad ideas is up to him. I talked about huge spending on climate policy, public spending on climate policy. This is also part of public expenditure. I have talked about the expenditure on immigration and the contribution to Brussels, not only for the apparatus that sits there, but also for the policy that is being pursued there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u244	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u245	I hear a lot of words, but no concrete way to get here. Maybe we'll find out some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u246	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u247	Mr. Chairman. Pumping money leads to huge bureaucracy and implementation problems. It costs a lot of energy and money, and it contributes to human suffering, as we can also see from the child allowance affair. As far as we are concerned, the tax system, our system, needs to be radically simplified. The next few years must and can be resolved accordingly. The time is right. It's been discussed for years, but successive cabinets didn't come through. In fact, they have succeeded in consistently increasing taxes such as VAT and energy taxes over the past decade. The overall tax burden has increased by more than 4 percentage points since 2010 and is now close to 40%. The marginal pressure has already been talked about today: what is left of someone if he or she earns more is unfavourable. It doesn't pay for many people to go to work, to work more or to make promotions. The additional gross income resulting from this simply often does not outweigh the limited additional net income resulting from the loss of additional income. According to the Cabinet, in response to our questions, a high marginal pressure is needed to redistribute wealth to compensate for minimal, but that is not the whole story. This can also be done after a thorough cut in the complicated surcharge circus in exchange for simpler alternatives such as a lower income tax and a higher free base and by creating simple standard allowances. Standard allowances quickly reek of a basic income, but in practice we already have that. But it doesn't look like it, because it's a complex strain of all kinds of specific regulations. We call it different, but in fact this country already has a basic income. As far as we are concerned, a simpler and fairer tax system should reduce marginal pressure, ensure that more work always pays and contribute to a smaller and more efficient government in terms of implementation and tax legislation: one that is pumping around less money than in the present. Mr President, then the future. It has to be different, but how? It is clear that it has to be different, but if it was simple, it would have been a long time ago. We're curious about the formation and what comes out of it. However, since the same parties formed the governing bodies in recent years, we expect no breakthrough in the area of radical simplification of the tax and surcharge system. The previous cabinet presented in the file Revision of the tax system in May 2020 I have just recalled the reports Building blocks for a better tax system with the Fichebundel policy options: a menu of 306 pages with 169 very varied dishes, from simple practice such as increasing VAT to exotic amuses such as slaughter tax and excise duties on aggregates. This excess of justice for a better tax system, like a full menu in a restaurant, leads to choice stress, while attention should be focused on the main course: a simple and just system. If one does not get out of the coalition agreement, it would testify to a new administrative culture and new impetus if the House of Representatives, perhaps with the help of the First Chamber, took over and, despite all the political contradictions, tried to achieve a breakthrough in the coming years, with everyone doing some water and simplifying the tax system away from one's own political stickhorses. Mr. Chairman. Yeah, well, you can do that. There are parties that tried last year. Last year, for example, D66, FVD and 50PLUS had the CPB pass on revisions of the social security and tax system. I can tell you as an experienced expert with one of those credit transfers: that's not a sinecure. First of all, the simplifications must not lead to an insurmountable deficit in the state budget... Mr President, on a point of order. There's really a lot of loud talk next door. That bothers you when you make the contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u248	Then the request is for Members to do less. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u249	It's not easy. First of all, the simplifications should not lead to an insurmountable deficit in the national budget and secondly not to disproportionately disadvantage large groups of Dutch people in their household books, in the purchasing power picture. The three parties mentioned were, as I said, making an effort. Both D66 and FVD deleted the rental allowance, the child-related budget, child benefit and care allowance, as well as the mortgage interest deduction, and introduced a cash-in-house tax discount. FVD and 50PLUS continued and also replaced the general tax discount and labour discount in favour of cashable tax discounts. FVD even continued this to the AOW and the assistance. 50PLUS also deleted the mortgage interest rate deduction, but left the rent payment intact; a missed opportunity. However, 50PLUS has an important novelty in the cash-in-cash tax credit. In fact, their calculated cash-inable tax discount was not at household level, but a personal discount. The result of this transfer, which may also be said, was rather spectacular: simplification, but also purchasing power was on average 5% higher, and both workers, pensioners and beneficiaries improved against "only" 6.5 billion negative effects on the state budget. State Secretary Van Huffelen also refers to some of these transfers in her policy options for alternatives to the supplement scheme presented in December 2020. Mr. Chairman. The point we want to make today is one of the binding Christmas gods. The ingredients for a simpler and fairer tax system are ready. It's within reach, if the shoulders go under together. Then there is room for political differences, turning the tax buttons and riding their own stick horses. My question to the directors today is: how do they see the follow-up to simplifying this system? Do they see an important role for the cabinet there, or is there an important role for the Chamber, for the House of Representatives and perhaps even for the First?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u250	I have listened very carefully to Mr Van der Linden. Congratulations for doing his homework so well and going through all the pieces again. I understand he's been involved in preparing his own piece before, so to speak. The suggestion he makes, Second and First Chambers, I find very interesting. Because if the House of Representatives wants something and we don't, we don't get anywhere with it either, or vice versa; so together. Perhaps it is an idea that his group, the D66 Group and the 50PLUS Group here in this First Chamber might be developing an initiative to do that together with the House of Representatives a little bit apolitically. It sounds a little weird for politicians, 'apolitical', but that is what I think you are trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u251	Yeah, that's one of the options. Perhaps the simplification, the radical simplification of the system is about to become one of a new cabinet. It'll save us a lot of work. But it's definitely an option to talk about that. What I would like to point out here is that you should actually make a cut in radical simplification on the one hand, simplification on the other hand, which is really important, and on the other hand, that there is still room for everyone to ride their own political stickhorses. That's where we think there's an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u252	I would like to thank Mr van der Linden for his reply. I would like to congratulate him once again on the great work he has done. Let's see how we can pick this up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u253	Before you fall sobbing into each other's arms, I suggest you continue your argument, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u254	Mr. President, it's almost Christmas, isn't it? Of course, we have some wishes of our own. I'm treating two of them at the end of my first term today. On the one hand, box 3 is also mentioned a few times and on the other hand, a point on VAT. The box 3 scheme has been a monstrum, a freak for years. Saving and Dutch economy are severely punished. Savers pay by taxing them for fictitious returns. The economical savers pay more taxes on their assets than they deserve. In the current interest rates, made possible by the euro and the ECB, this is nothing but improper undressing of savers. The Attorney General of the Supreme Court was clear about it. He concluded that this tax on savers is contrary to property rights, but this will not be repaired until 2025. Why is this taking so long, I'm asking the Secretary of State. Suggestions from DNB and IMF to tax the hard-earned home in box 3, are already the limit and unacceptable to us. It's the old rigging again: more taxes to pay more government. Let's turn that around. Then we may be able to remove a number of taxes altogether. Secondly, VAT. We want to close with a piece of low-hanging fruit, or rather: low-hanging fruit and vegetables. We believe that a VAT rate should be as low as possible on fruit and vegetables. It's healthy. We eat too little of it, while the Netherlands is a leading global player in the agf sector. We're more than good at it. We are pleased that the European Finance Ministers agreed last week to allow Member States to set the VAT rate on fruit and vegetables at 0%. That's at least 5% now. We look forward to that 0% on fruit and vegetables and we are in favour of it. However, it is already possible, within international agreements, to apply not only one but two low VAT rates as a Member State, i.e. the lowest 5% rate in addition to the 9% rate. We welcome such an additional reduced rate, specifically for fruit and vegetables. It is frustrating that an additional rate cannot be introduced for years because the Tax Administration's computer says no, because the Tax Administration's IT declaration system cannot handle it. The Netherlands needs to save the climate by 2030, but will not get an extra box in the VAT return implemented. That can't be true, can it? My question to the Minister is whether the Secretary of State is: what is the status of this? Has it been ordered to remedy this technical flaw? Where are we now? On this point, we are considering a motion together with Mr Prast of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u255	You're almost done, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u256	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u257	Will you finish this? Then I give Mr Van Strien all the space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u258	Okay, Mr. Chairman. We are in favour of restoring the past to the present with regard to the pursuit of a smaller government. We are in favour of breaking the status quo of the present, where we are dealing with far too complex a bureaucratic tax and surcharge system. And we call for a future scenario in which we work together with as many political parties as possible on a simpler and fairer tax and surcharge system, with, of course, also room for political differences. That seems like a nice wish list for under the Christmas tree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u259	Thank you. Mr Van Strien has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u260	I was pleased to listen to Mr van der Linden when he talked about simplifying the tax system and the ideas he put forward for this, but to my surprise he said at the end of his speech that we still need to introduce an additional VAT rate. I don't understand. That seems to me to be completely contrary to the first part of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u261	I understand that question, but that is not the case, of course, because VAT is, in itself, a rather simple measure. Of course, you can make that very complex with the discussion what exactly should be in which category, but one box of 5% is obviously not as complex in technical terms as all these surcharges depend on all kinds of income and tabs. VAT is actually a rather simple measure. In addition, we propose to add it in the lowest segment, i.e. lower taxes. That is something Mr Van Strien must address.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u262	That lower rate really appeals to me: 0%, fantastic! But you're saying it's actually not that hard. That is exactly what all these parties say every time when it comes to adapting the tax legislation: rate your sister, rate so. It's all very simple: put together makes it one giant clumsy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u263	I also asked the Secretary of State about this. If it turns out that the computer is still saying "no" and there is a convincing story why it is really impossible to include that one box in the declaration for that percentage in our systems, then we will take it with us and involve it in our second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u264	Thank you. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u265	Mr. Chairman. May I begin with two observations about tonight? While Mr Essers was working on his speech, I received a message that the negotiators have reached a new agreement. About half an hour before that, his phone rang. That's just an observation. Then my second observation tonight. At the beginning of the evening it was very warm here, but since that coalition agreement was known, it became a lot fresher. Who knows what that means! I just don't know. Mr. Chairman. The citizen of the Netherlands is supposed to know the law. Let me start with a little test using a quote. Suppose the citizen would just browse through the Tax Plan 2022 for the fun. Then he comes to the Corporate Tax Act. A change is proposed for this. I'm just reading you a quote. "For the purposes of paragraph 4 of Article 25a, the pre-charges levied for the timing of a company's adjudication shall be deducted from the tax levied on the parent company of one year in so far as the company has an amount of remaining pre-adjudications." Mr. President, are you still there? I estimate that there are citizens who do not fully understand this. The Secretary of State will understand. I see him gloating: what a gem there is in that law! I admire that, and I admire his officials too. They gave us a briefing that sounded like a clock; compliments. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with something that the Secretary of State cannot do anything about, namely torrential inflation. Meanwhile, the counter is at 5.2%. Of course, it's crystal clear. The high energy prices, the scarcity of articles due to the flight that the economy is taking despite the coronapandemic and the screaming shortage of construction products are just three elements that raise prices and thus contribute to high inflation. My question is, of course, what does that mean in concrete terms for people at the bottom of the wage building or for people who have to live on benefits? 'Cause I'm not so worried about all kinds of people who might earn one-and-a-half or two modes. They'll be fine. In fact, they are also responsible for this inflation because of their consumer behaviour. But what about the welfare mom, the one-earner who can only just pay for his house and support his family or the man on the conveyor belt and make sure we drive a perfect car? Do they have enough to live on? Mr. Chairman. That's important. Of course you can say that it will be corrected, because salaries will rise by themselves, but it will take some time for inflation to be reflected in salaries. There's gonna be some complaints about the paywave that's coming. Before that, there are millions of people who have to cope with inflation of around 5% at the moment. If the wallet is normally empty in the third week of the month, it will now be much earlier. My question is: are there any structural measures to be put in place for these vulnerable people in society? Mr. Chairman. This issue is not on its own. We regularly discuss the broad concept of prosperity here. And we're right to worry about poverty. Now, what does the case want? Just last week, the CBS came up with figures on poverty. The report Poverty and Social Exclusion 2021 sets out where the vulnerable are. For example, it appears that earners are six times more likely to fall into poverty than two-earner families. The question to the Secretary of State is whether it is true that the tax system has contributed to this risk for income families. And does he also see that urgent action is needed? What's he giving his successor on this file? The difference between these two families is also reflected in the state of marginal pressure for two-earners. I requested this in the written round, and I thank the government for its consistent behaviour in sending marginal pressure to one earner, but now I also got it for two earners. I thought it was important to look at that. And what does it turn out to be? I have already said it in an interrupting debate today. With a modal income of about €40,000, the marginal pressure for a two-earner is 41% and for a single earner is 77%. Simply put, if you get a salary increase of €100, the two-earner will have €59 and the one-earner will have €23. My question to the government is: isn't that absurd? Why is that? Can't you fix that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u266	About one- and two-earners is a well-known example from the lectures that the Secretary of State and I have followed together the following, excuse for stereotyping. A man is single and has a housekeeper. He marries the housekeeper and now GDP is going down, because first she made money on the market as a housekeeper and now she's doing it at home as a housewife. If you look at what we include in the national product, the UN, OECD, the European Commission and the World Bank say that domestic production within the same family is production in the economic sense. I think Mr Schalk will agree with me that this production has value. But that production is not taxed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u267	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u268	Neither income tax nor VAT. My question is whether we should not correct that principle, that marginal pressure, for the fact that there is so much domestic production within the family that is not taxed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u269	I think I find it very complicated to fully understand the question. If I understand correctly, Mrs. Prast means that someone who, for example, takes care of his family; suppose, the wife works outside and the husband takes care of the children, sorry for the stereotypes... Does that have any value, what that man does? Do we have to reward that or do we have to punish it? That is the question to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u270	Is this your question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u271	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u272	Two questions again. Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u273	I don't see the difference whether that would be a man or a woman at home. What I mean to say is that there is production within the family. For purely pragmatic reasons we do not count that in GDP, for purely pragmatic reasons we do not burden it, but it has value. My question was whether you should not correct that marginal pressure or the pressure at all for that value. We also have the number of hours produced within a household, in single-earner families and two-earner families. There's a 1.7 difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u274	I'm still trying to figure out what Mrs. Prast means. Maybe she means the same as me, which is: let's stop with a marginal pressure for two-earners and one for one-earners. We have a lot of fees and penalties for the fact that you've decided that this man is taking care of the family, sorry for the stereotype. If that's what you mean, I say yes, indeed, let's ask the government to stop doing that. And let's just get an honest... A flat tax would, of course, be interesting, but also the way you look at the total family income, and in that way that family will be paid in the same way through taxes. That I, I think, the most honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u275	You can also come back to this in the second term. Then you can think about it for a while. Mrs Prast agrees with this. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u276	Yes, it is interesting that she asks, because I have, of course, been arguing for a long time that there is a huge problem for thoseone-earners. Just so we're clear, there have been a few people tonight who have told us how many years they've been doing it. Well, I've been doing it for a couple of years: since 2015. Then I could say that a single earner paid five times as much tax. In the meantime, we're at seven times. Sorry, very precisely, because that's not entirely true: it was 6.95 last year and now it's 6.91. That's because we're turning a few buttons. You could say that we give one of the buttons, the transferable general tax discount, a strong pendulum per year, which ends up with the 6.5% of the tax rate, so to speak. And then you have two other little buttons, and you have to turn them very carefully. That happens, and then you get these marginal differences with last year, which makes the effect seem positive. The effect is, by the way, at the expense of the two-earners. My question to the Secretary of State is whether it is true that the two-earners pay the price. But let's go to 6,95 and now 6,91. I've calculated what that means: it's about €80 a year. That's €6.50 per month, €1.50 per week. Let's just say half a sandwich a week. Mr President, irony. I just mentioned the CBS report on poverty in families. And another thing: in this Chamber there is a law waiting for treatment to freeze inflation on child benefit. With steam and boiling water passed through the House of Representatives and as soon as it came in here, the valve was loosened; the steam could come off. Apparently, the government saw the sky-high inflation coming. Or perhaps the buttons were counted, and it was clear that this was not the right time to submit the law to the First Chamber. I hope I have made my point sufficiently clear. I do not understand that the government does not understand that this is indigestible and unfair. I'm looking for opportunities to do something for the families, and I'm asking the Secretary of State to think with me. I'd like to present him with three options. The first is: freeze the phasing-out of the transferable general tax rebate. That's good for everyone. Two: repeal the draft law on the freezing of the indexing of child benefit. He can't, but maybe with a little call to a fellow minister. And three: do something substantial for a earner at the bottom of the payroll building. Would the Secretary of State want to reflect on these three options or add possibilities? Mr. Chairman. This is a difficult issue and that is why I pay so much attention to it, because there are, of course, other things to name. I have a short question about, for example, the targeted exemption for homework costs. It is logical that a combination with a targeted exempted travel allowance is not possible, but the question is whether the fluctuating situations of the corona pandemic affect this. The implementation test also calls for attention to be paid to the sensitivity of fraud in this respect. Where will the burden of proof lie: with employers or employees? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also has a question concerning a comment by the Council of State on the increasing use of policy rules. The problem is not so much with the interpretative policy rules as with the adoptive policy rules. To this end, the Cabinet has announced the development of a framework setting out the conditions under which it is considered acceptable to use policy decisions. That leads to the following questions. Is there a timetable for developing the relevant frameworks, and can this Chamber be informed about the frameworks once they have been established? Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a few comments, a few questions, in fact, about the supplementing affair. I see the Secretary of State is grabbing the pen immediately. It's very exciting what's going on. In fact, I am particularly concerned about how the Secretary of State ensures that the trial takes place. Then my second question is: how do we avoid unpleasant surprises by promising too much to the injured? Does the Secretary of State agree that we need to get the ongoing operation in order before we introduce new arrangements? And finally, is there really any planning so that the progress of this process can be properly monitored and monitored? Mr President, those were my questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u277	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u278	Mr. Chairman. First of all, our group is pleased that if we can believe the smoke signals from the Logement, for the first time in the Rutte IV cabinet in a long time, we have a chance of becoming an economist minister at the Ministry of Finance, perhaps in the person of this Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief. Last year I met the Secretary of State at the Ministry in detail, because we were talking about a possible introduction of the BIK scheme, an arrangement that our group was not necessarily unwilling to accept. I don't want to remember the next anecdote. It had already been noticed by several people that Secretary of State Vijlbrief and I show some resemblance. I will never forget the special reception I received last year at the Ministry by the security officer who was there at the entrance: come along, Secretary of State, here is the service elevator. It took me at least half a minute to convince the most friendly security officer that I really wasn't the Secretary of State: I am Otten, not File Letter. It wasn't until I showed him my passport that he believed me. We then had a productive session, in which we discussed that the BIK might work if the instrument succeeded in bringing forward already planned and planned investments in time. The risk that the BIK would nevertheless be considered as EU aid where entrepreneurs might have to pay back the BIK later with interest, turned out to be too big later and therefore today we are treating the law repealing the BIK. The EU didn't like the BIK and so the cabinet shot a goat with the BIK. Mr. Chairman. Inflation has been rising particularly rapidly in recent months. That is to say, our money is becoming less valuable and our purchasing power is falling rapidly. The marginal increases in the tax rebates in this Tax Plan are far from compensating for this increase in inflation. The Netherlands is also falling short of the average inflation rate of the euro area. So we don't need a complicated ritual CPB transfer to conclude that this Tax Plan results in a significant decrease in real purchasing power for a lot of Dutch people. But now that interest rates are still low, almost zero, this is the last chance for the Dutch State to borrow free money for a long time on the long-term capital market and to repay these loans over decades with money, which has become much less valuable. An approach that we have been promoting for some years in this First Chamber and now it is becoming increasingly clear that this is an intelligent approach, especially in the given situation. This could finance a tax reform and simplification of the tax system, which, of course, should have taken place a long time ago, as other speakers pointed out. The purchasing power effects of higher inflation can therefore be offset for Dutch households and especially for lower and middle incomes. In the meantime, the expensive and sometimes ineffective public administration system that absorbs more than 10% of our national income each year can be reorganized and streamlined. Mr. Chairman. It is high time to put our administrative polder landscape in order and modernise. If the corona crisis has shown anything, then it is that this poachy way of working is really totally out of date in 2022. This has got to be different. All I have to do is point out the permanent polder problems surrounding the booster shot, where the slowness is starting to irritate many people. The model for decision-making should be less complex, more transparent and with clearer responsibilities: who is responsible for what? Well, you can do that now. Within the euro area, this tax reform can be financed by temporarily increasing public debt. This is therefore the only rational strategy. I have also mentioned this on several occasions in debates with Secretary of State Mr Vijlbrief, who, as we know, has also played important functions within the euro group. Last year, in the negotiations on the EU recovery plan, it became clear that the Netherlands is unable to shape policies in the euro area in its own right. Massive and long-term transfers to southern Europe are now the result, as are joint European debts, for which the Netherlands is now implicitly guaranteed with the triple A rating. "If you can't beat them, and if you don't want to get out, then join them" becomes the motto. Then what should happen to taxes? Increase the overall tax reduction by a substantial amount for all workers and pensioners, so that there will be a strong purchasing power boost in these difficult times, with inflation rising again. The new mantra of central bankers is that this inflation is only temporary in nature. Central banks also called for this in the 1970s, following the sharp rise in oil prices. Earlier today, we saw that German wholesale prices increased by almost 17% in November compared to the same month last year. This is the largest annual increase since 1962. That is a very remarkable development. The gas price also increased by about 10% today. In the early 1980s, inflation fell to 15%. In 1980 the new American Fed President Paul Volcker decided that it should be over and he raised the federal funds rate, an important interest rate, to over 20%. This led to a major global recession, but in 1983 inflation had been reduced to 3% and the economic boom of the 1980s began. Mr. Chairman. Inflation is driven mainly by inflation expectations. If they are not anchored in economic jargon or "anchored" you run the risk of a wage-price spiral, which increases inflation very quickly. Prices are rising, trade unions and workers demand higher wages to compensate for rising prices, employers charge that again in their cost price, which increases prices even faster, workers want compensation and so on. Our question to Secretary of State Vijlbrief is how firmly anchored, according to his estimate, he has of course also been an economist and in the eurogroup who are currently expecting inflation. This is an essential question, which the Netherlands' fiscal strategy needs to be adapted to. If this anchor is released, inflation can rise very quickly. Mr. Chairman. So what is to be done now? The new cabinet must now really move forward and quickly implement a less complex and more transparent tax system. We have already tabled several motions on this in the past, and we are considering doing it again in the second term. The tax burden on labour should also be substantially reduced so that it pays to work again and also to work more. The marginal tax burden has already been much remembered today, and it is now far too high. In the State Secretary's reply, we have seen on page 8 that the marginal tax burden for a single person in 2022 is already at €27,000 gross wage 89%. Of course, that doesn't exactly encourage extra effort and it doesn't motivate it. For years therefore, we have consistently advocated a system with a much higher general tax discount, as in England, for example. This is much more transparent to the population, reduces the complexity of implementation and results in more economic growth, so that the debt ratio is maintained by the so-called denominator effects. I checked it out. In 2022, the personal allowance is in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, so that's the general tax discount you don't pay a tax on. At today's rate, this is about €15,000. So you don't pay taxes on that. Above it are three discs of 20%, 40% and 45%. But they've also come up with something to correct this for the higher incomes. For every £2 that you earn above £100,000 income, the personal allowance of £12,570 goes down by 1 pound. So if you make £125,000, then your entire personal allowance is back up. That is also very fair, fair, simple, clear and transparent. So make the tax system much simpler and more transparent, so that everyone knows where they are and so that it pays to work and undertake again. It's much better than that, so what are we waiting for? As with the difficult approach to the corona crisis, we now have to open our eyes to other countries and see what works and what doesn't work, rather than endlessly polling and the economic navelyarding by the Centraal Planbureau; in one piece I read that the Secretary of State himself, after a six-month period, preached it at this institute, because he experienced a lack of pressure. Mr. Chairman. We also lack in this Tax Plan an exemption from inheritance and gift tax to a considerable amount, so that the baby tree generation, which has been relatively windy for 50 years, can pass on the accumulated assets to the next generation, which can cope with the blows of all kinds of successive crises and unexpected setbacks. Encourage solidarity between generations through at least a significant reduction in the donation and inheritance tax. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the supplemental affair. The Rutte cabinet fell over on 15 January 2021 and has been decommissioned for almost a year now. In itself, this is already a dubious achievement. During an earlier debate with Secretary of State Van Huffelen on the surcharges on 16 November, I noticed that our group was speechless about the lack of resolution capacity. One of the starting points of the solution is to stop at least charging and tax cases by the rebellious Pels Rijcken office, the state attorney, where many millions of people have been cheated, not to mention by the top man. The Secretary of State wants to continue with that office like nothing's wrong. In the Lower House, the member Omtzigt therefore tabled a very short but powerful motion in which he was asked to stop using the services of the Land Attorney Pels Rijcken for tax and surcharge matters with immediate effect. This motion had broad support, but just came a few votes short in the House of Representatives. That is why we are submitting her again today, in this First Chamber, so that the motion in the First Chamber, like the same parties, can vote as in the Second Chamber, with our support. The situation here is just as different from that in the House of Representatives. According to our calculations, this motion should be able to reach 38 votes. As a result, the cooperation with Pels Rijcken can be terminated. Mr. Chairman. That is why I shall table the next motion in the first term. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Tax Administration should only use a law firm which is not contaminated by a major fraud case;]] [[calls on the government to stop using the current state attorney, Pels Rijcken, on tax and surcharge matters with immediate effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u279	For the connoisseurs: this is literally the same text as the Omtzigt motion in the Lower House of some time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u280	Is that what you're doing at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u281	I just wanted to say that we are looking forward to the answer to our questions by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u282	I have one more question for Mr Filipino... Mr Otten, I am sorry. That English model, which he just told us about, sounded very interesting, with that higher foot and that it goes away with higher incomes. First parliamentary groups also have access to the CPB for the calculation of simplifications of the social security system. Is it perhaps an idea that Mr Otten is going to work on this and that we can discuss it next year with that suggestion of the English model and the abolition of a number of supplements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u283	I have here the motion 35302 of 10 December 2019, in which exactly this is addressed. The English model is also mentioned, including the 12,500 pounds, so €15,000. On November 16th we have the motion in part No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We want to do this again in the second term. Now we are personally not such admirers of endless calculations by the Central Planning Bureau. If I understand correctly, the CPB is also somewhat sidelined in the current coalition agreement. In today's turbulent times, where gas prices rise by 10% every day and where corona prevails, such a calculation is of course quickly obsolete. We are always interested in calculating everything, but above all we want concrete action to be taken. That's why we've been hammering on it since 10 December 2019, more than two years ago, through two motions. That first motion was passed and the other one we apprehended. So, yeah, we're just gonna keep trying. I understand from your speech that you also support this, Mr. Van der Linden. That's very good for us. We therefore hope that together with as many parties as possible we can realise these good plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u284	Mr Otten is getting rid of it a little easily. It's a motion for the cabinet, but it's going to have it calculated again. The motion is therefore carried out by the CPB. Actually, my call is: take it in your own hands and turn on the desk itself. Then you can follow it yourself and you can work on it yourself. Then as a Chamber we can take matters into our own hands and show that there are alternatives. That's actually my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u285	Unlike Mr Van der Linden, we can do our own calculations. We're not gonna make ourselves dependent on the Central Planning Bureau. The Secretary of State worked there for a short time and he quickly concluded that he was going to do something else. I understand. There is nothing wrong with the Central Planning Bureau, but as Mr Van der Linden may know, a lot of investigations are being framed at the CPB. There are all kinds of limitations to it, while you just have to think out of the box. We cannot find the CPB route for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u286	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u287	Tomorrow morning the debate will continue with the government's first-term response. Contrary to what was said earlier today, this is after the debate on the bill Reduction rate rental tax and monthly change amounts tax reductions. So that debate is not taking place today, it is going to take place tomorrow morning. I'll suspend the meeting and wish you all at home.
