ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u1	The issue now is the VSO State of play preparation of Dutch Parliamentary Election (35165, nr. 30).......................................................................................................................................................................... I would, of course, like to welcome all the spokesmen, particularly the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks. She's the first speaker. Good morning! Actually, we've had half a day, right, because of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u2	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In three weeks, the elections will be held. The elections take place at a special time. It is very important for democracy that everyone who wants to vote should vote. Fortunately, the Minister has taken many measures together with municipalities to ensure that voting is safe, but there is one group of people with vulnerable health who unfortunately cannot vote by letter, because they are under 70 years of age. GroenLinks has received many signals from people who are concerned about their health. We believe that these people should be facilitated as much as possible in order to be able to coronaproof their voices. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with vulnerable health who are under 70 years of age cannot vote by letter;]] [[whereas some of these people are very concerned about whether they can vote safely;]] [[considers that the right to vote is a fundamental right which must be able to be exercised safely by any person who so wishes;]] [[calls on the Government, together with municipalities and interest groups, to ensure that everyone can safely vote by encouraging, for example, outlying locations, informing all members of the polling bureau on how best to assist vulnerable health people in the safe release of their voices and to disseminate information on coronaproof voices in a visible manner through accessible information channels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35165-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There has been a letter from the Minister following a question from me to hold a debate. In the letter we asked a number of questions, which unfortunately we have not received any answers because it is still not clear what the standards are to determine whether or not it is going to happen. It looks very strong: head down, mind at zero and go with the banana. This cannot be done with elections, because for me as a democrat, at least, the elections are a sacred good that you must cherish and do in the best possible conditions. I was glad this morning with the voting pass, because I'm 70-plus. But I did think: for most people who aren't so digitally skilled, it will be quite a job to get out. The pass I got, I'm gonna have to keep it in case there's a new pass coming up. The municipality of The Hague thinks that I should look at the site where I have to vote on Monday and Tuesday and does not bother to make that clear in another way. In my view, therefore, there is still a great deal to be done. I read this morning in De Volkskrant the story of the director of PostNL, who was surprised that MPs had not yet come. In the previous debate, I expressed the necessary criticism and doubts about the way PostNL handles it. I had received an invitation and would like to respond to the invitation that came to me via de Volkskrant from PostNL, because I foresaw the big problems with the regular mail order last time. That now leads to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the imminent third wave in the corona pandemic;]] [[Whereas government measures aim to limit as many meetings and transport movements as possible;]] [[having regard to the fact that a large number of people meet at national elections in very many places, and there are risks of spreading the virus despite all precautions;]] [[calls on the Government to specify the criteria for whether or not the elections should continue, for example as regards the number of infections and the appeal to care;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify what collateral damage it considers acceptable in terms of health consequences and possibly lower turnout,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35165-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u5	What am I gonna do next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u6	Just stay within the speaking time. You knew that, didn't you, Mr. Van Otterloo? Then you shouldn't try another way. Anyway... You can also just start with the motion, because that's what you wanted. Now Mr Snoeren on behalf of the VVD. Then you will have the floor, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr President. When I started here as a Member of Parliament, my first subject was this election. Now I'm going to end this Chamber period with that again. I don't have a motion, but I still have a few questions for the Minister. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers to the questions we have asked. A lot of work has been done. At this particular time, we are trying to ensure that the elections are conducted as safely as possible. We have arranged this through various laws and it is good that my motion and the evaluation of the reclassification have produced useful information. My group is still curious when we can receive the next written input, in particular on preparations for the municipalities. Are they still in trouble? Maybe the Minister can go into that. The CBS has made a statistical calculation based on a hacking scenario in which the addition software of all 355 municipalities has been hacked. The outcome is that this is unlikely, especially if we do that control with those three major parties. Then something like this will come to light soon. In our input we have also asked whether an attack on one or two large municipalities has been taken into account, something which may be less good and less soon to come to light. That question has not really been addressed in the written submissions. I would ask the Minister to go into that further. Such a hack can also have a big impact on the results. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Snoeren. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. They're gonna be special elections. The Rutte cabinet spawns the voters by softening the measures. Many citizens simply say: after the elections, they will come back hard with tough measures, with tough cuts. There's a lot of distrust of the cabinet. 5% say they're not going to vote. There's a group of people who are afraid to vote because of possible contamination. Did the Minister do everything in his power to convince everyone to go to the ballot box after all? Elections are very important. The future of the Netherlands is also determined by the elections. It's a fundamental right. Every citizen must be able to vote freely. 70-plussers are allowed to vote by letter for the first time in the history of the Netherlands. There has been an experiment, as I understand it in The Hague. That didn't go well. What measures has the Minister taken to ensure that all 70-plussers, 2.4 million people, are able to vote properly and that few mistakes are made? We are concerned that a lot of people are not able to exercise their right to vote because of this paper mill and that this will ultimately have an impact on the election results. That would be a shame, that shouldn't happen. If you take your ballot to the mailbox, what happens to your voice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u10	Do you have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u11	No. I'm rounding up. I thought, when is she coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u12	Well, now. I didn't want you to get into trouble with your speaking time. I wanted to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u14	You didn't expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. It's also one of your duties, Mr. Chairman. The point is that 2.4 million people don't really know what happens to their voices. I would once again ask the Minister to make that very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. I'll take a look at the minister. I see she can respond right away and give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am happy to answer the questions and comments. We have talked about this many times and for a long time. Almost on the eve of the elections, not least in the election recess, we see that it is a good thing that we have gone through this careful legislative process together so that we can allow these special elections to continue in a responsible manner at this particular time. It is, of course, a very good thing in our democratic rule of law that free elections are held. We facilitate those elections, but of course those elections are not ours. They are primarily for the more than 13 million voters of the Netherlands, who are simply entitled to speak out. Mr President, then the questions. First, Mrs Özütok's question about vulnerable people under 70. She is right to call attention to that group. Like them, I think it is important that these vulnerable voters find the ballot box and that they are familiar with the special measures we have taken for them. I have spoken very extensively with the organisation Each one, who represents the interests of people with a vulnerability, a chronic illness or whatever. Together with the organisation, I said: elections open to all are crucial. We actually have these voters in our sights. We are spending now and we will also pay particular attention to the opportunities that exist for them in the public campaign that is still under way. So that's three. Firstly, the early vote on 15 and 16 March in the voting rooms specially opened for this purpose. We call on everyone in the target group of people who are particularly vulnerable to the coronavirus to vote on Mondays or Tuesdays. At the same time, we call on all other people to vote on Wednesday in particular, so that those polling stations are quiet on that day and that we give the vulnerable voters room in particular. This is also a form of solidarity that we can work together to make it possible for this group to simply go to the polling station itself. The organization Elke(in) says that, but I am also aware that there are people who have actually put themselves in self-insulation since the outbreak of the coronavirus and who are no longer coming out of the house. For nothing, huh? Of course, that's unimaginable for these people, but they have a vulnerability that they're so worried about for medical reasons that they don't. For that group then there is the possibility to empower someone. For this we have decided together to increase the number of authorisations once from two to three. So I guess we're doing everything we can. Of course we also have other organisations, the Longfonds, Diabetesvereniging Nederland, the elder union. They have done research in the backs of their organisations, and it turns out that by far the majority of people are very motivated to vote. The voice instinct is there, albeit slightly lower than in the ordinary group. I'm sorry to make it so long, but I think it's a very important point. But I now come to Mrs Özütok's motion on item No. 33. Basically, I think we need to communicate very well and inform people very well. The members of the polling bureau shall be informed by the instruction. Are we gonna continue to spread the information? Yes. So we do so in all kinds of ways, including through those organisations of interest. For that reason, I would like to give this motion a Chamber of Appeal. Then I come to Mr Van Otterloo. He said one thing that I really need to correct. He suggested that we all, all of us who would like to have that election on 15, 16 and 17 March, put the mind to nothing and just keep going. Well, Mr Van Otterloo knows very well that that is not the case. That is not the case with me, that is not the case with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that is not the case with the municipalities, and that is certainly not the case with all the members of the polling bureau who will be working soon. In other words, there is a very large group of people working in a very responsible way to organise the elections. So I'm really gonna distance myself from that. Mr Van Otterloo referred to the clarity of the instruction and communication. Maybe it is good to highlight at that point that the people who are allowed to vote in writing, i.e. those aged 70 and over, are in no way dependent on digital explanations. They can simply be sufficiently instructed on the basis of what they find in the mailbox and on the basis of the telephone number on that letter, without any form of digital explanation on how to vote. I think that is important, because we all know that this group is not entirely digitally skilled. For your information, I would say that it would seem that some 30% of this group really want to use that letter voice. That means that a large part of these 70-plussers would prefer to go to the polling room anyway, which is of course also their right. What Mr Van Otterloo wants or doesn't want with PostNL, we can communicate with each other via the Volkskrant and this Chamber, but I suppose that will also be facilitated and that the offer still stands. The second motion is Mr Van Otterloo's motion on item No. 34. We've talked about this a lot. I have always said: we did not agree to look at an x-number of infections or an x-number of ic-recordings before the elections. We're organizing the election securely. That is our starting point. Secure elections so that everyone can vote. That's the criterion. That's why I'm not recommending the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u18	A brief question, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u19	The remark "head down and mind at zero" was for letting go and the decision not to insert a moment to look at the significance of the increasing number of infections. The Minister made the point that it does not go via the Internet, but I see on that voting card this morning that I have to look on the internet of the City of The Hague to see which offices are open earlier, on Monday and Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yeah, but explanation was about the letter vote. That is exactly what I said. If 70-plussers want to vote in writing, they don't have to look at any site. Mr Van Otterloo indeed spoke about how he could know which voting locations are open in his municipality on 15 and 16 March. It's different from one municipality to another. But yesterday I had a discussion with the VNG and the Dutch Society of Mayors. Many or actually all municipalities also provide maximum communication on this subject, for example via door-to-door magazines. So it's rarely gonna be the only way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. Then we're... yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr President, I have to finish. A lot of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u23	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u24	Then I'll go to Mr. Snoeren of the VVD. He felt that I had not sufficiently addressed the issue of add-on software and what problems it could cause, for example if there were problems in one or two municipalities. That really is a point for the Election Council. The Election Board will determine the outcome. The Election Board will also ensure that this is done properly and that it is safe. The Election Council sends a monitoring protocol to the municipalities and also takes responsibility in advance for ensuring that this will be done in a safe manner. That's how it is. I'll get to DENK. In my view, the core question was whether we are doing enough to ensure that people actually vote. We will of course continue to do so until the elections. The campaign Every vote counts just goes on. Maybe you've seen some expressions of it, with the big red pencil. We're just gonna keep doing that. We are targeting target groups, age target groups, the target groups mentioned by Mrs Özütok, vulnerable people, young people: everyone gets their own treatment, I would almost say. So yes, we continue to do so to convince everyone to just vote and also to explain that it is safe to vote. That's very important. I also answered parliamentary questions about the experiment in The Hague. The most important lesson from all of our own investigations is that we really need to invite voters to read clearly how to do it. The most common mistake was that people thought a little too quickly: I did well. By the way, this rarely leads to the non-approval or non-measuring of a voice. But it is important that both the voting card and the ballot are sent, just like when you go to the polling station: you turn in your voting card, you get your ballot in return and you do so on the bus again. It's the same thing. Mr. Chairman. I think that's what was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you. A brief question from Mr Snoeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u26	I have not yet had an answer to the question about municipalities and preparations, when we can get an update.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u27	Oh, sorry. I forgot that question. I promised the Chamber at the end of February, but that's Sunday. I'm not gonna send you a letter on Sunday, but I'm gonna send you a letter early next week. Then you get an update and there is also the state of play with the municipalities. So that letter's coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u28	A brief question from Mr Özütok. No, not Mr Özütok, of course: Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u29	You're getting older too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u30	Well, lucky for you, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u31	There are also people who forgot to sign the letter. They think the voice was sent by me anyway. Will such a vote be declared invalid? Have you made a ruling on that yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u32	Yes. We have also discussed this in the debate, but it may have been in the Upper Chamber. A non-signed voting pass does not lead to non-measuring. The request to everyone is to sign the voting pass, but if it is unsigned in the envelope, then the vote still applies. That's the deal, and that's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u33	Thank you. That also brought us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-5.u34	The motions tabled will be put to the vote at the end of the afternoon or at the beginning of the evening.
