ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Amendment of the Public Research Act in connection with current developments in the field of preventive health research (35384). I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. Then we'll start with the first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to have a law treatment here for the second morning in a row. That is sometimes a rather undervalued part of our work, because there is hardly ever mass media attention to it, unless it goes wrong, of course, while laws are very important. I know there's gonna be a lot of preparation time in there for us and for the Secretary of State and his support. So thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. The legal treatment we're discussing is rather complex, so I'm gonna get a quick look at what the People's Research Act is about. The law also changes its name to the Preventive Health Research Act. But first of all, I have a question about the purpose of the law, because that is not entirely clear to me, even after reading the explanatory statement a few times. By way of illustration, yesterday we were here to discuss a law on education. There was a clear problem, namely that the system of offering tests, according to the current Minister, is no longer sustainable. That is where he makes a proposal and then you can exchange views as a Chamber whether you agree with that solution or not. But with this law, I find it much more unclear what the problem is and why this law is now before us. We read that the law creates more freedom of choice for people who want to use preventive health research to protect participants of such research. At the same time, it seems to be making it easier for providers to join, and that seems to be getting worse. The tasks and enforcement capabilities of the IGJ are also being extended, but I read in the explanatory statement that it is not at all certain whether the IGJ will also be strengthened and facilitated in order to be able to do the job properly. I'll get back to you on that. I would really like to hear more about the precise purpose in the answer given by the Secretary of State. That is what we need in order to decide whether or not we are going to agree to this law. Mr. Chairman. This law provides for three categories of preventive health research. The first category is preventive studies in which there is no medical risk and where no serious diseases can be found. These investigations are not subject to any additional requirements, although they are now governed by the law. The second category consists of studies in which acts reserved for BIG-registered caregivers are carried out, or are concerned with research into serious diseases. For these tests you have to apply for a permit or follow a healthcare standard. This also gives the Health Care Inspectorate handles to be able to better maintain, so that the quality is better secured. The third and last category is about preventive research that is offered from a state perspective, such as population surveys on colon cancer, breast cancer and cervical cancer. These may only be offered from the government. We will have a few more questions about that later. In addition, a few smaller things are arranged. It provides, for example, that secondary findings should no longer be shared, that preventive health research into cancer should in principle be possible without additional requirements and that the inspection should be given a stronger role in the enforcement of Category 2 studies. There will also be other requirements for the issue of licences. On all these points we have a few questions to the Secretary of State, because this makes it a complicated interplay, which makes it difficult to weigh and assess whether this law is useful and, above all, necessary. I also wonder who exactly has been helped by this law. Are those people using that research, or are they the commercial providers of preventive research? I think that is an important point. Mr. Chairman. To answer the question, we first look at the purpose of the law. If we understand correctly, the Secretary of State wants to increase choice. This is done in this law by relaxing the granting of a licence. This is done by allowing preventive health research into cancer, without the need for a permit, and by prohibiting it from sharing side-effects with the person who has been investigated, so that as much research as possible can be offered and there is a lot of choice. According to GroenLinks, we need to look much more closely at the quality of the research, for example in preventive research into cancer. In the explanatory statement we can read that according to the cabinet cancer is no longer a disease that is serious and untreatable. It should therefore be possible to carry out preventive investigations, without any additional requirements, at least as long as there is research into forms of cancer that are treatable, and no actions are carried out that are reserved for health insurers. That makes it difficult, not only in the medical field, but also in the ethical field. I can imagine that it is now possible to have preventive research into skin cancer. Someone will look at your skin or see skin cancer. That makes it difficult, because with the naked eye you can see that a spot is suspicious, but you cannot immediately see whether it is cancer or not, and certainly not whether it is a serious form of skin cancer or not. If you let this kind of research happen, there are two things that can happen: or people are told that they might have cancer without the involvement of professional health insurers, or people are told that nothing is going on at all, when it may be. Both cases seem undesirable to us. That is why, despite the fact that cancer is a disease that can be treated better and better, we believe that it is premature for this law to allow everyone to carry out preventive research into cancer. This is a disease in which the prognosis depends very much on the species, type and stage. Research should be of certain quality. As far as we are concerned, we also need to apply for a permit, or we need a standard of care. We have tabled an amendment on this. Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the issue of inspection supervision. In other sectors, too, there is an increasing demand for inspections, while facilitation has sometimes been reduced in recent years. Not long ago, for example, there was still a lot to be done here in the Chamber about the NVWA, the organisation responsible, among other things, for the safety of our food. They couldn't cope with their duties, causing quite a few scandals. So you cannot point one-sidedly at the inspection, because from here there has been a considerable reduction in the inspection in recent years. The tricky thing for public authorities or semi-public organisations is, of course, that they are less easily able to talk out loud or back. The underlying bill gives the Health and Youth Inspectorate more tools to enforce. They only have to do this in case of research that requires a standard of care or a permit. That is, of course, very important. However, in the light of what I have just mentioned, I have a number of questions about this. How does the Secretary of State ensure that there is sufficient knowledge in the IGJ? I know them, among other things, from their reports on youth care institutions. I think they do that very well, but this is quite another branch of sport. How do we ensure that there is sufficient knowledge at the IGJ to be able to maintain properly here? How many different providers of preventive health studies are there about that the IGJ should check? How much time do they expect to spend on that? How much extra money is needed for that? And why is there virtually no mention in the explanatory statement of what the additional tasks will be and what the additional facilitation should be? Mr. Chairman. Where can reporters of wrongdoing actually go? Because if there are more providers, I can imagine that more people will be hurt. I know from various inspections that they cannot deal with all individual reports, but in this case I think it is right that there should be a place where people can report it if they participate in an investigation that is not properly conducted. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another question about usefulness and necessity. Many preventive health studies will soon fall into category 1 of those preventive studies. These investigations are not subject to any further requirements; why should they fall within the scope of this law? What difference does this law make? Are there any preventive investigations that are not allowed under the current regime, but which are allowed if this law is passed? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of State. Then there is the facilitation of the application for a licence. It is proposed to focus on the safety and quality of supply and to reduce the usefulness of research. This means that more choice will be made, but less attention will be paid to quality and perhaps research will also become less useful. How does the Secretary of State see that? It's better to have less research, but it's better to have better quality research. I'd like a reaction to that. How does the Secretary of State see that? Mr. Chairman. Another point, which also affects ethical issues. Because more research into diseases obviously means more diagnoses. The pressure on care will therefore increase, we think. That's also a dilemma. Because, of course, it is very nice when a disease is detected at an early stage by a preventive health study and that a treatment can also be started, but we also know, among other things through the covid crisis, that at the moment thousands and thousands of people are already on waiting lists, people who have been diagnosed, who have to be treated by a doctor and who have to wait until their turn, people whose condition is already causing complaints. There is a very difficult dilemma that we would like to present to the Secretary of State. Because most likely people who have a lot of money are going to make use of these preventive investigations. So that means that because of the thickness of the wallet, if that health research comes from that further research is needed, this group will have access to other research, which we also collectively pay with each other. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if there is a greater gap here between rich and poor. I think that is an important question, also because we know that people who have money generally live longer and healthier lives. I would really like to prevent this law from giving people who have money much easier access to care. Again, of course that's good, but it shouldn't be at the expense of people who have less money to do this kind of research. So I would very much like to see how the Secretary of State sees this dilemma. Isn't it going to widen the gap between rich and poor? How does the Secretary of State see this in the light of the already huge health differences, which fortunately is increasingly being addressed, between people who have a lot of money and those who have less money? Mr. Chairman. There is still a dilemma surrounding healthcare costs. Because extra pressure on the first and second lines also simply brings higher care costs, which we have to fund together, so collectively. How much additional care costs preventative research entails is only the question. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if he has an assessment of that. Are there any calculations of that? Although I can really imagine it's very, very difficult to do that. If so, what does that get out of it? Following on from the question I just asked, I also wonder if it is fair to those who cannot afford all those preventive health studies. I wonder if it's fair that they collectively co-pay to the treatment of a group of people who just have more money. Doesn't this lead to differences in health? Couldn't we have spent that money better to promote healthy food and sports, for example, so as to make all those things that lead to prevention cheaper? Mr. Chairman. I'm about to go to my final points. Social costs and benefits of the underlying bill are difficult to predict. I ask the Secretary of State if it is possible to carry out an extensive evaluation. In the meantime, I have already seen an amendment from the SP that regulates this. We would like this evaluation to take into account the differences in health gains between poor and rich people and also the extent to which this bill widens that gap. And one more point about the cousins. These are diseases that are discovered when one is not specifically looking for them. The proposal prohibits the reporting of ancillary findings, as preventive investigation providers may avoid the obligation of authorisation by producing research results as a side-finding. That feels uncomfortable, because with this you are indeed greatly increasing the offer. But let's say that in an investigation, a medical condition is discovered that one wasn't specifically looking for. Then you can't hide this from that person, I'm asking the Secretary of State, at least not if that person states in advance that he or she would want to know this kind of side-effects? To make it more concrete, the following. I do not know if this example is correct, but suppose that a pretecho is discovered a medical condition in the fetus that was not sought. Does this have to be reported or does this bill strongly prohibit it? I have the impression that the latter is happening. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State, because I think it is really desirable for people to be informed, once again, if they so wish, of parallel findings found in such investigations. Mr. Chairman. We have also seen an amendment by the PvdA proposing that it should not be banned from reporting side-effects and to give people the choice in advance of whether or not they want to hear side-effects. I am also very interested in the appreciation of the Secretary of State for that point. At the same time, I would also like to know what the PvdA amendment is doing with this bill. In fact, I saw many more amendments coming along this morning. I have the impression that this Chamber has done a great deal to change the law. I'm very curious how the Secretary of State sees that. Finally, Mr President. I read that the population survey, the preventive studies on breast cancer, cervical cancer and colon cancer, can only be offered from the government. In principle, I understand that well, but at the same time, the government is failing when it comes to population research into breast cancer. In fact, every two years a mammography has to be made to do this preventive research really well, but the government programme now offers it every three years. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what is the reason for banning population research by other providers in these cases too. Isn't it smart to allow that, but also to ask the researchers to share the data? I understand that you want to have the data in a central place in order to do better research and to have better consequences. Mr President, I am ready. You will hear: we have a lot of questions and dilemmas that affect both the medical and the ethical side. I am very curious about the answers given by the Secretary of State and, of course, about the input of all colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer, who will speak on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prevention is better than cure. Medical prevention is in the spotlight. Given the rapid developments in this area, it is amazing that the Public Research Act dates back to 1992. The aim of the present legislative amendment is, we read, to create more freedom of choice for people who, without having any complaints, want to know what is going on with their health. That is a good idea in itself, if that hand goes hand in hand with guarantees of quality. We have a number of questions and comments on this. The bill is based on three categories of preventive health research. Category 1 concerns the free admission of population studies without medical risk. Category 2 deals with professional standards for population studies with a medical risk and category 3 deals with a permit for population surveys. However, it seems to us that the extension of freedom of choice, which is the aim of the legislative proposal, is aimed in particular at category 1 and, to a lesser extent, at category 2. Is that right? And what exactly is being extended to the freedom of choice in category 3? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Participation in preventive health research is voluntary and therefore falls within the public's own responsibility, but of course the quality of research must be taken into account. This is important not only for the person concerned but for everyone, because treating when it is not necessary has an effect on the cost of care. But don't treat it while there's health benefits to be gained, it does. Shouldn't you therefore better identify which test is useful for whom and when exactly? Mr. Chairman. Population surveys without medical risk are freely permitted in this proposal. This includes, for example, the self-tests. Since corona, these self-tests have been offered and used massively, but we have also seen that complete batches were inadequate or gave wrong results. Those tests would then have to be repeated or reconfirmed by qualified personnel. How does the Secretary of State view these experiences in relation to this bill? I saw a message passing by that Amazon wants to set up a completely new business unit for medical self-tests. This raises the question of how the quality of these tests can be guaranteed. I do not actually read anything about that in this proposal. Why not? Then how is quality guaranteed and can the Secretary of State ensure that this is sufficient? And what kind of helper should the patient actually inform when it comes to a self-test from the supermarket? In this light, can the Secretary of State also respond to today's report that commercial test streets are now focusing massively on STD testing? Mr. Chairman. The more you investigate and test, the more you detect. This is favourable on the one hand, but on the other hand there is also a risk of overtreatment. That is not necessary for the person in question and that is not good for the total care costs either. How exactly is overtreatment prevented if the impact of this bill on costs and workload is not monitored? Is a Nivel investigation every few years, as the Secretary of State points out, not too little? Mr. Chairman. Qualitative preventive research into cancer is incredibly important. The sooner you get there, the better. The Secretary of State proposes that the authorisation requirement for preventive health research into cancer should be abolished unless it is serious and untreatable. What exactly are the consequences of this? Is there sufficient visibility of the quality? And what exactly is this going to look like in practice? Do we get providers asking you to take a picture of your mole to check if you have skin cancer? Does the inspection have any idea of the new suppliers who are likely to enter this new market? In short, are all the advantages and disadvantages well mapped? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the issue of reporting the cousins. That's a tricky dilemma. As far as PVV is concerned, that consideration should lie with the doctor and patient, and not with the government. In our view, the solution chosen by the cabinet, namely a ban on the disclosure of side-effects unless the doctor is guilty, is not the right solution. This does not prevent circumvention of the authorisation requirement, nor is it good for patient care. What exactly is the lack of conscience? And how can a doctor deal with the disadvantages? The Secretary of State goes on to do so in more detail than precisely weigh against the benefits to the person in question? Every human being reacts differently to a particular disease or condition that is diagnosed? Rounding up. There are still a number of questions, as I have just said, about ensuring the quality of the studies in category 1, for example, a self-test. Another example is the question of whether it should not be mapped out which test for who is useful when, and whether better monitoring of the effects of, for example, overtreatment should be carried out. I'll finish with one last question. Can the Secretary of State explain again the state of play regarding the state-of-the-art population surveys and the impact of corona on their progress? We've already received a letter on breast cancer. Can the Secretary of State also comment specifically on the state of the art with regard to cervical cancer and colon cancer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Campen, who will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. A healthy and happy life is surely the greatest good we can have with each other. Personally, as far as I know, I may praise myself with a healthy body, free of pain and free of complaints. Often we realize this invaluable value of health only when we lose or lose that health. I am proud to live in a country where we all have access to the best health care in the world, and where we all contribute to those who call for that care, because anyone who is healthy or feels healthy knows that this call for care could apply to him tomorrow. In this Chamber we often discuss how to keep care available, affordable and accessible for people. Often it is about care that people need at a certain point in time or, as the bill suggests, about "defining disease, conditions and risk indicators based on health complaints." But the present bill focuses on another group. The person to be investigated is, in principle, free of complaints. The old law was adopted in 1992, with the aim of protecting people from the disadvantages and risks of preventive health research. The VVD welcomes the fact that, after a long run-up of no less than six years, this amendment is finally being discussed in the Chamber. Innovation in healthcare is almost impossible to keep up with, certainly not by the government. Light health checks ranging from fitness tests, heart rate monitors and saliva tests to heavier blood tests, echoes and infrared screening require a completely different approach and assessment. These studies differ in nature and gravity, help people make choices in their lifestyle and decide whether or not to consult a health care provider or to reassure them about their health. But, of course, we still have a number of questions and comments, some of which coincide with the previous speakers. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the principles of good care ensure the quality of care in all categories. That sounds like an open door, but we know that there are strict and manageable quality obligations attached to it. Categorisation between research without medical risk, research involving reserved activities and licensing research, we understand that differentiation, especially in view of the original spirit of the law, the developments that are taking place and also the supervisory framework that is now in force. But what does this monitoring and assessment actually look like in practice? We read that in category 1 research providers can choose to ensure the quality of research through standards; so opt for safeguards through standards. Well, that's very nice, of course, but who's going to test whether that provider thinks about this too lightly, avoids regulation, puts research too easily in Category 1? Category 2 states: "Investigates to be designated which, although not restricted, consider that compliance with professional standards is necessary." Well, a good starting point in itself, but who assesses that independently, and how do we know that happens carefully? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The legal quality framework under all categories looks solid, but is extremely complex. How do we prevent investigations, sometimes with great consequences and results, from falling between shore and ship in the assessment and monitoring? And how do we ensure that this coherence is guaranteed, so that people know that they are participating in investigations on which a sound assessment has been based, so that a proper assessment has been carried out? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I looked it up yesterday: no less than 4.3 million invitations sent Population Research Netherlands in 2019 to Dutch people for population studies on breast, cervical or colon cancer. When the old law came into force, cancer was a very serious disease, with a low chance of successful treatment as well as the survival period. The cabinet states that cancer has become a well treatable or chronic disease more often and should therefore no longer be subject to authorisation. How would our colleagues have liked to have read that in a legislative proposal in 1992? And what an achievement of knowing that we can discuss this conclusion today! But those studies, Mr Westerveld, also pointed out that breast, uterine and colon cancers lead to about 31,400 cancer diagnoses every year. And it's nice that the perspective for people is so much better than in 1992, but still a diagnosis of people leads to great anxiety, and also psychological suffering. And there are many forms of cancer. In many cases there are still long, intensive treatments, where healing is not always a certainty. How does the government guarantee that this is still a matter of proper care, guidance and treatment for people, even with an expired licence obligation? And are there any cancers where there is still a requirement for authorisation on the basis of the disease? The independent advice of... I see a colleague on the interrupting microphone, so I'm gonna swallow this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yeah, I saw that too. There is an interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	The VVD, Mr Van Campen, is getting me the words out of my mouth here. Well, that doesn't happen very often, so I think that's a time to mark, so I get up to say that. My question is therefore: if he himself says this in this way, the 'licensing requirement for breast cancer', what would be the objection to simply maintaining that licence requirement, based purely on his own words just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	In this respect, I listened with interest to Mrs Westerveld's speech when it comes to the three major population surveys. It states: could you, if you remove that licence requirement, of course with the guarantee...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That quality is the starting point. But whatever I'm looking for, it's exactly what that permit is about. Is he keeping it really close to the government? I should like to hope that preventive population research that is not subject to authorisation also meets the highest quality and care requirements. So what I really want to avoid is that we are having a target discussion about licensing, but I do want to hear from the Secretary of State how care without the licensing obligation involves the maximum guarantee of quality and good care for people. So I am not quite clear on that either, I say in the direction of Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	What makes the licensing obligation very important, in my view, is to look not only at the individual interest but also at the collective interest. So preventive research adds something to the collective, to society, or only to the individual, even when it comes to costs, risks and, for example, the possibilities and risks of follow-up research? I think that's very important. I am glad that you are doing this in this way, because I really hope that today we can come to the conclusion that we should simply keep this licensing obligation. So I'm very curious to hear from the Secretary of State. Like Mrs Westerveld, I hope that we can maintain this, because I do not know anyone who gets the diagnosis of cancer after an investigation and thinks: this may not be so bad, because it may be a chronic disease. I don't know them. It may be often treatable in practice, but that is certainly not how people experience it. So I think that care should be kept in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	I can only agree with that, including what Mr Hijink says about what such a diagnosis does to people. At the same time, I would also regret that it is a bit of a risk to paraphrase in the spirit of colleagues if, by maintaining the licensing obligation, we miss out on even more diagnoses of parties who may be able to carry out proper investigations, thereby denying people early diagnosis. That is how I understood the government's motivation in the present bill. But let's wait for the Secretary of State's response to that. Mr. Chairman. The independent advice on authorisation is placed with the Health Council. Risks can be overcome, we read. It is proposed to place the safety and quality of the offer at the heart of the granting of a licence. But, in fact, as a result of the interruption debate, what does it mean for safety and quality when there is no longer a licence requirement? Mr. Chairman. While we're talking about these three major population surveys, can the Secretary of State brief us on the delay in these investigations because of corona? Can the health consequences be identified? How is the cabinet going to catch up as quickly as possible? Is the Cabinet prepared to inform the Chamber periodically about this? Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to dwell on the cousins' findings. The wide variety of preventive health studies leads to at least as wide a variety of outcomes. It is also sometimes noted that the investigation was not directed directly. It is not clear how the cabinet intends to deal with these so-called side-effects. The Cabinet states that secondary findings relating to serious and untreatable diseases and diseases should not be reported to the persons concerned, unless the doctor is guilty of this. It is repeatedly mentioned as an example that certain unintended diseases may have an adverse effect on the ability to drive. That is also the only thing we keep reading back, in the statement, in the note on the report, in the response to the advice of the Council of State, but how does this work in practice? Is this about the car ride home from the care facility? Or is it about a car ride that might occur in ten years' time? How are we supposed to imagine that? How far does this conscience go anyway? I could imagine that it's a high standard for a medic to appeal to conscience. In my opinion, you should not set that standard so high, provided that the patient has an interest in it and is, of course, waiting for it yourself. Another argument not to mention unintentionally found diseases is to avoid circumvention of the authorisation requirement by presenting findings of serious and untreatable diseases and diseases as unintentional side-effects. What does this mean in ordinary human language? Surely it shouldn't be the case that the enforcement and supervision are leading to denying people a diagnosis, when they might be waiting for it? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. The Health Council says that parallel findings may come to light in the NIP test and that they should be reported if the pregnant woman chooses to do so. The Council also states that only those results that certainly or very likely cause diseases leading to serious health problems in the child should be reported. Does the Secretary of State, with the VVD, consider that patients should be able to decide for themselves whether to be informed about secondary findings in a preventive health study or in a population study? We read that the RIVM, for example, states that a side effect is almost never serious. But of course you can overcome that with a clear directive from the profession. Let the profession consider that. Let them draw up a directive on this and decide when to share these side-effects with a patient. If that's what he's waiting for, I'll say it again. Mr. Chairman. Last week I visited the Wilhelmina Children's Hospital with colleague Aukje de Vries. There I was allowed to hold a 3D print from a brain of an unborn child. It really only had a diameter of a few millimeters. I am still deeply impressed by what the pediatric surgeon told me about abnormalities and disorders that they can see in life so early, while the child is still in the first weeks of early life. Prenatal screening, which also falls within the scope of this law, is so important for parents to prepare for often difficult choices. Health opportunities of the child after, or perhaps even before, pregnancy are central to this. Earlier this year, my colleague Tellegen tabled a motion requesting the government to examine whether prenatal screening can be classified as regular medical care. Following this motion, the cabinet instructed a research firm to analyse the advantages and disadvantages of the current organisation around prenatal screening in relation to birth care. The scenario in which prenatal screening falls under regular care, and therefore not under RIVM, is explicitly taken into account, as the motion requested. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State when the Chamber is informed about the results of this. Mr President, I shall conclude. This amendment of the law provides freedom of choice for those who want to use preventive health research. It gives us the opportunity to make choices about our lifestyle and whether or not to consult a health care provider, or it reassures us about our health. But we, too, would appreciate an assessment of whether the promises made by this law are actually being complied with. We too have seen the amendment, which we wholeheartedly support. We ask the Secretary of State if the consequences of the healthcare costs can also be taken into account. Because the basis of the present bill is a Panteia study from 2014. It's been quite a while. Can that be taken? Can the choice of people when it comes to lifestyle prevention be taken into account? Is this preventive health research leading to awareness among people, so that heavier care can be avoided further on in second-line care and addressed earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	I notice that the VVD passes very tactically along a very important element for the SP of this law. That is the additional offer of commercial providers made possible by this amendment of the law. We have serious problems with that. We have previously had the discussion in the Chamber about, for example, the totalbodyscan and other forms of preventive research that cost a lot of money, for which people themselves have to pay and whose impact, results, scientific basis and also cost-effectiveness are lacking on all fronts. My question to the VVD, to Mr Van Campen, is: how can it be that the VVD, which always insists on sensible care, with this law actually opens all doors to unwise care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	I do not know whether I agree with the assumptions about the quality of care to which Mr Hijink refers. I don't know. He says that, and I'm aware of that. I don't think people get healthier or better from big system discussions. I do agree with him that care and research must comply with the best quality standards and guidelines, whether offered by public organisations, by health care institutions or by commercial organisations. Hospitals are, of course, also commercial organisations in some sense. We can have long discussions about this, but that is the case. I have asked the Secretary of State a number of critical questions about this. I read about a whole framework in which all these categories are based on laws and regulations. The Wkkgz would no longer make it possible or necessary to introduce an authorisation requirement. That is what I read, but I would like to know whether the monitoring is properly organised and whether the legal and quality framework that lies below is actually being monitored. I think this is more important than we are going to have very fundamental discussions about systems here. No, quality must be met, people must be able to rely on it, and this requires strict and effective supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	My question was not about the system at all. It may be a reflex of the VVD to say that we just want to talk about the healthcare system, but that is not the case. I love doing that, but not always. My question was about cost-effectiveness. That's one of those things the VVD always likes to talk about. The explanatory statement of the Secretary of State himself explains why many forms of preventive investigation are not authorised to provide no scientific basis for cost-effectiveness and quality. This could be a reason not to include new forms of preventive research in the population survey package. If there had been such a basis, we might now have had more preventive research in the population survey, but there is no such basis. On the contrary, the Secretary of State and his predecessors have always said: for example, such a totalbodyscan costs an awful lot of money for those who lie in it, but does not bring us any health benefits as a society. The Health Council also says: all this type of research does not bring health benefits to society. The VVD is always so costly, but how is this liberalisation going to involve so much medicalisation of healthy people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	It will not surprise Mr Hijink that my liberal heart did take a leap in the passages concerning the freedom of choice of people and giving people the opportunity and opportunity to participate in preventive health research. People make up their own mind about that. Technology and science offer people the opportunity to use preventive health research. That is what we have read in the government's proposal in many shapes and sizes. Then people should be able to make use of these opportunities. I would like to say to Mr Hijink that care must be accessible to everyone. It's accessible. Anyone can contact the general practitioner with complaints and concerns, where a conversation and possible referral and treatment take place. The availability and accessibility of the Dutch healthcare system is a great asset.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Hijink, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yeah, rounding it up. The VVD ignores the effects of commercial preventive health research. That's not something that stands on its own, because it has an effect. If someone has been through the scan and for follow-up research, if there is little going on, regular care, which is often the case, will have an effect on the hospitals and the general practitioners. General practitioners also indicate this themselves; we have people coming into our homes who have done research abroad or elsewhere, and so they burden care, while other people who would benefit much more cannot be helped by prevention. That is what I think is the great split in which the VVD is also involved in this law: on the one hand, always insist that care should always be effective and accessible to everyone and, on the other hand, get excited about a law that is going to give a lot of space to nonsensical care. I simply cannot explain that, even from the reasoning of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	Let me say two things about it. You can also reason, as the government does, I am an optimistic person, so I would like to follow that reasoning. Let me then give a hand in the direction of Mr Hijink, which I believe I have already done. He has tabled a fine amendment which calls for an evaluation. I wholeheartedly support that. Let us ask the Secretary of State if he will also take this point, which concerns Mr Hijink. And then we're going to discuss whether the effects are indeed the same when Mr Hijink sketches them or if we do see that much more serious concern can be avoided further down the chain because we'll be there in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	Be there in time, but for the people who can afford it, because that's what my question is about. Even if you put on Mr Van Campen's positive glasses, it is likely that especially those who can afford it will make more use of these preventive health examinations and that they will therefore be referred more often to care paid by all of us, so collectively. Does Mr Van Campen see with us that this may well widen the gap between rich and poor, even when it comes to health benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u21	I would truly find it very undesirable if we came to live in a country where the thickness of your wallet determines whether or not you can qualify for care. I agree with Mrs Westerveld. I also think that we have a healthcare system in the Netherlands where this is not the case. We've got the GP. We have support in the neighborhood where people can speak very closely about care they need. I think that accessibility is important. I would also like to take every step with Mrs Westerveld who contributes to making it more accessible, such as in terms of informing people that they should take a step in the event of complaints. I think we have a very important asset with the large population surveys, provided that people participate in them. But I do not think that because some people do not have the money for it, this should mean that people who may have saved or worked hard to do such a health check are denied that possibility. No, the accessibility of care should never lead to socio-economic inequality, but please do not deny people the opportunities offered by the innovation of care. I'd be sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u22	I understand that point, but we know that regular care is under pressure. Partly because of the corona crisis, thousands of people are now on waiting lists who need help and who now have to wait longer, while doctors say they need treatment. Then, of course, there is a chance that this bill, which does indeed open the doors wide to providers, which may be at the expense of quality, will also raise a few questions in my contribution about people who have saved and have the money to carry out such preventive health research, which will create the gap between rich and poor. That is, by the way, a gap that we already know. We know that people who have less money generally move less and eat less healthy food and that this has everything to do with the wallet. I understand Mr Van Campen's point, but couldn't it be that this bill would unintentionally widen that gap further? I'd like to ask him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u23	I do not believe that, because I believe that we have a very accessible healthcare system, in which anyone who is concerned or has complaints can contact the doctor and is therefore eligible for the care he needs. We have major population surveys in this country, where everyone can participate for free and which I'm proud of. So I think it would be undesirable for this to widen the gap, as Mrs Westerveld fears, but I think that will not be the case in the Netherlands, with the best healthcare system in the world we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u24	Next: you can feel everything that this is going to widen the gap. For who are the chances of doing those preventive investigations? Those are people who have the money for that, not the people who don't have the money for that. We can already see that it is very clearly stated that health inequalities are being increased. Isn't this the possibility of widening that gap? Can Mr Van Campen explain to me how that gap is being bridged with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u25	In my view, this proposal is not intended to bridge socio-economic gaps; in my opinion, it is intended to make the most of the innovation and opportunities that technology offers in healthcare, but to ensure that it is done in an orderly, decent way so that people can trust that it is done in a qualitatively good way. I think that's important. That requires good and strict supervision, and that is why I agree with the idea of this bill. But if you look at the government's underlying argument on the basis of which it comes to those three categories, a 2016 RIVM quickscan, you'll see a whole list of different forms of preventive health research that this includes. It is also about fitness tests in sports clubs, for example. Well, I hadn't thought of that myself, but I am glad that the government thinks that there is an orderly legal framework underneath it and that there can be no abuse of it. So yes, you do have these expensive scans that people can choose to use. I do not know if I would do that myself, I do not think so, but I do think it is important that if they are available, if the technology offers that opportunity, there is proper regulation under it and if people want to spend money on it, whether they have had to save for a very long time or perhaps have that money available immediately, they can trust that it will be done properly and properly. That's what I think this bill's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u26	Of course, it is very good that we have rules on this, but with this bill we also ensure that commercial providers get much more opportunities to make a profit in healthcare. So there's gonna be an incentive to especially advertise for those body scans: go ahead and do that. Everyone wants to be healthy. Who's gonna do that? That's the group of people who have the money for that. So they go after that, if anything comes out, of course also to the general practitioner, but of course there are also things that are not necessary to treat. But I can imagine people saying: something will come out; I still want it to be dealt with. So it provides additional care costs in the regular care. We'll pay them back together, including the people who didn't have the money to do those preemptive investigations. So the premiums and the cost of care go up. So that commercial market is crawling into our regular care. Does Mr Van Campen not see this as a risk too, that the costs of care are going to rise enormously and that the solidarity of the healthcare system is going to be under pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u27	I think it is also inherent in the time when we have so incredibly much information at our disposal. I don't know about Mrs. Kuik, but if my back bothers me, I'll pop up on the Internet and see which direction it can go. I think that's what a lot of Dutch people and a lot of people do. And yes, I will not deny that I have also made a call to the doctor to ask: gee, is it convenient for me to come by? But I think it's better that we just have a net, good legal framework in which to monitor quality, to offer those tests that are so available. I don't think it's impossible to stop those tests; then people might do that across the border. If there are indeed results where there are complaints and there is a need for follow-up studies, people should be able to find a way to name those complaints or, as the legislative proposal rightly states, be reassured so that they do not have to make the course to the general practitioner. This could, of course, also reduce the pressure on the regular care chain. This can also be an effect of the preventive health test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mrs. Kuik, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u29	I don't think we're going to get all along, but I'm going to come back to the issue of the care costs of our system. The risk is that it's going to go up hugely. Of that everyone bears the consequences, so not only the ladies and gentlemen who can pay for the body scans, but everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u31	Does Mr Van Campen see that? And does he see that as a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u32	The government also considers this in the explanatory statement, also in response to questions put by Mrs Kuik in the note on the report. There is a study that states that this is not recognised in general practitioners' practices and that preventive health tests are often a good basis for patients to make the right assessment. If this is not the case and people go to the general practitioner, the general practitioner is quite capable of indicating the results of these tests. If Mrs Kuik is opposed to any other investigation that would undermine that, then I am, of course, very receptive to taking note of it. Finally, Mr President. I mentioned the number of over 4.3 million invitations to the population survey on breast, cervical and colon cancer. Each year, this leads to 31,400 diagnoses in people who are diagnosed with cancer by one of these studies. But out of those over 4.3 million invited, only 2 million were involved in the investigations. That's only 47%. We really want to hear from the cabinet how more can be done to get more participants to attend the population surveys, so to drastically increase participation so that everyone can have a timely diagnosis and a prosperous treatment. We look forward to the Secretary of State's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Hijink, who will speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for book and brochure on health checks. That's not very good Dutch, but I can't help it, because it's a quote. I'll tell you who this quote belongs to. "Thank you for book and brochure on health checks. Many people check their health outside the regular medical circuit. With this they know better what to look for. The advice I remember everywhere is: just go to the doctor if you fear anything." These are, of course, historic words to begin my input into today's debate, because they were the words of the Secretary of State himself, about three years ago, when he received a book from a club whose name I don't remember about health research. I think that the Secretary of State's reaction has struck the nail on the head, because anyone who is concerned about his health or who is suffering from complaints or pain is well advised to go to the GP. Mr. Chairman. The law we are discussing today has a very long history. This was already prepared by VVD Minister Schippers in 2006. In itself, as I say to colleagues, that is a reason in itself to worry and ring the alarm bells. After all, we know what wind was blowing at the Ministry at the time and in part still blowing at the Ministry. That is: to create more space for commerce and more space to make money from people's care and disease. Minister Schippers was also very clear about the purpose of the law currently before us. I quote her: "By restricting licensing, market access for other health checks" she speaks of health checks, extra hip "expanded." This lowers the threshold for offering these health checks." So that was the goal. In drafting this law, creating more space for often commercial research was very important. For example, this was much more important than weighing the social consequences and the usefulness of these investigations. For the SP, that's very striking. There is no research to show that fun scans and bullshit controls contribute to better collective health in our country. And of course it is: in exceptional cases you can find or adapt people's lifestyles. But we rarely hear from the advocates of this kind of commercial health research about the risks of commercial research, for example overdiagnosis and missed diagnoses. Mr. Van Campen just said, "People are comfortable after they've done an investigation." The opposite is true: you're free to come out of an investigation, but it doesn't say anything about what's happening to you next week, it doesn't say anything about your lifestyle. People with a bad lifestyle who get through the scan and then get reassured, think they can continue their bad lifestyle, because the scan was beneficial, right? So it's not that black and white. There is also a risk of overtreatment and of false security. Mr. Chairman. The SP is known as a very strong supporter of prevention, but we see that there are far better ways to encourage this than allowing unnecessary preventive scans for people with a lot of money. For example, invest in more general practitioners so that they have more time to take on their prevention tasks. Give everyone the opportunity to go to the dentist for free. That is another preventive measure to save a lot of long-term care costs and keep people healthier. Those are measures that make sense when it comes to prevention. Population research also belongs in that list as far as the SP is concerned. It is not for nothing that we have objected strongly to restricting screening for breast cancer. Instead of every two years, women over 50 can only participate once every three years in the population survey. As a result, more women will die of breast cancer. That's a very intense conclusion. I know that the Secretary of State shares that conclusion, but we would much rather invest in these effective forms of population research rather than in bullshit. Why is this population survey effective? Because one in seven women is affected by breast cancer. And then you're talking about an important health problem. It is a disease that needs to be treated, and the benefits of screening clearly outweigh its potential disadvantages. In other words, the population survey on breast cancer meets the criteria of Wilson and Jungner and the additional criteria of the World Health Organisation. These criteria concern the severity of the disease, the reliability of research resources and the scientific justification of the research being carried out. What strikes us is that the government seems to choose that these criteria are important, but they do not really matter when it comes to research that people pay themselves. So spend €150 on a DNA analysis of your saliva. We wish you luck with the results. Feel free to scan for €1,000 in a commercial center. Then regular care will take care of the follow-up investigation. But that's not how it works. It is not the case that health research on the free market has no side effects. Both the KNMG, the Federation of Medical Associations, and the Health Council point out that a wider use of preventive health research can lead to more references in regular care and higher costs for society and waiting lists for all patients who need forms of care. Whether commercial health studies improve people's health has not yet been proven. And as the Health Council stated in 2015: "If it doesn't harm, it doesn't" in this case, because there are indeed disadvantages to the use of preventive investigations on people who do not have medical complaints. That is exactly why we as SP have always resisted the general use of the totalbodyscan. It contributes to the medicalization of basically healthy people. Sure, sometimes it hits. That makes sense, too. If you pull enough people through the scan, you'll find something. In Henny Huisman, kidney cancer was found in the study. And he quickly became one of Prescan's most important signposts. That's how these things go. The exception confirms the rule here, but provides a lot of customers for companies that want to make money. I read a piece of a radiotherapist at the AMC. He said it very nicely: in contrast to the success story of a man who is still alive thanks to Prescan, you never hear the story of a man who had a slightly increased prostate value and died from the consequences of an infection he caused when conducting follow-up tests at the hospital. That's exactly the point. It is known from the prostate that a very large number of abnormalities found there will never lead to any health effects. Does that make any kind of preventive investigation nonsense? No, of course not. People who are concerned about their health, have complaints or see certain diseases in their families do well to go to the general practitioner or hospital. In this respect, three years ago, the Secretary of State struck the nail on the head: go with worries or complaints to the GP. Mr. Chairman. The SP notes that this cabinet is full of savings on nonsensical care. I also had a debate on this with Mr Van Campen of the VVD. But that idea is completely abandoned when it comes to offering and expanding the range of commercial health research. This law is going to place unproven medical research in the Public Research Act. The law gets a different name, but the fact remains that it's being messed up. Where in hospitals everything is being done to stop unnecessary research and nonsensical treatments, this law is now opening the door to new groups of patients who do not rely on concrete complaints in hospitals, but on a commercial test to resort to additional care. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how he is getting out of this gap from one side year in, year out talking about sensible care and on the other side here expanding the room for senseless care. Why does the Secretary of State legitimize unproven preventive medical research, while the Cabinet says on all fronts that it wants to counter medicalisation? From general practitioners and doctors in the second line, contrary to what the cabinet claims, sounds do indeed come from people who report for a supplementary examination after a health examination. The Secretary of State seems to recognize this himself when he says in the explanatory statement that the role of the GP as gatekeeper is quite well taken up. Yeah, I'm sure you will. Someone comes to the GP with a rash and the GP says that the person has done a bullshit investigation or maybe has something to do with it. That's the role of gatekeeper. But the question is: do we want an overloaded general practitioner to be overburdened with the general practitioners? Do we want to increase the pressure on general practitioners even further, while we want them to be able to pay more attention to prevention for the patients they are not seeing today? Is the GP the gatekeeper between preventive research and regular health care, even when it comes to commercial research? We have very serious objections to this. We think that this doctor should be able to do his job. There is also a danger of displacement, which affects society as a whole. General practitioners are more concerned with people who didn't actually need research, rather than spending their time on others. The risks and additional costs of the additional research and the additional pressure on care should not be downplayed as far as SP is concerned. How does the cabinet ensure that general practitioners and doctors in the second line receive the means to accommodate this potential new group of people? How will the Secretary of State avoid divisive situations when people with a well-stocked wallet go through an expensive commercial investigation to make extra use of regular care? Can he also respond to the statements made by Minister Schippers five years ago? She said: an increase in the use of health checks can lead to medicalisation and seizure of the capacity of care and it can affect the cost of care. It is therefore a real risk, which Mrs Schippers of the VVD was also concerned about at the time. Then, of course, the question arises: why should we even start? Mr. Chairman. With the classification as the Secretary of State wishes, prevention is increasingly released to the market and commerce. This is what we're going to cross a bridge again. Now commercial parties are given more room to earn from prevention. In the context of sensible and economical care, the general practitioner must talk the blisters on the tongue to make it clear to people that a scan or blood test is actually pointless, but on the other hand they are overtaken by patients who have already had such a test done for a lot of money. I cannot imagine that this Secretary of State really thinks this is a good idea from his own point of view. Maybe that's a more personal note. Because that's not how we know him. I can imagine that perhaps five years ago this was conceived by the VVD, certainly listening to the speech just now, but that it is also put forward by this govern ment, I can imagine a lot less. Mr. Chairman. The government wants to place the various forms of preventive investigation in three categories. In the first category everything is actually allowed as long as there are no medical risks. In the second category, professional standards, a form of self-regulation, apply if there is a medical risk. In the third category, a permit is required for population surveys in which serious diseases can be identified. The SP is not clear how the government wants to deal with this classification. How is health studies actually handled through these three categories? Should a totalbodyscan not necessarily be subject to authorisation, because there is a possibility that serious and possibly untreatable diseases may be detected? I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State feels about this. The Secretary of State believes that self-regulation would allow a totalbodyscan to be classified in the second category, as I read in response to the questions we have asked about the law, in my opinion, questions from the CDA. I wonder why the Secretary of State chooses this. We are considering tabling an amendment on this point, but we still need to look at how we do it technically. This was actually better regulated in the consultation version of this law. It also included forms of research in which serious abnormalities can be found and serious diseases can be detected. If you're pulling someone all the way through the scan, that's by definition how I see it. We would say: make sure that these forms of research remain subject to authorisation, also because you want to maintain all guarantees of quality. Mr. Chairman. We have seen enough examples of self-regulation and where this can lead, how commercial interests outweigh the medical interests and interests of society. I also think that the cabinet has far too high expectations of the professional guidelines that companies and sectors will develop in order to avoid licensing. We are also very concerned about this because the KNMG, the federation of professional associations of doctors, has withdrawn from the preventive medical examination directive. Research carried out by the KNMG showed that commercial providers of population research do not provide sufficient balanced information on the usefulness, necessity and risks of the research that people do. How does the Secretary of State respond to the withdrawal of the KNMG from this directive? Is this not a great warning to us that we are at great risk if we abandon the licence and leave it to self-regulation? The sector is making a directive and, of course, wants to make money. It's mostly commercial research, so if you want to work without a license, make sure you have a directive that you're gonna follow or not. But that doesn't have much to do with the quality. Mr. Chairman. Who determines the value and importance of the directive? How does the Secretary of State respond to KNMG's comments that RIVM now seems to be responsible for providing information on preventive investigations rather than the providers themselves? People should turn to RIVM if they want to know what health research can be of interest to them. Mr. Chairman. Then the removal of the licence requirement. This bill removes the licensing requirement for various types of preventive investigation, including the preventive investigation into cancer. We have just talked about this, and we think that is unwise. We do not believe that this is a good development because screening must avoid harming the interests or health of individual citizens or society. Why a permit is important, the Secretary of State has actually already appointed himself, also in answering the questions that have been asked, because he writes about the current situation: "If there is already another application, it is generally rejected because the criteria of scientific soundness and positive benefit/risk ratio cannot be met." So why didn't we have more licensed investigations than we have now? Because, according to the Secretary of State himself, they cannot resist the test of criticism, namely the test of whether they are scientifically sound and whether the utility-risk ratio is in order. The proposal now being put forward by the Secretary of State will, on the contrary, lead to more research being offered that this test of scientific validity and a positive benefit-risk ratio cannot withstand, and that is a bad thing. The SP also does not see any objection to maintaining the authorisation requirement for preventive cancer research. I would like to ask the Secretary of State exactly what the problem is. And why is it a problem that the Health Council continues to advise on the usefulness and necessity of new forms of preventive investigation? The Secretary of State also changes the application for the permit, if I have read it correctly. Providers no longer need to demonstrate that preventive health research at collective level brings health benefits. Does this not threaten our demand, is it not a deterioration in the quality of the population research in order to allow more commercial, individual research? Mr President, I'm almost at the end, so I'm gonna hurry up. I've been through time, I see. The big question is, of course, whether this bill is ultimately an improvement or a deterioration. The Secretary of State states that the introduction of professional directives and self-regulation will improve quality. The SP sees the opposite, namely that requirements and authorisation for careful research are exchanged for more commercial nonsense studies that do not contribute to public health. My question is: how will this be monitored? We do indeed have an amendment ready for an evaluation. If the law is to succeed, then we think it is very important that its effects are monitored. Of course, I hope the law doesn't make it. I also see opportunities for this, so I hope that we can do our best to do so today, but if it were to continue, I hope that we will follow it very critically. Then, of course, why does the Secretary of State choose to incorporate the new requirements and possibilities for individual research into a law on population research? Should the Secretary of State not have made a separate law on individual preventive health research instead of actually abolishing the Public Research Act? Because that's what happens. The Health Council was also crystal clear: from a scientific point of view, the benefits cannot be demonstrated. Of the population survey we're doing right now, there are those benefits. Research also shows that no health benefits can be expected at population level, in terms of reduced mortality or reduced disease. However, there will of course be situations where a serious disease is also found in an expensive commercial investigation. It's possible. But if such research does not comply with scientific standards, and a good relationship between utility and risk, then such research does not belong in our view in the Public Research Act. Finally, Mr President. The SP believes that this law opens the door to more commercial forms of health research. More trade and false security risk being legitimised because they are given a place in the law. In preventive health research, commercial interests must never outweigh the interests of patients and society. That is why we remain in favour of licensing and more and targeted prevention to prevent disease, because prevention is ultimately better than cure, but careful and not commercial. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you. I call Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the Labour Party. The reason I let Mr Hijink speak is that this is a legal procedure. Then I cannot and will not restrict your speaking time. At the same time, we do have a busy agenda ahead today. There are more debates on the agenda. The time to close this debate is 2.15 p.m. Having said that, I give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It feels a bit like a maiden speech after all. It's the first time I've been here today. I even had to look. My grandfather was a farmhand. I'm not sure if he would have necessarily liked this back wall, but he doesn't have to. Art can inspire and irritate. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. You can symbolically throw mud in a debate, or: whoever is without sin, threw the first piece of shit. But most of all, today I had to think very much about earths, literally earths and make sure that you take good care of yourself, that you stay close to yourself. This is extremely important in the context of health. That is why I would like to wish former Minister Van Ark health from this place. Mr. Chairman. Of course, taking care of yourself has everything to do with preventive research. Population surveys in any form should contribute to keeping people healthy, reduce disease burden and reduce the risk of death as much as possible. On that basis, we are making a brave attempt to properly assess this bill. I can largely agree with many of the questions that have been asked. They're showing a little bit of the dilemma. We all serve the purpose of good preventive public research, but how do you prevent that from leading to incredibly much unrest and referrals to care that is not necessary at all, overtreatments? How do we ensure that there is no division between people who can pay for research and those who can't? How do we ensure that it remains of sufficient quality? I believe that several speakers have expressed very legitimate concerns about this today. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the purpose and the quality. If you leave more space to commercial providers, quality can come under pressure, because that means price versus importance and purpose served by it. I believe that several speakers have raised legitimate questions about this. If I may just give an example of a self-test: this morning I took a Kruidvat self-test, because I think it is important that I can sit here again today. I have no complaints, but I assume that this is of sufficient quality, but I do not really know and cannot test it either. This applies to a lot of self-test facilities, which are actually only getting bigger. Kruidvat has more of these kinds of tests, but that also applies if you open the market more to commercial providers to do scans and investigations. Is there enough space and are there sufficient guarantees to test that quality? Does the inspection have enough room for that? Corona has shown that a number of test firms weren't so close to their duty of care and their duty of privacy, and that a number of things went wrong. Is there enough body and are there enough people and standards to intervene? How do you make sure that price doesn't become an incentive to counter incredibly many offers? Those are sincere concerns I have. It is not for nothing that Mr Hijink says that he prefers to opt for safety and good quality standards, and that he wants to make much more use of that licensing obligation. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld has also raised specific questions. Do we have enough people at the inspection to make that happen? Do we have enough people in the first line, the gatekeepers, the GPs, to receive any referrals? How are things like other preventive research, such as active help in the fight against obesity, lifestyle prevention, prevention development in hospitals or primary care, which actually involves money rather than making it more effective to start treatment? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of questions and comments about the population survey itself. We have tabled two amendments on this subject ourselves. One concerns side-effects, which have already been mentioned by several speakers. It seems to me very bad that if I go through a mammography or a swab and find something else, this cannot be reported, while there may be serious health risks. This also applies, for example, to women who have implants and are therefore at increased risk. If there are side effects there, for example a leak, then you'd want that reported. I will explain it briefly now, but the amendment has been there for some time and belongs to Mrs Ploumen; I will have it converted into my own name. It's about making it possible to report side-effects. Several speakers have already addressed this today. The second amendment aims to make it possible for general management measures to identify categories for which the population survey is also used as a control moment. Then I think specifically of women with breast implants, because we now know that the risks are decent. Monitoring of non-leakage is essential. Wouldn't that moment of screening also be the time to build in a check? Mr. Chairman. A second concern...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u37	There is an interruption by Mr Hijink first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u38	Yeah, about that amendment. I understand the meaning of the PvdA very well, but I wonder if two routes are not going to get mixed up here. If there is indeed a leakage, then you hope that it will be found as soon as possible. But isn't that the responsibility of whoever implanted those things? How do you say that better? Do you have to shift that to preventive investigations, or do you have to leave the responsibility where it should be, namely with the person who did the surgery? If we were to do this, I'd be afraid the threshold to bring in crap would just go down. Perhaps that will only happen more easily, because people think: people go to the general practitioner if there are complaints and with this amendment in their pocket they can still be picked out of the population survey. Doesn't that explain responsibility to the wrong side?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u39	Many women have taken implants without being sufficiently aware of the risks. Not every woman does that out of some kind of beauty ideal. There are also women who do this from a reconstruction point of view. Especially in those cases, I think it is very logical that you introduce such a mammography as a control moment, especially with the somewhat outdated implants, the risks of which are similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u40	Yes, but it hasn't been said that a problem with that is found earlier. Shouldn't the person who did the surgery continue to be in control? The research into breast cancer takes place once every three years. It hasn't been said that there's nothing wrong in the years between. Of course, it's about false security and knowing what you're up to. If you have implants and you're worried about them, do you have to wait until the population survey, or do you want the person who did your surgery, the person who is your doctor, to take his responsibility and provide a check-up, in any period or period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u41	A whole group of women have had reconstructions done because of a cancer history. They have sometimes received implants that they did not know the risks about at the time and about which they have not been sufficiently informed. This has been done by the providers you are talking about. On the contrary, I want to avoid unnecessary damage to these women. I see this as a moment to do so. There has been a time when it was very modern and hip to put anything in it, but I believe that there is a growing awareness. It's your choice as a woman or a man. There are also men who do it. But you have to be aware of the risks. So I think it is a preventive and therefore a general interest, because the risks are just the same. Furthermore, further research is needed. I would also like to call on the cabinet to do so. Money is needed to conduct specific research into the risks of breast cancer implants. That too is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u42	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u43	It is always a consideration, but I make this assessment, and that is why I have tabled this amendment. Mr. Chairman. I have two other questions about the population survey. Mr Hijink already made that point. Mrs Westerveld and others probably said the same thing. You should do a breast cancer study every two years. Because of the rising pressure on care and corona, it has risen to three years. I do not find that reassuring. I know we are not reaching all the women yet, but I would like to reassure the women we are reaching and who want to participate in such an investigation. If we don't even have that in order, what's our basis? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I've already talked about the research I'd like to do. I think I forgot one point of relevance, but I don't know about that anymore, so I'll be there in a minute. I think I'm done with that, Mr. Chairman. I think there have been very good and fair questions, so I'm going to get back to my chair and wait for the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Laan, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you, Mr President. In my story I will deal with the ban on side-findings, health differences, quality of life and information. Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Netherlands deserves the chance of a healthy life and prevention can help, because health studies can help to make certain choices that improve your health. For example, a cholesterol test can help you eat healthier, reducing your risk of having a heart attack or stroke. More and more of these preventive health studies are being carried out in the Netherlands and people are eager to use them. That's what it turns out to be. We do wonder how this law contributes to reducing health inequalities and how it can counteract inequality of opportunity. We can imagine that certain commercial health studies are simply too expensive for many people. If you live six-high behind, you don't have the money to run an expensive investigation, or you might not even have room in your head to think about that. So one finds his way to the test easier than the other. Then it may be that a select group of people, who did have that expensive research carried out, are more likely to get into regular care, but others do not get that chance. This could lead to unfair health inequalities. How does the Secretary of State view this? Is this law now the tool for reducing health differences? I don't see it yet. I have, of course, just followed the discussion and I am very sensitive to it. Because if this law is not the instrument for reducing these differences, then we must also pronounce it as a Chamber, realize it and take it into account in our decision-making. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go into the content of the law. I agree with the categories outlined by the government in the law. My group welcomes the fact that there is a licence requirement for certain preventive health tests. The debate that Mrs Westerveld has just brought up on the licensing of cancer is a real brainbreaker for me. I really do know where no one in my neighborhood stays calm when the message comes: you have cancer. There's always grief and panic. I mean, by brainbreaker, I can't believe the government is proposing to let it be licensed when it's about such a sad message. So that's a brainbreaker for me. I'm waiting for the response. The obligation to carry out a licence will make it possible to assess quality and ensure effectiveness and safety. It is therefore important not to circumvent an authorisation requirement. Basically, a health study must be designed in such a way that it really only looks at the disease or risk factor you are actually looking for. But it may happen that you find something else by chance, or a coincidence. You weren't looking for it, but it was seen by the doctor anyway. Then I understand that we do not want to circumvent a licensing requirement through co-findings, so we want to prevent people from going to the RIVM breast cancer research because they have already been informed elsewhere. However, the Cabinet does intend to lay down in the law that it is forbidden for the aid worker to pass on this secondary finding to the participant in the investigation. However, we are very much concerned about whether this medicine is the right one. I would like to raise three points. As a basis, D66 considers it essential that the aid provider, together with the patient, the participant, make prior agreements on the study, on how to deal with it when co-finding is found. That's all the practice. Doctors already have guidelines on how to deal with cousins. We believe that this ban will put the Secretary of State very much on the doctor's chair. It may unduly reflect suspicion of aid workers and the patient. Patients' associations tell me that this ban is not a good idea and doctors have also told me that they are not in favour of it. Then I wonder who this is a good idea for. Is this means proportionate to the objective of avoiding circumvention of licences? Have sufficient alternatives been considered? Can the Secretary of State indicate how often the licensing obligation would be circumvented by means of ancillary findings? In short, how big is this problem that we want to tackle with a ban? Then there is the second point. The provision on this side finding further states that the prohibition concerns serious untreatable diseases or risk indicators. But when is something untreatable? Think of a form of Alzheimer's, dementia. That's terrible. It is serious and untreatable, but it may be a conclusion that it is good to know that you are going to get it. In such a serious incurable disease, as a patient, you still want to make certain choices to promote the quality of your life. We think the quality of life is very important, so I ask the Secretary of State: what is untreatable now? Is that curative or is it meant to mean that there are no treatments at all, not even palliative? In short, knowing can in some cases yield more than not knowing. The third point. This provision on secondary findings also states that the participant can still be informed if the aid provider comes into conscience. That has been discussed before. At the same time, the cabinet has also indicated that afterward strict controls are being carried out to ensure that the aid has acted correctly. Doesn't a doctor come to the discovery of a serious untreatable disease in conscience anyway? Do doctors feel free to decide when they are in conscience, or when they should remain silent? We are really asking critical questions, because we are very concerned about the possible prohibition of telling these side-effects. We have therefore also tabled an amendment to delete this ban and at the same time come up with an alternative. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the information to which participants in preventive health research are entitled. This is the crux of preventive research, because in order to determine whether I want to participate in such an investigation I want to be as well informed as possible. What exactly is the point of the investigation? I would like to know what physical or psychological risks are involved, but also whether there are alternatives. I want to know how reliable it is. And what happens if I don't do anything? With all this information, I, the patient, can then make an informed choice to participate or not. According to the Secretary of State, all this is already covered by existing legislation, the WGBO. However, we do not think that this is enough, because the Health Council said in 2015 that this current legislation offers some protection, but not enough. The KNMG, the doctor's federation, states in its guidelines evaluation that we need to regulate legislation to protect citizens from risks arising from preventive medical research. However, we are now even getting a category, category 1, for which there will be no frameworks at all, and I really see a risk for the position of the participant. Market participants will sell their investigations, but any research may involve risks. In addition, in 2015, the Health Council also advised a national screening committee for this category, but nothing was done about it. Well, since I am also concerned about this, I am tabling an amendment to ensure that there is a hook to enable people to make better information provision also with a level playing field to make an informed choice. One of the aims of this law is to reduce or prevent unnecessary follow-up costs by these health studies. But it has not been sufficiently demonstrated whether this is the case, and whether it might get worse. The Secretary of State intends to repeat the Nivel study periodically, but how often is "periodic" and what is then taken away? I actually agree with what Mr Hijink also mentioned in the evaluation. A very good point, which we will also support. Because I think that we should look both at follow-up costs and at the question: how often was follow-up care actually unnecessary? I would like to point out that I am considering a motion, but I think I can agree with Mr Hijink's amendment. And we really should not want to see a lot of disproportionate and unnecessary concern on the board of the already overloaded professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u46	I believe that the points raised by Mrs Van der Laan are justified. My question is: shouldn't you know much better in front of us what we can expect, rather than starting and then having to say "ai, it really has led to more care costs," which I think, in my view, is also to be expected? Because yes, it is very difficult to turn it all back again. So shouldn't we have much more sharpness in the front, which is real in the expectations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u47	Yeah, I think that's a good point. I'm still not clear on whether I can go with this law. I have also asked a set of questions about other subjects and other dilemmas. This is one of them, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u48	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u49	Yes. Finally, I hope to get answers to a number of questions that have not yet been answered. In the second category, those are the studies where there is a medical risk, they work with professional standards, but for me it is unclear what a "professional standard" is. What's that supposed to mean? When is a professional standard a "professional standard"? Can anyone just draw it up? It has also been put forward before. Can a company set it up itself? We don't want the butcher to approve his own meat, do we? In addition, something about unborn children, or fetuses. These are also governed by the law. What tests should I think about? Is this about tests where you also treat the unborn child? That was my last question. I'll see if I've forgotten something. My story is complete, Chairman. Thank you. I've asked a lot of questions. I'm hoping for a good answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you. There's another interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u51	On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 17 I have a substantive question. Mrs Van der Laan rightly states in the explanatory statement that non-communication of secondary findings undermines patients' right to information. Then I read in the amendment, but perhaps I read it wrongly that this gives providers the opportunity to tell side-effects. Shouldn't it be turned around, so you're just going to have the investigation done, so the patient or the client, I don't know exactly how it's supposed to be, give you the right to indicate that he wants to know if there are any side-effects? Or am I reading the amendment wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u52	You read the amendment as you interpret it. I can follow your question. The law now proposes to prohibit the sharing of side-effects by the doctor. That's what I've been focusing on, from the perspective that the patient is entitled to information. So if we still have to look for words or language in that area, I am certainly open to that, because that is what I mean. I can also agree with the doctor that I don't want to know if he's doing a coincidence. That is also the patient's right, for example. It's up to the patient to say. It's not the doctor himself who decides: okay, then I can tell you. So the patient's right to information is very important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u53	Perhaps that is the case, but sometimes it is a bit of a puzzle with the amendments we get. The law's pretty technical. But at least I'm glad we're sharing the goal. I'm gonna take a good look at what it says and see if I've got it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you. Finally, in this first term of office, Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. I have heard a lot of critical questions and I must honestly say that we, as CDA, are also quite critical of this change of law, because I do wonder exactly what problem we are solving in the core. I can see it's gonna be a lot of trouble. In other words, in addition to the regular population surveys, a market is facilitated for preventive medical research in a commercial setting. Where this can lead to, the covid pandemic has also shown: cowboy behavior over the back of people who are seriously concerned about their health. If you don't feel well, have a knee or have a place to worry about, you can go to the doctor to have a look at it. Why don't you go to the doctor's office and have them take a look at it? I have also spoken to a number of doctors about how they look at this amendment of the law. It was widely stated that scans were made for additional examination, after physical examination, i.e. on medical indication. Lukraak scans do because people want it, is not useful, because regularly things are discovered that are irrelevant but have consequences and even lead to unnecessary medical interventions, and therefore additional care costs. One doctor even said, "If you're okay, you're not tested enough." So that's the medicalization of healthy people. Preventive research in certain high-risk groups is something else, because then you actually have a medical indication and you focus on looking for something preventively. Having a health check performed without any complaints or proven risk factors brings significant risks to citizens and leads to significant health costs, the Health Council says. The Health Council also indicates that there is no health benefit at population level, in terms of reduced mortality or disease. So I ask again: what exactly is the problem solving this legislative amendment? The KWF site states that potential disadvantages of body scans, such as overdiagnosis, overtreatment and unnecessary psychological stress outweigh their potential benefits. Again, people who fear that they are at increased risk of getting cancer, for example because that disease is common in their family, can consult with their doctor if specific research is needed. And yes, of course, we all want to prevent us from getting sick. Health is number one. But whether we always act on that is the question. That is why we need to invest in a healthy lifestyle and environment, for example in combating smoking, in a smoke-free generation. We have done so over the past few years, but as far as the CDA is concerned, this can be even more ambitious. But this is not about an active lifestyle, about working for your health or about focusing research on a risk group. It's about health research, about a snapshot. What does this do to our concern? As far as the CDA is concerned, good, affordable care is a basic right for all, with a system aimed at mutual solidarity. As a CDA, we choose sensible care, with the patient at the forefront. We want to get rid of wrong financial incentives and production targets, insofar as they only lead to unnecessary treatments. Care is human work. It is not a market on which profits are made and where the rights of the strongest/richest apply. The coalition agreement states: "The cabinet wants to prevent money that is intended for care, not for the benefit of care. It will examine how this can be achieved in a sustainable way within the system." As soon as there is a profit to be made in healthcare, doesn't that include incentives? I'll ask the Secretary of State if any thought has been given to that. Will the health care system and solidarity in care not be under pressure when healthcare costs increase significantly as a result of detecting all kinds of possible conditions that may in reality never affect them? People then come to the GP with a printout of the scan to get it fixed anyway. The pressure will then end up on the second line in the care. Solidarity is put under pressure if only people who can pay for it have these preventive tests carried out, while the costs of the follow-up are borne by the collective and premiums are raised. Then about the effect on the care costs when it comes to the body scan. The government plans to classify the totalbodyscan into the second category. This makes scans possible if there is a professional standard or a quality standard and if there is no search for serious, untreatable conditions. But by definition, that could be a bycatch, right? From a scan like this, couldn't it be that serious, untreatable conditions are visible? How can the government say that it can fall into the second category? Can the Secretary of State also comment on the opinion that the Health Council wrote in 2015? It states that the possibility of totalbodyscans meeting the criteria for responsible screening is low, and that a licence requirement for offering them therefore remains necessary. Why does the bill deviate from this advice from the Health Council? On what basis does the Secretary of State have confidence in the self-regulatory capacity of the commercial sector to achieve good quality guidelines and supervision? The bill also provides for a safety net provision. Bans can still be imposed if the costs for regular care become too high. I wonder how we're gonna keep up with that. So where's that point? At the time it takes place in practice, is it feasible at all to prohibit such a scan, or is it better to be ahead of that problem? And how does the Secretary of State intend to protect people from makeability and false security? It is well-earned by commercial parties. I can see the Tell Sell commercials. It also responds to people's feelings, as if a certain security could be offered, while it is just a snapshot and, of course, it also amounts to false security. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join the population surveys, which are compromised. At least I see a risk for that. There is currently a shortage of staff, which makes some population surveys less frequent. This has already been referred to. Breast cancer research takes place once every three years, instead of once every two years. How is it prevented, by allowing private parties to conduct population surveys, from removing additional staff from care? This is at the expense of the population surveys, which we consider so important and effective. And look at the behavior of commercial parties in the covid crisis. Cowboy behavior can also have a negative effect on ordinary population studies, for example those on colon cancer or cervical cancer. Confidence in government investigations could be seriously damaged. So I ask the Secretary of State again: why should it be a good idea, and to solve what problem, to open the door further to the commercial market and to let it mix with the supply of care, and thereby allow flexibility? Finally, I come to the health differences. The Health Council recently showed us very clearly how deep health differences are growing. I wonder to what extent this law contributes to closing that gap, or, should I say, to widening that gap? Because the solidarity of the healthcare system will be put under pressure if the happy few can pay for preventive health studies that result from which all kinds of follow-up studies are carried out while this comes within the regular care cost for everyone. If this does not open Pandora's box to the commercial market, I ask the Secretary of State. I do see some improvement positions for the IGZ, but I think the question is important. The CDA is in favour of innovation, but in combination with safety. We are therefore in favour of a licence requirement, because it must be careful. Furthermore, we consider the health differences to be an important factor to be taken into account. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mrs Kuik is very critical of the present law, but also particularly of the provision of preventive health studies. In my own contribution, I pointed out the wide variety of studies, from questionnaires on the Internet to blood tests. Is Mrs Kuik actually calling for a ban on all those preventive health tests that are available?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u57	No, certainly not, certainly not! I would add that innovation is, of course, beautiful, but under certain conditions. If, for example, body scans were no longer subject to licensing requirements, which are now simply subject to certain conditions, we would open the door to a commercial market that would mix with regular care, which would put pressure on our solidarity-based health system. See, that you have to invest heavily in prevention, that's what I'm saying: join me. I would also mention the smoke-free generation and the further reduction of drug use. However, in this type of testing, I do think that you should offer some sort of protection to the user, including in relation to the offer within our solidarity-based health system. The Health Councils are in favour of having these permit conditions very sharp, and that leaves this proposal too much to be desired.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u58	That's what we're gonna talk to the Secretary of State about. I also have a number of questions myself, but this is an attempt by the government to provide a legal quality framework for the availability of preventive health research. Whether or not she has succeeded is something we can differ on. Mr Kuik concluded by saying that the CDA is also for innovation in healthcare. I am curious to know what Mrs Kuik is about the position of these investigations, which can help a lot of people gain insight into their lifestyle and whether you are on the right path or whether you might need follow-up research and treatment to get healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u59	It must be about sensible care, which I already mentioned in our play. The Health Council indicates that this is not the case with, for example, those body scans, in the sense that it produces more health effects. Of course, this may mean something for an individual, but I think sensible care is an important condition, also to ensure that our system remains affordable and that everyone in the basic care can receive good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u60	Finally. Then let us listen with interest how the Secretary of State convinces Mr Kuik, in the hope that this legal basis can alleviate her concerns. At least I hear from the CDA that there is room for those tests, which I think a lot of people would have been helped with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u61	We are making a trade-off in the sense that it must be a matter of sensible concern. Moreover, we must not widen the gap between people. I'm really worried about that when I read this proposal. I see in particular that there are more opportunities for people with a large scholarship, which can simply increase the division there. We also have to take into account the protection of the patient. So I'm curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you. This has put an end to the first term of office. I see Mr Hijink, perhaps for an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make an order proposal. A lot of questions have been asked to the Secretary of State about this law. Many amendments have also been tabled which are quite technical in nature. There are also amendments in the making, I know, among several colleagues. So I actually wanted to suggest that we do not continue to deal with this law today and that we ask the Secretary of State to respond in writing to the small 10,000 questions that have been asked so that we can take them carefully, and that we proceed at a later date. 'Cause otherwise I'm not gonna be okay for 3:00 a.m. tonight. I also want it to be done carefully; I am afraid that we will not be able to do so if we continue now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u64	For an order proposal, you need a majority to decide on it. We're gonna listen to what members think of that. First of all, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u65	It seems to me to be a real proposal. Many questions have been asked and, of course, we are also in favour of careful legislation. So let's do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u66	I didn't realize it in advance, but over and over again during the debate I thought, "How are we going to do this?" That is why I wholeheartedly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u67	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u68	In the light of the relaxed face of the Secretary of State, I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mrs. Maeijer, different microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u70	Also support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u71	Also support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u72	Good. Then I conclude that there is a majority in favour of Mr Hijink's proposal of order in order to respond at another time. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. The suggestion has been made to reply in writing, but I leave that to the department, to the secretary of state, or to the members of parliament who, in a procedural meeting, may or may not decide to do so after an order proposal. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u73	I also support the request to do so in writing, apart from the more ethical issues. The Secretary of State does feel that way, so I don't think I need to explain that orally. And the rest indeed in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u74	I even see the Secretary of State raise a thumb. Then it's gonna be okay. I'm suspending the treatment of this bill. It will be prosecuted at a later date. The emphasis on careful decision-making is, of course, very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u75	Then we shall suspend this sitting until 1.45 p.m.
