ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	I welcome everyone: the spokesmen, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. And I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff, the first speaker on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. It could've been really nice by now. The virus that entered our country in March last year could have been beaten within a year. A solid lockdown from December has gotten that original virus quite well underneath. And we could have talked about a lot more relaxation if that annoying, much more contagious, British variant hadn't turned up. That's an extra blow, even for morale. And that means that known measures, as we're used to, are now reducing the virus less than they did before. That means we need more action, and even a curfew. That also means for people who suffer from the measures, who suffer longer from the misery, and more suffering for everyone, if you suffer from either the virus itself or the measures we have to take to get the virus underneath. At the same time, we can see that vaccination works. More than a million shots are now in place. And where, unfortunately, contamination is increasing all over the country now, this in nursing homes is declining considerably. That's good, that's exactly as planned. And so we often feel that we should be able to do more. But there's that feeling before the facts. Mr. Chairman. After a year, for entrepreneurs, it's no longer "just getting your teeth together and going through bad times," but watching your whole life's work fall over. Even billions of aid packages cannot always do that. So it's not surprising that, the longer it takes, we're going to look wider and wider than just the virus control, and we're going to weigh things differently, and we're going to weigh these aspects more heavily in the choices we make. So now we also want to take more risk with the virus to give ourselves more space, to give entrepreneurs more chance to make something of it, and to reduce mental damage to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	But, yeah, if you do something, do it right, and don't come up with half-baked measures. Which entrepreneur, what shopkeeper would it be worth to have two people per floor by appointment... I mean, who makes this crazy up? Two people per floor... I mean, that doesn't make you richer, that doesn't make your debts go away, that doesn't solve your financial problems. And what about the catering business? I know that this sector is also close to your heart. This sector is constantly being put on the lowest ceiling in order to be eligible for relaxation. I think they're even going to court right now to challenge the state, when we all know that there are a lot of good protocols in that sector, so they can already be opened responsibly. As far as we're concerned, they didn't even need to be closed, but if you don't even go along with it... They have responsible protocols so they could at least open now. Why don't you tell the shopkeepers we're doing well? Instead of two per floor by appointment... And again, your bankruptcy is often avoided, because you really don't have any sales. And why are we gonna let the hospitality business go to hell like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	The smaller the store, the more it's gonna help you. That also means: the bigger your store, the more you think: I had room for more, for more people and more sales. It doesn't help compared to opening; that was of course much nicer. It does help to stay close and just click-and-collect. There's something to say for what Mr. Wilders wants, that you're just waiting for everything to happen. But it has to be later, because that space is just not there when you look at the virus; the number of infections increases. Terraces where everything happens responsibly also have an effect on the number of infections. Not because that terrace owner or that pub owner is doing something wrong, or that visitor, but because it's just more movements, more people going there, more people in the same place, more risk, more chance for the virus to spread. I find it very painful. I will also go into the catering sector in more detail later in my contribution. But I advocated correctly a few weeks ago: let's not wait until we have enough balance so that you can take big steps, although that might be possible. Then yesterday we would have had the message "nothing can happen," and in a week or four maybe "a store can open." Then I think, if you compare it to open, of course, this isn't what you want. If you compare it to what it's like now, with just click-and-collect, it's still a step that hopefully can offer something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	At least that step isn't there for the hospitality industry. There's zero step for the catering business. I also blame the cabinet for forgetting the catering industry every time. Isn't it crazy for words to say that such a big sector where I know how many people work now has to go to court? Again, those are not the most recalcitrants. Those are very reasonable people. You've met them many times. I've met them a lot, too. They also come, as you say, with responsible plans. Again, the movements... the sun is about to shine. It seems already, just like last weekend. A lot of people go outside. Friend and enemy now agree that the risk of infection outside is virtually nil. So also with those movements when the weather gets better, which is lucky now, the risk is much smaller. So the movements towards that terrace, to that restaurant then or to that store, are already a lot less risky in the outdoors than it was in winter. The sectors have... That is why I find it so annoying, because these are not irresponsible sectors. The hospitality industry has moved heaven and earth to come up with professional, responsible plans to show that they can do it and that it doesn't have to lead to high infections, especially when the sun shines. You know, I don't agree with what happens to the shops, but as you say, something is happening there. I don't think it's enough, but for the hospitality industry, nothing happens. What can we do for the catering industry? When does the VVD say, "We're not gonna wait anymore. We're gonna take the first steps. That's what we're gonna do tomorrow. We're not gonna wait until half the sector goes bankrupt."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Wilders is right that it is not the catering entrepreneurs who are causing torrential contamination. It's not like that activity is so special. Yeah, all of us with no distance, packed up in a nightclub dancing: if one or two infected people walk in between them, it's gonna make the infections go up a lot. But the problem isn't that simple. If something is responsible in itself, it means that the risk is less. But it's all a bunch of risks that add up. In that sum, I understand there's no room for it yet. I want them open. To be honest, I've said it on the phone before. I want them open, but I accept that we can't do it now. That's kind of painful. If I see the park full with us in Breda, I also think: everyone might be better regulated on the terrace. But I also know that on those beautiful days when the terraces are full, the park is also full. It's not that people... that's why it's such a beautiful park. That's why those terraces are so beautiful. That's why it's such a great city. That's why people come a long way. When you open the terraces, it is not so that you put the people from the park on the terrace. That's why more people are coming. Even if you do that responsibly, you pile up little risks on each other that you can't have. If you look only at the virus, I am also thinking of this morning's briefing and do not allow other aspects to be taken into account, you would not be doing these relaxations. But it is precisely those other aspects that are going to count more heavily the longer it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	Now the image is created that gives the Dutch cabinet more freedom, but that is a very big sham movement. Okay, there's something substantial going on for the hairdressers and the contact professions, because they can get back to work. But for the rest... again, I resist the image that something is happening. In shops two men per floor by appointment: it is really three times nothing. Again, the catering industry has made protocols. You're not responding to that. They put a lot of time and effort into that. They can now open, demonstrably without leading to more infections. There is also a difference between now and the coming months, and November and December in the cold, in which everyone in the car... Why can't people just ride a bike to a terrace at a restaurant, now or next week? The chance of infections is... Suppose, you live in Breda and you want to go on a Saturday bike to that park of yours or sit on a terrace, regulated and well, with all rules and protocols. Nothing! There's zero risk if you do that way! Why can't I? Why are you abandoning the catering industry so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	I have responded extensively to that. Responsible means with an acceptable or small risk, but there is no zero risk. There's no such thing. If we could have shaped it like this, we wouldn't have done all this. Honestly, you won't hear me shouting that the Cabinet is giving people freedom now. No, the freedom we have, the little steps we take, are not freedom. There is also no jubilation at all: look, we are going to relax. Just looking at the numbers, you might want to say that it would be best to continue. But you're also dealing with other things, such as the mental consequences and consequences for entrepreneurs, which you're trying to relax. So you're trying to get other things to matter. Quite honestly: in the end, it is not here that we decide what happens to the virus and the infections, but how people behave; that has a much greater impact. There are people who have calculated for themselves that if we were all very faithful to all the basic rules, you would have to have much less restrictions. But if 25% of the people who are positive and infected... I know the anecdotes, too. Family members of mine got infected because an employee with a positive test on his pocket, who had just corona, thought: I feel nothing and just go to work. Go, three others infected. If too many people continue to do so, we do it to ourselves that we need measures such as the hospitality closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. Vaccinating makes the effects on the elderly and vulnerable less dramatic, and the pressure on care less dramatic in the numbers, but behind each figure is still a dramatic incident and a dramatic death hidden, the loss of a loved one or the need to fight for your life on the ic. Corona is also still a long-term, perhaps even chronic, condition that also affects young people. As a group, we accept an extension of the curfew, also because we prefer to offer the little bit of space that is now available to entrepreneurs and students through the relaxations that can now be done. We do realize that we are participating in a choice that will probably make the third wave a little higher than if we didn't and wouldn't give that space. As a result, it will become more exciting on the ic's and the pressure on care will be higher than if we kept it as it was or even stronger in a lockdown. Mr. Chairman. I would like to deal with three points: firstly, the hospitality sector. My colleague Pieter Heerma will also comment on this. We're gonna hang out here. We all want it, as I said to Mr Wilders, but you can't just open all the terraces responsibly now, I think. Fortunately, the sector has certainly thought carefully, with advance reservations and registrations, not too many people at one table, cough screens, a distance of at least 1.5 metres, consistently disinfecting and preventing busy start-up streets, to which local authority should contribute, with strict enforcement. Is the cabinet prepared to look together with the catering industry and the mayors to see what is feasible and acceptable, and whether these support packages are still working enough? Many catering entrepreneurs use the aid to keep their business from going bankrupt, but then they don't know where to pay the mortgage. The second point relates to this. It piles up: entrepreneurs, especially in the catering industry, use the support packages for their business and have to pay the mortgage with borrowed money from friends and family. On 1 March the TONK is opened again a nice abbreviation for this. I read on the site that if you make an application on March 1st, you can also get a grant for January and February. If you apply for it on March 2, I assume that's still true, so it doesn't all have to be in one day. I should also like to hope that the cabinet is well aware of the Van Weyenberg motion adopted, so that the amount that is now reserved for it should not be seen as a hard limit after which municipalities should say to people: I would have liked to give it to you, but it is gone. I also hope that the generosity advocated in the motion adopted will find its way to the accountability instructions which will soon be sent to the municipalities, probably by the Ministry of Finance, with guidelines on how to use that TONK. The TONK is here to help people. Let's do that, then. Mr. Chairman. Finally, buying remotely. We've been talking about that for a while, so I'll be brief. There are larger shops with a lot of different entrances, which are actually de facto set up as a lot of different shops. The opportunity now offered is a good basis, but is the cabinet prepared to look at what else is possible safely and responsibly in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is increasingly fed up with the failing Corona approach of this cabinet and the clumsiness of the Prime Minister, and not without reason. Over the past year, we have not only lost our freedom, but we have also witnessed unprecedented blunders, with a lack of protective equipment, a failing test and vaccination policy, the data breach at the GGD and the use of the wrong law for curfew. While friend and enemy now recognize that the risk of contamination in the outdoors is virtually nil, people last weekend, when the weather was beautiful and they wanted to get some fresh air in the sun, were confronted with closed places throughout the country. Because Mark Rutte's government not only says that people should stay home from nine o'clock in the evening, but also makes it impossible for families to walk outside the park during the day if it gets a bit more crowded. It's too bizarre for words. And now we're getting a few crumbs thrown in when it comes to loosening things up. Students are allowed to go to school one day a week. Shops are allowed to receive two people per floor by appointment; how do you make this crazy up? The catering industry remains firmly closed and the curfew of which Rutte promised to abolish it first, continues to exist. What untrustworthyness again! Another broken promise. Why shouldn't hairdressers and other contact professions be allowed to open again from today? Why do they have to wait a week? Mr. Chairman. The Rutte I cabinet is completely out of control when it comes to dealing with corona. A week ago, we had about the hardest lockdown in the world. And now, the elections are approaching and the VVD that drops in the polls is trying to evoke the image that we're getting our freedom back, but that's all deception, because the Netherlands isn't opening at all. The Netherlands has also missed the boat terribly because of that failing corona policy. Of course, we should have started the voluntary vaccination of people who are now the most frequently on the ic. On average 64, 65 years old, an underlying disease such as heart failure, lung disease and diabetes, because that group of voluntary vaccination works. In Israel, the chance that someone who has been voluntarily vaccinated will end up on the ic has decreased by 98.9%. Count out your winnings. It is truly godly that there is no beginning of a plan to voluntarily vaccinate people between 65 and 80 years of age with medical indication here in the Netherlands. We also missed the boat when it comes to our economy. The hospitality business didn't have to close at all. We saw that the number of infections just moved to the home visit. The shops didn't have to close. They too could simply comply with the basic rules. Why doesn't the catering business stay closed? Why do the terraces stay closed? Why are shops allowed to receive only two people per floor? It's easy for Prime Minister Rutte and the ministers to talk. They receive their salary at the end of the month, but all those catering entrepreneurs and all those shopkeepers who still can't or barely open have that luxury. They lose their income, their reserves and their savings. It is very understandable that the hospitality industry is suing the Dutch State. I sincerely hope that they will be right and that they will stop pouring you a cup of coffee for the rest of your life, Mr. Prime Minister, and that you will have to ride the thermos home every day. Mr. Chairman. There can be much more open, for example by testing much more low-threshold. For large events, restaurants and cafes, an easy-to-access bladder test can be a solution, because then companies and the catering industry can open even without protocols. If enough of them are already available, I ask the cabinet. I saw Minister De Jonge on a photo "I think it was at the GGD in Amsterdam "with a bladder device that indicated in two seconds whether or not someone was infected." I understand that a lot of caterers would love to have such a device right now because they can open even without protocols. I didn't hear about it after that picture. Does the Minister know if those devices are sufficiently available to those entrepreneurs? I'm rounding up. We're being fooled. The so-called freedoms that Rutte is returning to our country is rumbling in the margins. My appeal to the Prime Minister is: open the Netherlands responsibly, don't forget the catering industry, don't forget the shopkeepers, don't forget the freedom of the Dutch. The Netherlands wants its freedom back. Give them back that freedom now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Society craves a little more air. And everywhere there is also the question: is it possible to keep it up? For combating the spread of this virus requires the reduction of contact moments, but that is quite unnatural for people, because our nature is bound by these contact moments. The relaxation announced by the cabinet yesterday responds to the need to get a little more strain in order to maintain it. At the same time, we must remain vigilant because we also want to avoid an extra corona peak. I therefore understand the caution from the cabinet, and also the frequently-heard question also this morning in almost all newspapers, whether this is actually possible. My first question is therefore: how will the cabinet keep its finger on the pulse in the next few weeks to see if the pressure on the ic's and on the care becomes too high? What would happen if that were the case? There will now be more room for young people and for sports among young people. I think that's wise and necessary. We have also asked for this in previous debates, precisely because of the well-being of young people and to prevent further delays in education. There will also be more room for the retail trade and for contact professions. That is very important for them, and I think it is also important for the economy. I very much understand the frustration of SMEs over the last few weeks when they see that supermarkets and online retailers are doing some kind of mission creep and are going to sell more and more products that are normally their source of income. I have previously called on the big online retailers and supermarkets not to do this. Does the government see the possibility of asking for more solidarity from the companies which, in this crazy time, started to make a lot more profit and turnover, where other companies lost their total turnover? Higher education and the hospitality sector are not now being relaxed. However, in the letter we received last night, we read that the cabinet for the decision-making on 8 March is going to look at how careful steps can be taken in that higher education and the catering industry. What is the cabinet thinking about and what can we expect around 8 March? Specifically with regard to the catering industry, I have a question about the terraces. Mr Dijkhoff has just referred to this. Because yes, all protocols have been made. But whoever went out in the last spring weekend, and people have done so many times, they saw that it was fine, whether it was in a park or on the beach. That was fine, except for those places where those take-away counters were. And there arose some sort of hanging group terraces, where people sat next to each other on benches or on walls. And that's where it was really crowded. Isn't the careful opening of the terraces a possibility? On a terrace you can regulate it much better. I agree with Mr Dijkhoff that there is also a risk of discharge. You gotta keep an eye on that. But isn't it safer and better to regulate there than on those walls where people are sitting now? How does the cabinet intend to look at this in the decision-making on 8 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u15	I don't get it. Did you just say the cabinet should look at people sitting on walls? Can't people sit on walls? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u16	If that's what I said, that was certainly not what I meant to say. I believe that I can now hear Mr Klaver confirm that you mainly reflected a creative interpretation of my words. Whether it's at a beach tent or at those newsstands in parks, those are the places where last weekend people were pulling together. People would stand there and sit down. And then if you looked aside, there was an empty terrace, where those same people might have been much safer, regulated and remote. If we observe that with each other, will the Cabinet not consider towards 8 March whether opening those terraces can contribute to the smarter regulation and keep it more distance than what you see on those walls? That's my question. So it's not just a plea to sit on walls with each other. We see that happening and we have the question whether it can be safer on terraces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u17	Yet I am very happy that these people have been sitting on those walls, because that's why the CDA now has the good idea to just open those terraces. The CDA says if you don't open those terraces, all these people will be sitting on a wall together. If I understand Mr Heerma correctly, he says: on a terrace all this can happen regulated in a normal way. Why can't we just do that now? Then why do we have to do that again March 8th? Now you have a good idea. Well, that's not the first time. Let me say it nicely: you have a good idea. And then you'll have to wait until March 8. Why can't we just do that from next week or from this week? The sun is shining, it's gonna be nice weather. It's nice weather. Look outside! People are probably back on that wall now. What do you want? That those people are back on that wall tomorrow or on a terrace?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u18	What do you want? Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u19	I am sorry that I know that I am going to give an answer, and Mr Wilders is going to withdraw the compliment I have just given. That is usually the style Mr Wilders uses in these debates. But unfortunately, I'm gonna have to bring that up on my own. This is because Mr Dijkhoff has just said that this virus is there. That British variant is dangerous and therefore I do not think it is sensible to open up anything, as Mr Wilders wants. You're looking for a way to give some more room to each other. I will be the last to say, as people do, that the Netherlands is open again. The Netherlands is far from open. We need to look together to see how we can carefully take small steps that both give more space and be sensible. In that context, I understand the hospitality business hasn't opened now. I think and see that the use of terraces has the risk of suction, but also that the potential in places such as beach entrances and parks can lead to more spread and distance. Then the knife cuts both ways. I do not have the argument that this is certainly the case, but I do have that impression. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u20	Let us therefore confine ourselves to that on which we can agree. It was a good idea. I'm not gonna let that go. It was a great idea. I would therefore like to come to business with you. You say that in the context of the fight against corona it is better that people are not sitting on that CDA wall, but that people are just sitting on a terrace, that they can sit there regulated instead of on that wall of yours. Then my reaction is: what a good proposal. But yes, the weather is nice now and there are people on that wall again. Then why shouldn't we do it now? Why don't you suggest that? Perhaps together we could table a motion to ask the cabinet to open the nearby terrace in the context of the fight against corona wherever there is a wall where people sit. It's a great proposal. I embrace that and I'll make you a proposal as someone from an opposition party. I hear that Mr GroenLinks is going to support that. So there could be a majority just to do that. Are you in for that, not to wait but to just do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u21	I have already indicated that I think it is sensible and understandable not to open this now. I call for this to be explicitly considered in the direction of 8 March. I do not rule out the possibility of tabling a motion on this subject in the second term. I'd like to wait and see what the cabinet has to say. And for the rest: a compliment from Mr Wilders is not given weekly. I'm having a good day anyway. Mr. Chairman. I would like to move on to my last two points. The first has to do with communication. The Prime Minister has repeatedly stated in these debates that there is little more comment on crisis times than on communication. I'm gonna say something about communication anyway. My question is whether it would not help if communication over time was more unambiguous on some points. Mr Wilders is right. I am in favour of this and, on the basis of everything I have said in previous debates, I should like to say that the curfew is being extended so that there is a little more room for education. Only, if the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that it is a bad measure that he wants to get off first, it is not surprising that people get angry and frustrated if that does not happen afterwards. It is a choice that can be supported on behalf of my group. That is what we have said in previous debates. But clearly communicating about this does help. The same is true of the relaxations. Last Thursday it was said that there is no room for relaxation at all. Yesterday, at a meeting at ONL, it was suggested that the roadmap is being released at the moment. When I read the letter, my impression is not that the road map is being released. It's about the increases. In the right column, the fourth column, "very heavy," there are increases. Some of them are reversed. That is not the same as letting go of the road map. However, the Prime Minister suggested this. I'd like a reaction to that. My final point. Just one sentence, because I know I'm over my time. Last weekend, I heard Mr Segers ask, I think it was in the Reformatorisch Dagblad (Reformatorisch Dagblad) whether churches and community centers could not also be included in the field labs. I think that is a very good question and I would like to support it. I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u22	Thank you. I'm curious about the motion on the wall, Mr. Heerma and Mr. Wilders. I give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Daily contamination rates are still high and care about a new wave in hospitals is not gone. Yet over the past few weeks it became clear that for many people the rack is out. The economy's having a hard time. More than half of young people are mentally more difficult. There are more and more suggestions as to how things might be different. Planning agencies are talking about a crucial phase; a phase in which there is a need for a different weighting between virus control on the one hand and societal effects on the other. D66 supports that plea. We have been advocating this balance for some time now. The cabinet has indicated that in subsequent decisions not only to seek advice from the OMT, but also to take structural account of the opinions of the planning agencies and others. That is wise, because it is only by weighing up all sides of this crisis that we can sustain it. Mr. Chairman. I get a lot of messages from entrepreneurs, parents and vulnerable people. Much of the cry for help comes from young people and single people. I want to address them specifically. You will feel lonely by the visitor's rules and curfew, the online lessons are getting more and more unbearable and the walls of the room or studio you live in are coming at you. That's heavy. I am right to be asked by these people through social media: can't it be otherwise? My answer is yes. I think there's another way. Because despite the infections the secondary schools and the MBOs open again and sports are again limited. That gives us all a little air. But why not also higher education in addition to MBO? With what additional measures can this be done? Why not also outside sports over 27 years or the gyms open under strict conditions so that everyone can work on a healthy lifestyle? And there it was about taking food or drink and getting close together in the park, but not opening the terraces at a meter and a half? When can we do that? I am asking this not only on behalf of myself or my group, but also on behalf of all those people who sometimes do not like it anymore. Let's pay more attention to them. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister wanted to make an appointment with the Netherlands last night. But I think many Dutch people are also wondering whether they can keep up with their part of the agreements, because measures are often changed unexpectedly. Promises about testing, vaccinating and curfew, which would be reversed first, have not been fulfilled. As a result, people and entrepreneurs feel that a clear strategy is lacking. That leads to confusion and incomprehension. I therefore call on the Cabinet to be more predictable, because for the time being we are not rid of the virus. We have to learn to live with corona. Other countries show that it is possible. So Israel shows us that the results of vaccination are amazing. In Europe, Denmark is piercing. They also make increasing use of tests. I read in the cabinet letter that there will soon be an app for a test certificate. I think that's a good development. But how does the Minister look at the Danish example of a proof stating both your vaccination status, your test status and your immune status? We must do everything we can to restore the freedoms of as many people as possible in the coming months. Can the cabinet around the testing also become a little more concrete than last night's letter? When is testing part of the relaxations? For example, when can a theatre be opened again if they have a good test policy at the front door? When are the quick tests going to be self-evident? How can we make much better use of the enormous capacity of the GGDs? Because at the moment only one fifth of the test capacity is used there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you. Oh, Mr Segers has a question for you, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u25	Did I hear Mr. Jetten asking for evidence of vaccination? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u26	Yes. I think there are several ways in which people might be able to get more freedoms back in the coming period. Partly this can be done by making good agreements with sectors about how to open responsibly. But the question also arises is whether you will have a vaccination, with a negative test or because you are immune because you have already had the virus, you will also have faster access to events and other meetings. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at the steps that countries such as Israel and Denmark are taking in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u27	I myself happened to be at the 5 Hours Show yesterday, where I got a quick test and, indeed, a proof that I was negative. That was a beautiful setting. In tests, I think that goes less far than vaccination and therefore: vaccination coercion. This Chamber has repeatedly stated that it does not want to distinguish between people who have been vaccinated or not. The fact that other countries do that is their responsibility. Precisely because it could undermine the willingness to be vaccinated if there is compulsion behind it, that leads to suspicion. So for very pragmatic reasons alone, but as far as I am concerned also for more fundamental reasons, you should be very reluctant to do so, especially as a liberal party. That's why I'm asking if we really need to go that way. I question that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u28	That is one of the more difficult questions for the coming months. I have never participated in a very principled statement in this debate on this subject. As far as I am concerned, there will never be any imposition of vaccination, because people go over their own bodies and can decide for themselves whether to put that syringe or not. But you can see now that for almost a year we have handed in a very large part of our freedoms because of the corona restrictive measures. I'm looking for ways in which we can get some of those freedoms back. And then I do see that negative test result as a way to make all kinds of events, theatres and conferences possible again. But I have been triggered by other countries that also consider immune status or vaccination status. D66 considers it important that we also make very clear at some point what the services you should always be able to claim, even without a negative test, without vaccination or without immunity because you have already had the virus once. I cannot imagine you being denied access to a public building or public transport, for example, because these are basic services that we all need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u29	I think you should first distinguish between proof of testing and vaccination, because such a test is less invasive than vaccination. Two. The Chamber has ruled on it. Three. It is a matter of principle, because it is indeed about physical integrity and access to society. So it goes a long way. Four. Finally, I would like to point out that vaccination readiness has increased from 50% in the autumn to 80% now, also because there is freedom. Then I'd think very carefully again if you really should daydream about possible urge. Is that really effective? We are all against compulsion, but with such evidence it can turn out very quickly to urge. I have reservations about it in principle, but I think that it can almost also work counter-productively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u30	It is, of course, very nice that vaccination will increase considerably in any case. I think that is also because more information is available about the vaccines and because we now see that the first Dutch people who have been vaccinated are doing well. I do not call on the cabinet to follow the Danish example immediately, but I do think that we should continue to raise the question, because it is a continuous search for ways to give more space and air to society. And I don't want to rule anything out in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mr. Chairman. It's been a year since the virus entered the Netherlands. In that year we met a lockdown and the mental damage of that lockdown is in no way underestimated. I therefore understand why yesterday the cabinet said: perhaps we should take more risks. It is a plea that my group has made on several occasions. It is then a question of the area in which we take these risks. What is the most important thing for us as a society? That is not just a political choice, because we have also asked the planning agencies to look into it. You'll see that priority education is number one. We know that we cannot keep education close for much longer. That is why my question to the cabinet is: why hasn't the cabinet chosen to open the higher education system and the upper secondary education system? And when I say "open," I'm not talking about opening it up again. We know that, but it should be possible to open up again in the same way as in secondary education. That is incredibly important! The messages I receive from students who have been out of physical education for so long and the blows that fall there are so great that I think that additional steps need to be taken there. It is good that we are talking about what risks we want to take as a society, because the price of a lockdown is not free. But we also need to be careful to speak only of a lockdown versus easing. Mr Heerma said that we have to look at what can be justified, but if we are very honest, we should say: at the moment, relaxations are not possible responsibly, for example given what it will do with ic capacity. Yet we say that there are other reasons why we consider this very important. That is why my group has been talking about the importance of a test society for months now, for more than six months. Because there's something between relaxing and staying hard in lockdown. There's a difference between allowing a little more in a store and making sure we're finally working on a real test society. What does that mean? By now, many scientists have calculated, among others by two scientists from the OMT, Kluytmans and Bonten, that we could get the R down by 0.3 if we quickly tested the whole of the Netherlands each month. Then we could get it back under 1 in the current situation. That's another way to fight the virus than proceed to a lockdown measure like curfew. Why doesn't the Cabinet choose that? How many tests are currently stored in the Netherlands? I really don't think the Netherlands can handle an even longer lockdown. Yeah, we can look at a loosening more or less, but that's not gonna get us there. I am very pleased that we are now agreeing to open secondary education by one day a week, but that must be scaled up very quickly, within a month, to a much greater opening. The same applies to higher education. You really need tests for that. Greater steps need to be taken in this regard. The Prime Minister says I'd like to make an appointment with you. An appointment comes from both sides. Yeah, people need to stick to the rules better. We have been in this terrible situation for a year and, to be honest, I think that the Netherlands is doing incredibly well. But the government has to deliver, too. Well, then I'm thinking about that test society. That's, I think, the conversation we should be having mostly with each other. Before you know it we end up in wall management: not all terraces open, but only the terraces in places where there is a wall. That's the micromanagement we might have to stay away from. Testing is the way forward. Finally, Mr President. There's one other problem. We've been in a lockdown for so long. We're out of reserves. We look very much at what it means for companies, but we have a lot of self-employed people in this country who are not eligible for the Tozo because of the partner test. These people have spent the last ten months trying to keep their heads above water, but reserves are running out and debts are running out. So I really think it's time for that partner test to go off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u33	I had the feeling that Mr. Klaver was at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u34	According to my time, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u35	I'll have extra time. Mr Klaver wants more room for education. For my understanding, does Mr Klaver want to do something other than not? I've seen him tweet that he doesn't like nail studios himself. Or does he say that we have to add that and then accept a slightly higher risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u36	If I had to make the choice with the space that exists, I would have chosen education. My proposal would be to open up education with what is now available. The cabinet says this has almost no effect. That's what the OMT says about the contact professions. In that case, I believe that higher education should at least be open again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u37	Okay, so that comes with it. I understand what you are saying about the contact professions and the OMT, but higher education, of course, has an effect, and that brings with it risks. But that's a trade-off; that's okay. About the test society, I heard you say: why doesn't the cabinet choose that? Do you mean why the cabinet doesn't choose "yet"? I read in the letter that it is coming, that it will be ready in March and that it will be operational in April. Maybe we share that April sounds a little bit further than we had hoped. But do you have the idea that the cabinet makes the wrong choice and has to make another choice on the content? Or do you think it takes too long and want to see if there is any acceleration possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u38	Yeah, the second, that gear, I want it anyway. I've read the right things in a lot of letters, but it's always paper. You should probably speed it up. Then there is the second point, on content. It focuses on what it could mean for events such as sporting events and events in the cultural sector. I am very pleased with that, but I think it could play an even greater role, for example for the catering industry. Just for the record, I'm not saying that testing is the solution that causes us to suddenly run out of mouth caps. I guess with a test society, dancing in a nightclub isn't gonna be in it for a while. But there are all kinds of other parts of the hospitality industry in which these tests could make a big contribution. I think the cabinet is very reluctant to do so, constantly pointing to all the risks involved. We're at a time when everything is at risk. I think that when it comes to testing and all the pilots that are there with it, we should extend that further. One annoyance, when it comes to education. I think we're seeing very positive results from that pilot, which I've read about it. Please, expand it and very quickly. Those are the things I'm looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u39	I agree with Mr Klaver. A conference wasn't on my top ten list of nice things I could love to do again. I noticed that in that field labcongres five people were infected, but no complaints had been identified in advance and that there were no infections at the event. I share Mr Klaver's wish. It's never gonna be so successful, these labs. There will be relapses and there will be risks. The question of whether there is any acceleration in that, I can follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u40	That's it. We really need to take further steps to get where I want to get out of. Of course, I do that myself when I say that education is important to me. There are also people who consider a terrace near walls more important. It's very legitimate that we bring that all forward, but before you know it, we're all gonna hang our wishes here when we actually need a different strategy, and that's that test society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet seems to be a bit off track when it comes to the crisis approach of the coronavirus. We're going from press conference to press conference. We're looking for a plan and perspective, but we don't see it. What is likely to arise from this is that, in any case, there seems to be some sort of cow-trading about the measures. I can see that a little bit is happening here in the debate today. According to SP, that's not good. At the same time, after we had a partying minister earlier, we now see an indoor skating minister, while so many people crave to be able to work out indoors, but they shouldn't. All in all, that doesn't give us any confidence. I wonder if it's the election fever that dominates here or if they just don't remember. Trust also decreases because we saw earlier the clumsy, the legal clumsy, around the curfew, the data breach at the GGD and the vaccination strategy in which the wrong vaccine was wagered and mistakes were made. As a result, confidence in the crisis approach is decreasing and we had hoped that at this very moment, even on the day when the RIVM announced the third wave, the cabinet would come up with a better story, with a clearer strategy. What we see now is that promises are also not being kept. The promise, for example, that a rather drastic measure such as curfew would be the first one to go off. Why is that, I ask the cabinet. We now have the rather strange situation that really far-reaching measures have to be taken, such as the limited visit at home you can still receive only one person at home and that we have to be inside from 9 p.m., but that you can go to the HEMA during the day to buy a toaster or to buy new kitchen equipment. You can't follow that. I would also like to talk today about the social consequences of this crisis for many people, the support packages. We heard the Prime Minister say it at the press conference and we heard it here today in this debate: more air is needed for entrepreneurs. That's what the SP thinks. The question is whether this cabinet itself does not say that the aid packages as they are at present are not really sufficient. Because if that's the reason for relaxing economic activities while we still have such freedom-limiting measures, I'll just mention them once more: one visitor at home, the curfew, the SP finds that difficult to explain. Should we not, therefore, broaden the support packages for those entrepreneurs further? The SP has recently made proposals for sector-specific support. That was voted down by two votes. We will make these proposals again today. The SP has proposed to stop the super-unrighteous partner test. That proposal has also been voted down and we will make that proposal again today. 'Cause there's a lot of people getting into trouble. And I hear the cabinet so little about that. Read this morning's report that single people, students are reporting more and more to the food bank. The food bank, Mr. Rutte! That's where people have to go who lose their jobs in the corona crisis. They must now report to the food bank. Why do I hear the cabinet so little about that? And what can we do for these people? 'Cause it's super unfair, isn't it? Take that partner test. If you're both a social worker and your partner has an income, you won't get any support. That's super unfair, isn't it? It's like you don't have two households based on two people's incomes. Those people are getting into trouble. Finally, I would like to say a few words about care, about our care. 'Cause we're gonna have to rebuild it. We've seen what ten years of VVD has done. We've seen hospitals shut down, emergency rooms closed down. We've seen tens of thousands of carers lose their jobs. We want a new development plan for care to be put in place so that we are ready for a next crisis. We should not continue on the line of the VVD, of further downsizing our care, but we should start investing in our care again. Because now we all see how extremely important that is for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr. Chairman. The arbitrariness reigns. That is the only conclusion we can draw from this cabinet's corona policy. The levels of contagion and hospitalisation remain consistently high, but are still being relaxed. The curfew would be withdrawn as the first of the measures, but it is being continued again. The massage parlors open, but the universities and colleges remain completely closed. Experts warn that the government's strategy cannot be followed and that this reduces the level of support. That's serious. There's no plan and no perspective. How? First of all... Vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate. If you can believe some of us, we should be glad that we're now suddenly in the middle of something while we're all in the back. But of course, the middle moot is completely inadequate. It's just going way too slow. Are you really going to do everything in your power to prick every vaccine? We are still working on protocols for pivoting, something that should have been arranged weeks ago. How is that possible? Two. Follow a followable strategy. You have to be honest about what you can and can't do. Only present a roadmap if it is followed. Do not make promises about relaxing measures if they are not complied with. Make us all part of the considerations that are being made, in terms of health, in terms of economy and in terms of well-being. Third. Choose education. There really needs to be a perspective for students who haven't had physical education in a very long time. Provide alternative locations where physical education can be provided in a safe manner. Help schools, help universities. Invest in additional hygiene and ventilation measures in existing buildings. And why hasn't that been done much earlier? Fourth. Prepare the Netherlands for the time to come. It's springtime, the parks are full. The cabinet should not be surprised, or the people, blame us all again when we go out and sit on walls. Now think about how we're going into that phase. What are the possibilities with terraces, sports and recreation? And let municipalities make plans for that now. Fifthly, a social recovery plan is needed for the Netherlands. There's really no time to lose. The long-term effects of corona are huge: contradictions are growing, inequality is increasing. That while the virus will be among us for a while. So break open the Prevention Agreement to finally invest heavily in healthier life with food and movement. Come up with a plan of action to deal with the corona debts, especially for entrepreneurs. Look actively for people who need help and who don't know the way. Get help with income loss, invest in employment. There's a lot possible. It's a matter of doing. Come on, let's go. Mr. Chairman. We are in a crucial phase, because we still live with corona, but we also want to go to a life without corona and we want that life without corona and after corona to be a life with freedom and equal opportunities for all of us. But in this cabinet, arbitrariness reigns. It really has to be different, clear choices have to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u46	Madam President. This spring, I filed a motion asking the cabinet to set up an IMT, an Impact Management Team, in addition to the OMT. It could include a business expert, like a pedagogue and a youth worker. This would allow a broader consideration to be made alongside the OMT. That consideration has always been made, but we had to find it on page 60 of a piece with 80 sides. The balance was made, including in the cabinet. I know. What I very much liked yesterday was that very explicit and very openly that broader consideration was made and that the Prime Minister was very keen on dialogue with society. He said, "You are given freedom, but there is also responsibility, and it comes down to behavior. In this broad assessment, we see that it is quite precarious, that it is quite vulnerable where we are today. But we also see the mental, social and economic damage that is growing. We are now taking a number of steps in this respect." Honestly, I was happy about that. But it's vulnerable. The numbers aren't really going down, they're not really going up. It is exciting what will happen in the coming weeks, but the risks that have been taken have really been taken for good reasons. The OMT indicates that we not only have the hammer that blows the virus, but we also have to learn how to dance with the virus. That's what Mariëtte Hammer from the ESC said. What goes with that is an approach of small steps. Mr Dijkhoff's motion indicated: do not say whether a sector is completely open or not at all, but state that you are making small progress and how you are doing it. That's what's happening now. Young people can now go to school in part. Sports, shops, contact professions: you can see small steps taken there. Then you will immediately hear that in the debate too, the reproach of arbitrariness, but that is inevitable if you take small steps. Yes, of course you can take small steps elsewhere, but you will have to put them somewhere and they are being taken now. That offers a perspective and that offers hope and I think that is positive. My question is whether they can be put in other places. Mr Heerma preached that, because I said something about it in the newspaper. Look at the social fabric of our society. Where do people come together? Among other things, in churches, in neighborhoods and libraries. Those are very important meeting places. There are test sites. They're called an ugly Dutch word fieldlabs, but let's call them "tasting spots." We saw them at the theater. There was a convention. We've seen a soccer game with... I'm getting feedback, but I didn't hear what was being said. Tasting room? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm getting back to my point. If Mr. Klaver has anything else, he can come to the interrupting microphone and we'll have the conversation. We've seen these test sites in different places. It's nice that people came together again and that this was apparently very safe, but wouldn't that be possible in churches, libraries and community centers? Take them in there. I know that churches have roadmaps ready, that they would like to take those little steps and that there is tailor-made work possible. I know Minister Grapperhaus has always had good discussions. My encouragement is: talk to them and see what's possible there. I agree with the plea to look at higher education as well. Students have been sitting behind a screen for almost a year now; it's heavy. I would like to draw particular attention to first-year students, who have never seen a professor or a lecturer in person. It's hard for them, too. If we take those little steps, maybe we can take the first small step for them. How does the Cabinet view the relaxation of the visitor scheme from one person to one household? Is that a logical step if we can perhaps relax further in a few weeks' time? What room is there for nursing homes to go to, for example, two visitors? If a large proportion of the vaccine has been vaccinated there, the risks are reduced. Could the cabinet talk to Actiz? Almost finally, Madam President, curfew. The cabinet says it will be extended by three weeks. As a group, we have always said: we understand the consideration of continuing the curfew because it gives room for young people in education, sports and shopkeepers. But now saying "we're going to go through the curfew for three weeks" is too much to ask for. It's a freedom-limiting measure. It may be necessary, but you will have to back it up and make it clear every time. Jaap van Dissel just did that, so right now, where we are now, I get it and I'm going through it. But if the cabinet is looking for dialogue and wants to enter into the conversation with society, the cabinet will also have to support the curfew every time. Can I ask you two short questions about vaccinations? First of all, a fairly factual question. I read that one dose is already very effective. An international study said that the protection already offered at one dose is very high. Could this make it necessary to adjust the strategy? So how do we weigh this new information? That's an open question. I am not asking you to change it, but is that new information that needs to be weighed? My very last question. People with a chronic disease who have been home for almost a year and are very vulnerable have been pushed back when it comes to vaccination. I think it's their turn in May. That's a long time. It's a small group. I see the Minister of VWS nodding. If he could reassure me, but especially the people who are involved, that would be very nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u48	Thank you. A temporary crisis. That's what the cabinet thought it was about a year ago when we were confronted with this new corona virus. It turned out to be a painful mistake. A year later we are already in the tenth week of the most intense lockdown so far. Luckily, there are points of light. The secondary schools and the MBOs will be reopened under conditions. Outdoor sports in a team context is again possible for young people. The psychological and social impact of the crisis is finally explicitly taken into account. Other parties have already asked us whether there is really no possibility of introducing relaxations for the HBOs and universities. Maybe one day a week of physical education. We can really see that there's gonna be a crack for relaxation. We hope that there will be some light for that as well. Mr. Chairman. Let's stick it out, let's stick it out, and this fall we're done, we hear this cabinet say. But in that optimism, the desire for the old is abnormally intertwined. A longing for the Netherlands before the crisis. A desire for a Netherlands in which we ignore the great risk of a new infectious disease from animal to human being skipping and causing a new pandemic. A desire for a Netherlands in which we think that after this crisis we think we have had the worst. Mr. Chairman. The climate crisis is therefore the great blind spot of this cabinet. However, sign the Climate Agreement and promise green recovery from the corona crisis, but in the meantime give the aviation sector a blank cheque of 3.4 billion and just let it grow. A second package of aid is once again being pre-sorted without serious climate conditions ever being imposed. I therefore ask this cabinet: when will it be enough for the aviation sector? The Prime Minister, also of course leader of the VVD, wrote this weekend that he wants to prepare the care for the next health crisis. The next health crisis... Of course, we need to make sure that people in care do not have to turn their backs again, but that is not what you are doing by resting on the fact that the next crisis will come again. As Marion Koopmans said a few years ago, we're making viruses way too easy. Three quarters of the new infectious diseases jump from animal to human, the so-called zoonoses. The Netherlands is the most densely stocked country in the world. We are the largest importer of deforestation products in Europe, causing animals to lose their habitat and become increasingly in contact with humans. We drag animals and animal products around the world. We're flying all over the world ourselves. Take the avian flu virus, which is now in full swing. We also see this in the Netherlands. Last weekend it was announced that this avian influenza virus, the variant H5N8, has been switched from animal to human for the first time in Russia and that this variant now also causes many outbreaks in poultry farming in the Netherlands. According to an employee of a Russian health service, it is only a matter of time before the virus mutates in such a way that it will be contagious not only from animal to animal, but also from human to human. It is now really time for the VWS Minister to use the perseverance force that we have already adopted here in the Chamber with a motion. I would like to know what the Minister will do, and I would ask for a response. Measures should now be taken to prevent infectious animal diseases that pose a threat to public health. So stop building the bio-industry in countries around the world. Stop dragging animals. Stop with the big chicken and pig stables. Stop constantly filling stables to an outbreak of animal diseases. And stop the large-scale imports of those deforestation products, such as soya and palm oil. Because then we really do not want to go to another crisis, which at least we want to avoid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u50	Madam President. It could have gone differently at the press conference last night. The Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS could have said: sorry, if we look at virological data, there is no room for relaxation; hold on for a while. But that didn't happen. My group is right to believe that this is not happening and that there have indeed been refinements and relaxations, because we have all noticed that so many people have been calling for water and that this broader social consideration, which my group has often called for, has now been made clear. Yes, this whole corona crisis also has an enormous impact on the economy and society. I was therefore pleased that yesterday there was also a clear eye for this and that there was more room from there as well. A second development has a role to play in this, namely the realization that we can no longer say that the choices must take a moment and that we will then be there. More and more we realize that the virus remains among us for some time to come. That is the reality that we must take into account. If that is the case, should it not continue much further in a shift towards an appeal on citizens' own responsibility and greater freedom? That's what I'm asking the Cabinet. Is it not inevitable that we should return to normal relations in this respect? In the first crisis approach, you actually saw an emphasis on Father State, who was going to take care of everything for the citizen. But it is precisely in the continuation of the crisis that it is important to go back to what Mr Oud once said in 1948, already in the VVD's programme of principle, and what I also like very much as a SGP member: "The party demands that the aim always be to guarantee the greatest possible degree of spiritual, political and social freedom for all, but the party is aware that true freedom can only exist if it is accompanied by responsibility and it is a task of democracy to create the conditions that enable that responsibility to come to its own." And that is also the way, for my group, in those relations, in which we will have to go further. Watching too, not only how we can increase safety by limiting contact moments as far as possible. No, also see what freedom we can express in society, how we can allow this independence, including of the various groups of people, associations, churches, to make their own responsible choices for the well-being and well-being of others. I am curious to see how the cabinet views this, whether we are doing enough to give real space to this resilience and creativity of society. I would like to draw attention to a few groups. Higher education has already been mentioned, and I would particularly like to mention first-year students. I spent the week with Esther Ouwehand with a number of youngsters at NOS on 3. And when you talk about it, you notice that with those who aren't used to it at all, the need is highest. So within higher education also attention to those groups. Shops: cautious steps are taken for this, but is there no need for more customisation, and possible? Restaurants: they would also be looked at, some time ago, or there wouldn't be room for those separate restaurants in that restaurant? How's that going? I would also very much like to endorse what Mr Segers has said about the churches. And I also mention this in one breath: the space for pastoral visits and the association work, which is now, of course, all very much cut off. When it comes to scaling up care, if we are to take or take more risks, we must also realise that the pressure on health care remains high. And I've also asked many times about scaling up care capacity inside and outside the hospital. Can the Minister also give an, um, "update"? Mr President, I am thinking... I don't like English words either, but what is a Dutch word for "update"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u51	"Actualization" or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u52	An actualization! Give it an actualization. And actually even a simpler word... Anyway, we're still breeding for that. But at least it's clear what I mean, I think. And finally about curfew and strict visitation arrangements. I also saw this in the Catshuis pieces: would it not be possible to simplify this strict visitation scheme, and clarify it to "meet one household a day"? I'd also like to hear the reaction to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u54	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is sick of it. People are through. People are done that this cabinet unnecessarily takes away people's contact, their freedom, their enjoyment of life and their income. Because where exactly is the logic? In December, everything had to be closed. In January, the curfew came up again. The figures remained roughly the same. But why these so-called "sustainers"? What is different than, for example, on 13 January, when we tabled a motion to request the hairdressers to open? Rutte then indicated that this ab-so-luut could not. The majority of the Chamber followed blindly, and the motion was mercilessly voted away. And chairman. I just asked a question. Everyone actually knows the answer: the elections are at the door. And that's why pacifiers had to be handed out to keep people sweet. Because Rutte wants to come out of this crisis as a hero himself. And, of course, people really do. The absolute low point is, of course, that curfew. Despite a ruling by the judge, who has floored the curfew, and despite the fact that no one can prove that curfew really works, and despite the fact that the Netherlands is simply ready to be locked up in your house from 9 p.m., the curfew autocrat Rutte de Nederlander remains tormenting and bullying for another three weeks. The patches and sweets handed out by the cabinet with relaxations are not enough to meet the enormous suffering in society. All those kids having a hard time. All those entrepreneurs who watch their business break down. All those people who are sick of the lockdown. There's no one else responsible for that but this man sitting there. The Dutch deserve better than this Prime Minister. People deserve to get back a little bit of their freedom, to be able to enjoy life as it was. DENK believes that much more is possible in a responsible way than is currently allowed by this Prime Minister. DENK wants the Dutchman no longer to give in unnecessarily. DENK wants people to stop being scared with stories about the British variant and all kinds of other foreign variants coming this way. DENK wants people to stop being scared with horror scenarios based on models and theoretical exercises. Just cut it out, Prime Minister. DENK wants the gyms, museums, theatres and cinemas to open in a responsible manner. DENK wants shops and restaurants to be able to reopen in a responsible way. DENK wants that curfew abolished immediately. Get rid of it! It is time to stop the economic and social damage to Rutte's corona policy. It's time to stop human suffering. It is time to stop all these violations of human rights and privacy, to stop curfew, with a corona passport, with a data collection of people, where no one really knows what happens to that data. If this House does not want to stop this Prime Minister, the Netherlands must stop this Prime Minister. Soon, the Netherlands will be able to take away freedom, destroying our economy, causing so much suffering and locking up our young people. Soon the Netherlands will be able to vote back a piece of freedom. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, 50PLUS opened a corona pricking point. In one weekend, within two days, more than 1,000 reports were already in, and it's still rising steadily. Our mailbox is also full of questions from people who want to know when they are due for vaccination. They find that uncertainty very annoying, especially the people who say they are sick or have a condition. I therefore ask the Minister how he will clarify that vaccination scheme. Of course, subject to deliveries, but clearer than now and not quarterly. The support for corona measures is coming under increasing pressure. In addition to enormous economic damage, social and psychological distress is becoming more and more severe. The Roadmap mainly indicates what cannot be done. Turn that around. Give people hope, perspective and a real horizon. Show better what vaccination rate and at which R-value can be restored. Take people in there. That is the way to maintain support for corona restrictions. In particular, provide insight into the basis for specific restrictions. Underbuilding creates trust. Mr. Chairman. When the weather is good, people go out on a massive scale, in which the distance rules are not always properly observed. If you can't regulate it better, 50PLUS wonders. That is why we also agree with a number of speakers here who think that the nice weather should make it easier to open the terraces, because that is much more coronaproof. Mr. Chairman. One issue we really need to talk about is the election. My colleague has already drawn attention to this on several occasions to the Minister for the Interior, but it really seems a no-go to talk at all about postponement. In France, the regional elections were postponed for a few months. In Catalonia, with a sensitive political situation, the turnout of regional elections was drastically lower, about 22.5% lower than last time. While, like here, very clear measures had been taken to ensure that the elections were as safe as possible. There has also been a trial showing that people misread the ballot note. That's gonna cost a lot of votes. We shouldn't want that. 50PLUS still wants to answer the question of what criteria the government uses to prevent the elections from going ahead. 50PLUS also wants an opinion from the OMT. We are eagerly awaiting Minister Ollongren's letter. For now it is important to keep the third wave as far away as possible. That means: vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate. But also make quick work of more quick and home tests. KPMG and VU demonstrate their economic profit. This also offers perspective for education, events and sport. Then I have a practical question, Mr President. There's a phone number at the invitation to a vaccination that you can call. There's no way to do that for the deaf and the hearing impaired. Can we also find another way to make an appointment, for example via the Internet or by giving an email address under that phone number? Finally, Mr President. I would like to join the speakers who have asked here to please delete the partner test from both the Tozo and the TONK. Do not enter it and delete it where it is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u57	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u58	Mr. Chairman. Our own Dutch corona variant is under control and the ic occupation is normalized. But then suddenly there was the British variant, which the Prime Minister said last week about the prevention paradox. Maurice de Hond said about this that if the cabinet says that everyone has to urinate sitting down to fight the virus and then nothing happens, the cabinet will call for the measures to work. Total bullshit. On 2 February, the Prime Minister said that two thirds of the infections concerned the British variant. On 9 February this was adjusted by RIVM to 54% and on 16 February again to 48%. But virology Chantal Reusken of the RIVM indicated that at that time it was only 23%, compared to 22% a week earlier. So there's no increase. In addition, all these values have been determined on the basis of non-representative samples and the result is contaminated by an overrepresentation at low Ct values. In addition, RIVM was wrongly based on 10,000 infections per day, an R-value of 1.6 and a displacement rate of 100%. There is great reason to doubt the models and current figures of RIVM. How does the Minister explain the difference between the higher percentages and the rate of 23? Mr Van Dissel said this morning that the lockdown and curfew prevented 41,000 hospital admissions and 6,300 ic recordings. What fantasy model does this come from, and wouldn't it be good for mathematicians to verify this? The Delft engineer Fritsander Lahr submitted a Wob request in September 2020 to calculate the models of the RIVM. I'd like to hear from the Minister why he doesn't get these models. Shouldn't it be transparent? The predictions relating to the British variant are evidently not in line with the actual figures. The cabinet assumes that the RIVM figures are correct. That's why we now have a lockdown, a curfew and unbearable harm for society. Hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs and young people are breaking down. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we are the country where vaccines go in slow-motion. Epic government failure now leads to a knowledge origin. I'm not afraid of vaccines. I've taken several well-tested vaccines in my life. I'm glad it didn't give me diphtheria, whooping cough or polio. But trust in this cabinet is so low that I have a bad feeling about the safety of the current vaccines. In Israel, where they can organize a vaccination program, there are already quite a few side effects. Of the 60-plussers, 4.4% died within six weeks of the first injection. Does the Minister recognize this effect? Is there any monitoring in the Netherlands of the side effects of the different vaccinations? Can you give me some of these numbers? The doctor Jeffrey Hirschfield comes after studies with a mortality rate for the Pfizer vaccine of 2.6% and for the Moderna vaccine of 7.7%. What are the figures for the Dutch situation? How many people died in the Netherlands within a few weeks of the vaccine being administered? And then please specify by vaccine. Then there is my irritation about the requirement to submit a negative PCR test before you can travel in or out of the Netherlands. This costs €125 per test at private companies and it is sand in the machine. It doesn't create anything, it doesn't provide any extra security, and it only costs extra money. In addition to the fact that the PCR test is completely unreliable in people without complaints, my question is why the GGD cannot issue a certificate and why not for free. Finally. We're at a tipping point in history. If we allow a government to deal with the facts and let the people in the country be so destroyed, then you must resist and then you must fight for the freedom you are being taken away. If we do not, I predict that it will be a long dark period with a French variant, a Spanish variant and a Greek variant. Once we get used to lockdowns, I predict a lockdown every year. So, as far as we're concerned, we protect the vulnerable, we scale up the care and we stop all measures. Because getting support crumbs thrown at by a power-abuse government for which the people are developing some sort of Stockholm syndrome is not a real freedom. But we still have a chance on March 17th and it's now or never. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u59	Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, I asked for a letter about Build Back Better and The Great Reset from the World Economic Forum. The Prime Minister uses that term on international stages and links it to the corona crisis. He literally calls the corona crisis "a huge opportunity for that new normal," but I don't know what he means by that new normal. And also people I speak to don't know what that new normal is; they want the normal back. On markets during the election tour of the List Henk Krol and through robberies and emails people ask me: is that letter there yet? So my question is: is the letter about Build Back Better on its way yet? Even D66 asked for it. At least I couldn't see that letter yet. Those markets only have stalls with food. Other market merchants are being driven to despair. Has it been shown that there will be more corona diseases if all market stalls are allowed to open? Oh, come on. Today the market merchants protested in Haaksbergen. I fully understand them. It's like the cabinet pulls out of a tombola every week. This time, ten minutes of shopping came out. It hardly helps entrepreneurs. I'm very fond of it. It is oppressive to see how this cabinet with a VVD Prime Minister leaves entrepreneurs in the lurch. Young people are allowed to play team sports again, but older people, for whom movement is very important, are still not allowed to do so. Why? There was a trial congress in Utrecht and there were no infections there. Was that because healthy people were there with a well-functioning immune system? Wouldn't that work the same way in the hospitality industry? Please give a detailed response because the impact for the catering industry is not to be described. When it comes to restricting our freedom and a ban on taking action, measures must not come from a tombola, but must be well-founded. Finally, today Japan appointed a minister for loneliness. Who in the Dutch cabinet is responsible for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u60	Mr President, who else understands cabinet policy, this inimitable mop policy? What's that gonna do? Is a third wave gonna hit us hard? Can the Cabinet explain exactly the difference between a single person visiting a couple and the same couple visiting a single person? The first one is allowed and the second one is not allowed. And there are a lot more of these kinds of examples. Is that sensible to give room for manoeuvre if no one understands any of these measures and everyone feels distraught alone in the fight against covid and financial disaster? More and more people are in this type of misery and report to the food bank. And how's the care going? The mop policy has prevented them from catching their breath, as they could between the first and second wave in the summer. What does the Cabinet say to them now? Now the steps on the Roadmap are followed in the opposite direction, despite no less than three OMT recommendations not to do so, because de-escalation requires a roadmap with different signal values and cannot follow the same steps in the opposite direction. The pressure on care is already untenable. Why is this chosen? This morning Mr Van Dissel showed in charts that the chosen policy leads to scenarios in which the ic has a peak occupancy of no less than 2,000 to 3,000 beds. Some countries send on zerocovid. Am I to understand that this cabinet is sending on endemic covid? Does this cabinet seem to have given up fighting? Everyone will be infected, we heard Mr Van Dissel say this morning. What does endemic covid mean for the growing pool of lung covid patients? Those are the people who leave serious chronic complaints to covid. How many people are this now and how many people are under the radar? What does the Cabinet do for them? Mr. Chairman. Finally. What's the endgame? Is there also a long-term route map? Wouldn't it be good to clarify that by now? Because don't tell me this cabinet still has no idea where we're going! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u61	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. I hear he's proposing to combine the suspension with the lunch break. Then I'll suspend until 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u62	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u63	Madam President. In the distribution of roles I had invented with my colleagues on this side to say a few things myself in response to the questions asked about the measures, curfew, communication, elections, education and support packages. The Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, Hugo de Jonge, will address questions related to the roadmap, strategy of scaling up and down, testing, vaccines and field labs. The Minister for Medical Care talks about care capacity, sports and other questions. I would like to begin my speech with a single introductory word to Mr Van der Staaij, if I may. When I am done with that, I would like to start with the questions that have been asked about the package in general, then zoom in on education, because many specific questions have been asked about it, then some questions about communication and consistency, then the questions about the support packages and finally a few other questions. If you will allow me, I would like to start with a response to the SGP, which is, of course, also an initial response to the reply. The beautiful quote of the great foreman of the Free-Democratic League, later with Van Riel. He was the great man of the Party of Freedom. They founded the VVD together, as we know, in 1948. Indeed, Professor Oud was quoted here by Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, in the old dilemma of the balance between freedom and responsibility. For me as a liberal, freedom and responsibility are beyond the other liberal principles, such as social justice and equality. It is precisely in this balance between freedom and responsibility that we are trying to do our work here. In any case, that is a point of departure for me. But it is also a dilemma for which I have experienced a consistent interest over the past few months from the foreman of the Political Reformed Party, Mr Van der Staaij. For example, in the debate on the covid law and in the debates on curfew. This epidemic has put our noses on the facts. It is a classic principle in many political movements, including mine, that one's freedom can be at the expense of the other's freedom and sometimes even at the expense of the other's health. That may be a reason why the state has to intervene to protect the vulnerable. At the same time, this government wants to maximise its scope and mobilise the resilience of society for the greater part of the Chamber and the government. That's in the possibilities we're looking for with field labs and all kinds of other initiatives we're taking. That's why the important behavioral advice is important. That is also why I addressed the Dutch yesterday to all of us, my and all of us, individual responsibility. I realize that, if we don't do that on our own initiative, sometimes you can also force it through enforcement. But that's not gonna help us in the end. In the end, it's in the intrinsic motivation. In that context, I would like to conclude this little introduction in order to respond to that wonderful quote by Professor Oud with a quote by Abraham Kuyper from his speech for the initiation of the Vrije Universiteit. He said there: "In every fortunate attempt on freedom, the State can never be an accomplice, the chief culprit remains the duty-forgotten citizen himself, who, in sin and sensual pleasure, has weakened moral muscle, lost the strength of his own initiative." This may have been 100 years ago, but I think it is a good introduction to this important part of the debate on where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u64	I see Mr Wilders, but I think Mr Van der Staaij wants to say something back first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u65	I saw that Mr Wilders gave me the opportunity to do so, and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u66	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u67	I like to start with that dilemma. I told you that at the beginning of the crisis, everyone understood that we needed to look at the big government: what are you going to do? But now that it is taking longer, does the Prime Minister see room for the movement to say, for example, to entrepreneurs and civil society organisations: do you now come up with plans on how you can manage your own life by limiting as many risks as possible without having to be dealt with in detail from The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u68	The answer to that is, of course, yes. That's why we do the field labs and why there are conversations with a lot of sectors about what you can do when there's some space. The tricky thing is that I must also honestly say that in this serious pandemic the problem is not that the cafés and restaurants are not working safely. The vast majority of the cafes and restaurants work safely. Or that the average carnival wouldn't work safely. The vast majority of the 150 fairs that did take place last year are normally that there were many thousands and in the end there were only 150 fairs that worked safely last year. The problem is the sum total of all these movements and the risks involved. But I agree with Mr Van der Staaij: if that epidemiological space is there, then you also need the input of sectors to see how it can be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u69	You see, just to give a concrete example, such a tension field also back when it comes to those two people per floor. Do you consider the size of a particular store? I understand that, if you're just looking at it from a state perspective and enforcement point of view, it's useful to have one size for everyone. But if you think more from the responsibility of sectors, then you decide what number can be done here and if necessary you can make sure that it can be done with technical tools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u70	Yes, and there is indeed the tension between the clarity from the enforcement and the space you want to give. We believe that what we are doing now is very exciting anyway, because there is very little room, if not almost no room, other than secondary education, but it is still necessary to take a few first steps, for reasons such as those mentioned yesterday, and to take that risk. At the exciting stage in which we are now taking some risks, it is important to leave the balance between space to the sector altogether versus the enforcement of the measure, making it very important to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u71	Finally. Another example of something that was very much about: higher education. Isn't that another example where you can say: what space do you, universities and colleges see, to make what possible in a responsible way with risk reduction? This rather than waiting for better times, of which we have yet to see exactly when they will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u72	Yes, and here it is the two-stage missile. It is necessary to know from the colleges, universities and many other sectors how to do it safely if there is any space. Probably won't be able to do it all at once. Previously, with the secondary schools, including the framework established by the RIVM, we have looked at what can be done there and how. Only the question is whether it is possible to give that space really depends on the sum of all the risks you take from epidemiology. In our opinion, you can't take any chances now. You must be prepared to take any acceptable risks, but that must be done step by step. But that does not mean that, because a sector has been carefully thought through, the sector can open up. Eventually opening, for example, higher education in the sum total also leads to so much movement that you have to say in the final weighting that this is not possible yet. I shall come back to this later on on the basis of the questions put by GroenLinks and D66 and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u73	The Prime Minister took away their freedom from the Dutch by entering the curfew after 9 p.m. I hate it when people get their freedom taken away. But apart from that, the Prime Minister also promised, here in the Chamber but also on television, that the curfew would be abolished first when it could be done. Those are his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u75	Whatever you think of the curfew, whether you believe with the PVV that it should never have been there, or with your party here in the Chamber with the coalition who think it should be there: it's not fair. That's unreliable. That's the non-compliance of a promise. The Prime Minister can then say: it is change to open the schools. But apart from that, you have promised it, and then you must do it, or else you will be unreliable. You didn't do that, and I blame you. What he did do, with the elections coming in, as it seems, is a picture of relaxing. But that too is largely a sham. Because those two people per floor by appointment don't solve the shopkeeper's problems. I said that this morning in my interruption to Mr Dijkhoff. And the people who run a catering business, they can't do anything. Whether they have a restaurant, a pub or a terrace: they can wait all the way to the last. Who are you kidding with this? You don't keep your promise, and that opening up seems to be one big sham.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u76	Good questions and I'll try to answer them, too. To begin with, the question about curfew: yes, we would like to get rid of that. It still is. We would like to get rid of that, but I must point out the advice of the Outbreak Management Team that it is expected that the pressure on care will increase rapidly if the curfew and the visitor limitation are lifted at this stage of the epidemic. They strongly advise to continue that curfew and the visitation restriction. That's one piece and the reason that curfew can't leave right now. In addition, we have come to the conclusion that it is important to see what you can offer very carefully. The Outbreak Management Team says that you should first look at secondary education with great priority. I shall now come to the arguments. You have also been able to read them and they have to do with the enormous social, educational and psychological effects of not going to school, not only on the primary school students who are now going to school but also on the secondary school students and the students on the MBO. That's that part. There is, unfortunately, very little else possible. But we have looked at it, from the thought that you might want to take steps over a broader front, what we could do in the country for the economy. That is the balance you have seen and it has to do with the fact that these steps lead to limited transport movements and one-to-one contacts. In many cases triage is possible and will not often repeat itself, because Mr Wilders and I do not go to the hairdresser every day. It is therefore a cautious relaxation that we are daring to do, but it is under the charge of taking any risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u77	I do not think that is a fair answer. Look, I didn't promise. I didn't promise that at the time it could... In fact, you said that the first measure I am taking is that curfew. Those are your words! I didn't promise that and then you shouldn't say to me: the OMT says... Then you should have said that. Then you should have said: unless the OMT... You didn't say that. You have said here in the Chamber, you can read the Acts, the first measure I am giving away if I have the chance to relax is the curfew. So it's just not fair that you don't. Then the catering business. You say that the only room we have left is to open the schools, because there is a lot of psychological damage there. I'll be the last to deny that's the case with the students, but how about the damage in the catering industry? How about those people? I saw this week in a morning paper that they said, "We're bleeding." That's what they said about their own sector. They've put their savings, their mortgage and everything they've got into their business, and they're going to the philistines. They've been waiting almost a year for it, but they can't wait for weeks to open again. And why don't you talk about the psychic and financial... I have also told you in earlier debate: there are people in the hospitality industry who even call the helpline against suicide, against suicide. Those are huge problems. Why the hell can't I hear you about that? You are right about the psychological damage suffered by the students, but why not mention the damage done to the catering industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u78	It's horrible. I agree with Mr Wilders on this. It's horrible. At the same time, as politicians, the House of Representatives and the Cabinet, we always have to look at what prevails. We have, of course, established here before and I think, for very good reasons, that opening up education is the absolute priority. That was possible a while back at primary schools, primary schools, and fortunately it can be done now, albeit under all kinds of restrictions, in secondary education and the MBO. This also fits in with the previous choice we made for the reasons I mentioned. But that doesn't change what Geert Wilders says, because I agree with what he said about the huge impact it has on entrepreneurs that their business is closed. But at the moment there is simply not the possibility to do both. If you are going to see which small steps you can take in the economy, then it is possible to make the opening of what is called "the contact professions" in jargon, for example the hairdresser, one of the few things. There is now a possibility of this under the taking of any risk, because this is actually about one-on-one contacts that are not repeated over and over again. Moreover, it leads to few above-regional movements. This reduces the extent of the risks to the spread of the virus. The hospitality industry simply cannot open at the moment, because the risks are really too great. I'd love to. So I also agree with Wilders' speech on the impact on entrepreneurs, but there is no such room at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u79	I think I speak as a politician and not as a virologist that that space is there. I think the hospitality department has some very responsible plans. I think the Minister of EZK has said that. Restaurants have invested a lot in it to be able to open in a responsible way. In the summer, this didn't all lead to additional movements on trains and so on. Like the local hairdresser, the local restaurant or the local bar on the corner must now also be able to open responsibly. Then there's another point. Why have we been in trouble for so long? Why are we in a lockdown? Why are we getting out so hard and it's only going a little bit by little? That is also the case, Mr Prime Minister, because you should have started as well. I am not saying 'as only', but 'as well' with the voluntary vaccination of the group that mainly occupy the ICIs. I believe that the average is 64 to 65 years of the people who are now on the ic and who also have a disease. Think of heart problems, kidney disease, diabetes and you name it. The nasty thing is that there has been a motion from me to make speed with that group that that group of people between 65 and 70 to 80 has been completely forgotten. There's no plan yet to graft those people. In fact, Mr Van Delden of GGD Nederland said this morning during the briefing that they will be the last. As the very last! I'm talking about the people between 65 and 80, most of whom are on the ICUs right now. Because you don't, because you're the last to do that group, the pressure on the ic's will always be higher than necessary. Please, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say in all kindness that we begin immediately with the voluntary vaccination of that group as well, because that leads to less pressure on the ic's and thus to the earlier recovery of our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u80	Given the mix of the vaccines we have, of course that group is also in the picture. However, the choice of the vaccine is really an important point of departure; perhaps Geert Wilders and I differ on this point about which prioritization you apply and which groups you first vaccinate, so which one you put in the front and which one later, is a choice that the government has said: let us weigh very heavily the medical-ethical advice that we get from the Health Council. That advice from the Health Council was very much in line with what is happening in most of the Western world. Of course, in the end we make the balance and we decide; I agree with Geert Wilders. But the risk that we would not do that on the basis of the medical-ethical advice we receive from the Health Council, from the experts, could be that you make those kinds of choices from the political rational. I think it's important that we do it from the medical-ethical angle that the Health Council has given us. It's not strange what they've advised. If you look at the rest of the Western world, you can see it's in line with that. If you then look at the mix of the vaccines we have and for what age they work, you will see that they are vaccinated across a wider front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u81	Mr Wilders, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u82	Finally, on this point. It's just not true. Again, the population that is now on the ic's is made up of people between 60 and 75. It's completely forgotten. But apart from that, the Prime Minister forgets I just told him that the Wilders motion was adopted on 17 December last year. Then don't touch the Health Council. There were advices from the Health Council back then. My motion adopted says that 70-plussers should be added to the group of people who should be the first to be vaccinated voluntarily. The motion says "first." It's a motion adopted by the House of Representatives. Don't make another motion next to you. Mr Van Delden said this morning at the briefing............................................................................................................................................................................................ The GGD says that the group of people between 65 and 80 comes last. The motion, adopted by the Chamber, says: add to do first. You can't do that. I'm really sorry, but you can't have a Chambermove... everyone here in the Chamber knew about the Health Council's advice. Nevertheless, a majority of the House of Representatives of the States-General adopted that motion. Then we should not hear from the GD that they are not the first, but the last. You understand that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u83	That's not right. It's not like that group's gonna be the last one. Hugo de Jonge will go further on the vaccination approach, but that is simply not true. With regard to my main point, I also hear no objection from Mr Wilders. Maybe we agree that it is a good thing that we do not decide primarily from the political point of view. Again, the specific point he makes is wrong. The general point he makes is: who decides in the first instance, on what basis do you initially decide on the vaccination order? We do this on the basis of the experts' opinions. I still think that's wise. Then you also come up with an approach that is broadly in line with what is happening in the rest of the Western world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u84	I actually wanted to introduce...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u85	So do I, but this is just a debate trick. He's just not answering my question. He says: Mr Wilders and I agree. We don't agree at all. We don't agree at all! From the very beginning, the PVV said that you should be the first to vaccinate the group that is now on the ic, the 65-, 70-, 80-year-olds. There's a Chambermoment about that. Mr Van Delden says this morning, on 24 February, I quote: 'I have no plan. There is no start for the voluntary vaccination of 65- to 80-year-olds. They'll be the last." Then you shouldn't say that's not true. That's what he said this morning. The whole of the Netherlands has seen this on television. And there's a motion passed, so I'm sticking with it. Not because I want to get my way on this motion, which in itself would be reason enough, but because that is, of course, the key to removing the pressure on the ic's and getting our freedom back. So I would like you not to use a debate trick on whether we agree or not, but to take that seriously, on Mr Van Delden's statement and on the motion adopted to get our freedom back and to reduce the pressure on the ic's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u86	The subject seems too serious and too serious to me to fight each other with tricks in it. Mr Wilders does not and I do not. I think we are having a substantive discussion and it is right that we have it, because that is what the Chamber is for. It's a substantive discussion. What I find is that at the moment, on a broader front than Mr Wilders suggests, vaccination is being carried out and that for very good reasons, the Health Council has advised that we have followed it to put a certain order in the process of vaccination. This also has to do with the health gains that are made in people with a very vulnerable position because they are older or have underlying diseases and the people who care for them. There are therefore very good reasons for this and that is also what is happening in the rest of the world, at least in the Western world. If you're actually looking at what's happening right now, you can see that it's over a much wider front. In the meantime, there have also been many more vaccinations in hospitals. You can also see this across a broader front than the age groups. That also has to do with the mix of the vaccines we get. The last problem here is, of course, that we prefer to have a vaccine in itself, because we can vaccinate what we have and want more. You'd like to have more volume. There is, of course, another problem, namely that you would like the number of vaccines we can place to increase further. Of course, this is also being worked on with man and power. That is of course something we do together in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u87	Mr Segers and then I have Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u88	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister began with a very basic argument about the role of the government and when it can restrict freedom. The Prime Minister himself belongs to a political tradition that puts freedom first. I myself belong to a tradition that leaves much initiative and space to society. In that light, I liked the fact that the Prime Minister placed that responsibility so strongly in that society and so also appealed to people for their own responsibility. Then where it's about that curfew. That's a freedom-limiting measure. Mr Wilders is a little more firm than I am. I was able to follow that balance yesterday, but at the same time power and also power to restrict freedom is always borrowed power. That's always in dialogue with the one who chose you. That means that each time you have to explain why you limit that freedom, to what extent it does and how long you do it. In that light, I found an extension of three weeks, at least for three weeks now, for a very long time. Again, if it goes by the week, every time that consideration is made, I might as well be able to follow it. Is it not true, precisely in the light of freedom, precisely in the light of responsibility and the borrowed power that we have, that we should do so step by step and not announce a freedom-limiting measure for just three weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u89	On the more fundamental point about how we look at the role of the government and the differences in emphasis between the tradition of Gert-Jan Segers and that in which I myself stand, I agree with Mr Segers' speech. A difference is also, I think, that in the confessional movements there is also more room for what I call the 'functional decentralisation of government power', while for more liberal movements arising from the French Revolution, there is, of course, always a certain basic distrust of functional decentralisation, and more is being chosen for territorial decentralisation and, of course, for the centralisation of human beings. Man, the individual, comes from strength to cooperation with others, and that leads to an inspiring connection in society. Let us return to Mr Segers' specific question. The OMT opinion is very firm. The OMT opinion is so firm that we have actually said: "Let's do this for three weeks now, but of course we're not going to weigh this explicitly every week and we're not going to ask the OMT every week whether we still have to do it." Reading the opinion, there will probably be a somewhat irritated answer: "Yes, read the advice of last time, because it really hasn't changed just like that." Conversely, by implication, if there were to be signs in the near future that that curfew would no longer be necessary, we will of course immediately come to the Chamber with the announcement: fortunately we can get rid of it. I'm just afraid that's not the case. When I read the OMT opinion and the experts' explanation of it, I see that it is a very serious point that the OMT makes. Whoever followed this morning's hearing saw that, too. The OMT says that at the moment it is not possible to renounce it, also because of concerns about the capacity of health care and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u90	Mr Wilders rightly quoted the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has indeed said: the curfew is the first step off. That's what the Prime Minister has come back to. And for good reason, I say he's come back to that. So it was understandable. Just because he was so insightful and transparent about the balance that was made, that was very easy to follow. He said: we want room for young people, for shopkeepers, for contact professions. That was very easy to follow, but that balance will always have to be made, also with regard to the virus. Van Dissel's contribution in this area was indeed quite clear: the situation is still quite worrying and it is not at all that we could only take steps forward. So we do it with fear and trembling. And indeed, then there is no other way than to do so by appealing to people's responsibility to look after their own behavior. However, I would like to say once again: I hope that the cabinet will also take the flexibility to make that assessment every time and to continue to make that broad assessment, as it was done yesterday. Each time the interests must be carefully weighed between mental, social and social. And that curfew has a place somewhere on that scale. It is a freedom-limiting measure and it can only be temporary. But I would ask you to at least keep that openness. And when you think about steps forward, for example, you might also think about a measure where that curfew goes a step backwards, so the curfew starts later. So if that agility of spirit and transparency remain, then it might well be that I can follow all the steps well. But I do call on the Cabinet to continue to make the trade-offs transparent and open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u91	Yes, but still, so that we do not have a false consensus: given the strength of the OMT opinion, I would not be in favour of explicitly asking OMT every week whether that curfew should be extended. I wouldn't be for that. I'm here for the next one. Maybe that's a point we can work out together. I am at the implication that if there are any counter-signals, namely that this curfew may no longer be necessary, we will immediately report to you and we will tell you that good news has come. I have no objection to that. In fact, that's what I want. Mr Segers, in my view, quotes Mr Wilders correctly, and Mr Wilders quoted me correctly again, because I said 'if possible'. It's just not possible right now. That is, of course, the big problem. And quite apart from the question of whether or not the curfew can be removed, the Outbreak Management Team, with all the expertise on that team, also from child psychology and pediatrics, states that we have to pay attention to the damage it starts to cause now that young people between 12 and 18 cannot go to school. There is, of course, a certain balance in this, but we must be careful to always put freedom-limiting measures and small extensions together in some sort of exchange. Not that Mr Segers does; I say this more to myself. However, I note that the OMT says: you simply cannot get rid of that curfew. And I find that the OMT also makes another statement, which is not necessarily linked to that statement about the curfew. The OMT also says: there is currently a risk for young people if they do not go to school now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u92	I'm not interested in a political exchange at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u93	No, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u94	I believe that the word 'cow trade' was also used here, or 'random'. I trust the cabinet when it says, "We will always make that trade-off in width. As soon as it is possible that curfew will indeed go off and we will always weigh it wider." And my appeal will continue to be and will continue to be that broad balance, including social, mental and economic consequences for all of us in this crisis. Continue to make that assessment in the broadest sense. Power is borrowed. We need to be able to look into the eyes of the electorate and those who have given us this confidence every time, and you have to answer for that every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u95	I agree with that whole argument, but then I did not promise that we will have that curfew on the scale again every week. I didn't promise, but we'd be close.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u96	I don't know who was first, Mrs. Marijnissen or Mrs. Ploumen. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u97	Thank you, Mr President, and Mrs Ploumen. We had a roadmap or by now roadmaps. The idea behind these roadmaps was that there would be some predictability in the measures. We see that the roadmaps do not really have a long life. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Another point was already raised here, namely the curfew and above all the promise made by the Prime Minister about that curfew: 'It is a rotten measure and the first measure I am going to delete when there is a little air again is that curfew'. What do we see now? That last promise is broken, because the curfew remains, while there will be room for economic relaxation. So we can get a toaster from the HEMA right away, but we all have to be inside at nine o'clock. What about the road maps? The last road map has also gone into the trash. Does the Prime Minister see that with this policy it is very difficult for people to have confidence? One, because promises made are broken, strong promises about far-reaching measures, and two, because the predictability that was promised is actually promised for a very short time to go back in the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u98	With regard to the Roadmap, I can say that the limited measures we are taking are entirely in line with the Roadmap. It is therefore fully applicable here. Increased levels of risk 4, very serious, we are now building on a limited scale and following the Roadmap. That's that part. Then there's the question about curfew. I have just tried to argue that and perhaps I can try again to do so. The Outbreak Management Team is very confident about that. The question of whether the curfew can be removed is answered by "no, it cannot be removed." I would find it a great risk to say to the Chamber now: we stop curfew. Period. Then they'll say something else. It's about secondary education. They also don't make a kind of direct trade-off themselves, in the sense of "if you keep secondary education closed, you can have no curfew." If you see their modeling with only the primary schools open, as is the case now, and no curfew: based on the current assumptions of what would happen in the hospitals and the intensive care departments towards the end of March/April, you will see increases that are very significant and would give us all great concern. So what they're saying is, don't do it now, keep that curfew. They say, but not necessarily in the sense of "if you don't do one, then the other can" that you should take this step in secondary education now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u99	It's got something uncomfortable. I can't imagine the Prime Minister not feeling that way. There are economic easings. We can go shopping by appointment in a few minutes. But something about which this cabinet promised "if anything comes of space, it goes off first," namely the curfew, remains standing, just like.................................................................................................................................................................... This at least gives rise to the worrying idea that economic easing has been a little more tempting than finally abolishing a measure which the Prime Minister called a bad measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u100	I understand that question, but I think it's different. The OMT is actually very clear. Quite apart from what you do with the secondary schools or what you do in terms of extra expansions in the economy, which makes you take a certain risk: if you remove the curfew in their modellings and open the primary schools, they are already open, then you can already see a significant increase in the risks. They therefore come to the conclusion: you should not do that. That's one. They come to that conclusion. The question of whether the curfew can be removed, they answer: no, that cannot be done. This also applies to the arrangement of one visitor at home. That's bad. Both measures are bad. The first is a measure restricting freedom and the second is an urgent opinion which indeed has a social and psychological effect. Next, the OMT says from its expertise about the importance of our children: make sure you give the secondary schools some space. It also says: do it limited. It's not so much toss them open. On balance, the children will hopefully be there for at least one day, and perhaps a little more, but the school is not open as it used to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u101	The Prime Minister is always talking about education, but I am asking about economic easing. The SP is pretty clear. We say: would it not be more logical to use the space that might be available as the first to provide physical education for our pupils and students? Then we can look at the very impactful measures such as one visitor at home and the curfew. It is only then that we can start thinking about economic easing. But the cabinet doesn't choose that. It does opt for economic relaxation, but everyone still has to stay inside from 9 p.m., despite the Prime Minister's promise. I would like to ask another question about the road map. Yesterday we saw footage of the Prime Minister visiting the entrepreneurs. This was also about the roadmap and how low the so-called signal values, i.e. the number of infections or the number of ic recordings, should be before we could begin to relax. Then the Prime Minister said, "Yes, but if you look at that, we'll all go crazy." In other words, in the view of the Prime Minister, this road map does not seem to be very significant either. Does he agree that this was, to say the least, an unfortunate statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u102	First, the first point, about curfew. The question we have to ask ourselves is, can we get it off? Well, that's not even close to what you're doing with the education. The few limited steps we take in the economy are steps that we expect to pose a limited risk. The Outbreak Management Team first addresses the question of curfew. That's the kan-question: can you get it off? The answer is no. We can choose to ignore that, but I don't think we will. My advice and my view are - and this is also our proposal - to maintain curfew. The OMT does say a few things about secondary education. But that is, of course, also in a cautious way, using, for example, the agreements made between schools and RIVM... I mean: the framework created by the RIVM on how to do it safely. Then on the road map. At the level you're talking about right now, level 4, very serious, and then small steps back, you don't necessarily have to deal with the question of how many ic-recordings you can do that. Those are small movements in that level "very serious." That's completely unrelated to the question of exactly how many recordings you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u103	I don't think that was my question. My question to the Prime Minister was whether he would make his own statement, that we would all go mad if we followed the road map, to say the least, is a clumsy statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u104	I knew at that time what we would announce in the evening, namely within that level'very serious' take a small step back. In addition, we did not allow the number of ic-recordings in the past two weeks to be guiding. In the level "very serious" you can make that kind of small movements. We were going to take that little risk. I don't think I've said anything extraordinary about that. In response to what Mrs Ploumen said outside the microphone: that I said something extraordinary; sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u105	I would like to comment on a question that Mrs Marijnissen asked, but which I do not think has yet been answered. We heard the Prime Minister say there are opportunities for small movements. But there are, of course, different options in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u106	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u107	You could have chosen to study that already six months ago to hire the RAI and make sure that students from colleges and universities can also spend a part of the day there. You could send high school kids two days to school. You can open up economic sectors. What considerations are there, a political balance, a balance between our health and an economic balance, which are at the root of the choice made by the cabinet? There's no way of getting up to speed right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u108	I'd like to answer that question. We've done a few cases. First of all, we have to note that space is very limited at all and we have really run a risk here on the advice of the Outbreak Management Team to do something for the secondary schools and something for the MBO. I would also like to say to Mr Klaver that, fortunately, we are not only doing something for the MBO, but for the whole MBO. But it's limited. It's one day a week for the whole MBO and it's a little more than one day for secondary education on balance, but it's also limited. Then, of course, there is a balance to be made. There are also statements from the Chamber here to see if you can finally take steps on a broader front as a society. Unfortunately, we are not taking everyone along in that broader front. At the moment, gyms and restaurants do not go, because they lead to more people inside, with risks. We want to make this as soon as possible, of course, but it is simply not possible at the moment. The same applies to theatres, cinemas, museums. So it's limited, but we did a few things outside of education that we said: because it's a one-on-one contact, because you can ask people if they have complaints, because it doesn't lead to a lot of above-regional movements and because it's not something you do every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u109	Back again. There's a small room. Everyone agrees on that. Everyone agrees, too... well, let me speak for myself. I give the nail studios and the hairdressers not only their customers, but also their sales and their lives back. But what I asked the Prime Minister is where students from colleges and universities come in. I didn't ask him if he could open hairdressers. No, I asked him why it wasn't chosen and how it looked at the possibilities of students again...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u110	I didn't answer that part; that's right. Let me give it a try. Look, the point isn't that we think colleges or universities can't organize that properly. They can. If this is well organized in accordance with all kinds of conditions and safety criteria, that goes crazy as well of course for a restaurant, but in this case it can also take place in itself for a university activity. The problem is that the sum total of all such activities leads to more movements and more risks of people colliding with each other and the spread of the virus. So you need to see what's possible. Then we thought: let's start with the OMT on secondary education and let's even go a step further than the OMT suggested, because the OMT was talking about the same age as secondary school students. That doesn't work in the MBO, because in the first two years of MBO 3 and MBO 4 there are of course also students from over 18 or 19 who later went to MBO because they did other things first or did a bit longer over high school. So that combination doesn't work. That is why we have said: for the whole MBO, let us make it possible for students to go to school no more than one day a week and for secondary schools at least one day a week. That was that piece. We then considered that it was at this stage, in which you notice that society, too, naturally says "it is taking a long time; what can you do with caution to make a little more possible in the economy?', on a broader front. We do something in education. We also do something for young people with sports: we make it possible for up to 27 years to play outdoor sports, not in competition but within their own sports club. That was 18 and that's now up to 27. In addition, we are taking a few small steps in the economy, so that you can make things possible over a broader front, taking some risk. I also think that this is in line with a number of wishes here in the Chamber to take smaller steps over a wider front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u111	I have Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Jetten and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u112	Let's talk about the road map. I read in the OMT opinions that the OMT advises that the desclation route map can only actually be used if you use other signal values. The current Roadmap is not meant to be read backwards, so to always take small steps back. The OMT actually says: the reason is that, if you see the number of infections rising, the number of hospitalizations is lagging behind. If you want to reverse the road map and actually try to reduce those infections but open it up again, then you already have a very big pressure on the care. He's staying. And if you even have a little stagnation, you're really going through the roof. So you have to work with other signal values to create a de-escalation route map. Why did the cabinet take the advice of the OMT in the wind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u113	Well, of course we've shown what, if you go from level 4 to level 3, and from 2 to 1, the signal values must be. They're all in there. What we're talking about here is that you're in that level 4, where you also have a few increases, in that level very serious... In those numbers of increases, we are now taking a few steps back. You can do that without leaving level four. You don't go straight to level three. Would you do that, or to 2 or to 1, then you will have to deal with: what does that mean for the number of ic-records per day, twenty, ten? But we're not sitting there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u114	The point is that in that road map the OMT advises: if you are at the highest level, you should actually maintain the measures until you are at a level "vigilant" and then you can continue. But now the cabinet says: no, we have the roadmap, we are in the highest level and we are slowly going to skip back. While the pressure on the care is already enormous and every setback you have, goes right through the roof. And it is also clear from the graphs that were shown today during the technical briefing on the number of ic-recordings, that with these measures we are still in a very large curve up in uncertainty. What exactly is that about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u115	So what we're doing in the roadmap system is that, if you finally went from level 4 really all the way to 3 and to 2 and 1... We have shared with the Chamber what we believe are the signal values, how many weeks you must have and so on. What you're talking about here is that in level 4 with a number of increases, you take a few cautious steps back. That's what we do here. And that doesn't include having to have so many I.C. shots. There's no need for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u116	I'm gonna try one more time. The cabinet has asked three times for advice on exactly this point: can we create a de-escalation route map in which we slowly take steps back? And the OMT has given the same answer three times, namely: no, then you have to work with other signal values. And: you can't read that road map backwards. The OMT sees very little room for relaxation, so I ask the Prime Minister: what has been the idea here to do about this OMT advice three times?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u117	Three different discussions. One: how can you get back into the roadmap? I think we discussed that with the Chamber two debates back. I thought that was two or three debates back; no, two debates that you can take back steps and that there was certain... Well, how many ic-recordings et cetera. So that's what we discussed. And that goes very slowly at first. Actually, just like the hockey stick goes up, that goes down a bit with a hockey stick: that starts very slowly, and as you really go down to much lower infection rates, that can suddenly go a lot faster. That's what we discussed back then. The second discussion is what we are doing now. What we are doing now is: in that level 4, there are also a few increases. And what we're doing now with these increases, over a broader front, a few teeth back. This can be done within the roadmap; it is all in line with the system. And then there's the third question: why do you do that? That's a good question. And that's what yesterday's press conference was about, because strictly speaking, epidemiologically, you might not have to do that. Strictly speaking, you should say that even secondary education is closed. Strictly speaking, you should say: we leave everything as it is. Then what you do is ignore two things. And that, of course, is also the political and administrative responsibility that we have together. The first is that the damage to secondary school pupils seems to be becoming very extensive, as the OMT itself states. And they also bring in a lot of international investigations, which show how we all feel. We don't even need those studies; we all feel what that means for the development of young people, both psychologically and intellectually, and also in relation to others, if you allow that to continue for too long. The second consideration that the cabinet has made is that we say: you have to see if you can give a little more space, also on that broader front of the economy; but then you have to do it very carefully, because then you are actually starting to take a risk. We are really taking a risk here, and I think it is acceptable. And if that, partly because of this or other circumstances, leads to a very serious increase, then we should be prepared to reverse those economic expansions. That is what I said last night in the press conference: it is not irreversible. You should also be willing to reverse them. We think we can do this. This also includes the fact that we all have to do our best to stay at home in a positive test, I think, and not, as a quarter now does, to go outside. You also have to stay at home with complaints and not get tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u118	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u119	I really understand the pain and the deep misery in society that everyone is going through. Nobody wants to be in a lockdown. Everyone wants to be free again. But I do wonder whether this is a bit of a skipper's policy, let me just call it a bumping process, which will cause us to have a lot more damage in the long term. Is it not wise to also make a long-term road map? At least we have a kind of perspective: that's where we're going, and that's where the cabinet's ultimate goal is. 'Cause first we were gonna try and get covid under it. Now it is: covid becomes endemic. It's part of society, and we have to live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u120	There are two elements in this. The first element is the Roadmap. I believe that it is fully standing, both in the event of a rising situation and in the case of a falling situation. We have shared with the Chamber what needs to be done to really fall from one level to another. So that's just been discussed openly here. We hope, of course, that this situation will arise. What we're doing now is in that level 4 a few increases over a wider front carefully lower a tooth. That can also be done within the roadmap. The other question is, what's your strategy? Well, the strategy is, as you know, that you manage to control the number of infections so that the source and contact investigations can at least take place as well as possible, so that new outbreaks can be pampered as much as possible. This does not change from the idea that we have two objectives: to protect people with vulnerable health and elderly people and to ensure that health care also keeps room, in addition to this serious disease, for other important health care issues, such as diseases such as cancer, heart problems and other issues. So that hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u121	We're in the strictest lockdown in the world about. We are now getting some marginal relaxations, but even those are incomprehensible. Mr Van der Staaij has already pointed it out a bit. I would like to know, because I didn't think it was completely finished, what the ratio is for, or what the scientific basis is for, those two persons per store, or per floor floor, who are present for at least ten minutes. Has that been investigated? Of course, it's a very round number.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u122	No. That's what RIVM and OMT say. It is not possible to look very closely at the exact epidemiological impact of each measure. Then you get such a range of options, in terms of width. As the experts say: it is not a trumpet anymore but a trombone, if you look at the opening of the horn in the graph. It's of limited use. Then what you do is go back to... that's what we did last year when we thought about enlargement. How do you expand so, that...? In the end, last summer, I think we went too fast. When we started the enlargements last year, we looked at a number of things that have now been leading, namely: how do you limit the number of above-regional distributions? How do you limit repeat visits? Again, we don't all get a haircut every day. You don't usually have to leave your own town for the hairdresser. As much as possible one-on-one, so keep it limited. And see if it's possible to use the check, so ask people. You can do that because of those one-on-one. This is also possible with a shop, if the number of people in the store is very limited. If someone makes an appointment, the owner can of course ask if someone has complaints and ask a few other questions, so that the visit can take place safely. As those numbers rise, we can't do that anymore. If those numbers increase, of course, you also have the risk of people colliding more against each other. If there's infection, the virus skips.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u123	I understand. It was a very long answer. But, of course, it's about something simple and clear. I understand that round numbers are being chosen. But why isn't there a distinction between a Gamma or a Beehive and a neighborhood store? A Gamma might have a few thousand square feet. Then, without people colliding, you can allow a number of people per square metre?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u124	That's not a weird question at all, and it's not a weird thought at all. In the end, we made the decision not to do so for three reasons. First of all, it's exciting what we're doing right now, so we want to be careful. So we start now with the two per floor in a time lock of at least ten minutes, with the check call of course. The second reason is that, if the number of people entering the store increases again, the risk of people running against each other at the entrance and exit. There are currently 95,000 infectious agents and 550 people are in intensive care. A significant number of people are still infected and added every day, with a percentage of infections just below 10. That's why we want to be very careful. That's why. The third reason is enforcement. As I said to Kees van der Staaij, enforcement at this stage is also important. It's gonna be really hard when a enforcer has to check with a measuring tape to see if a store is big enough to allow more than two people per floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u125	I don't agree that it's exciting. The fact that there are so many infections is a fact when you qualify a positive PCR test as an infection. An optimum must be found between the enforcement and the ease of the rule. Then it must be true that you can say at a beehive or a Gamma: it has so many square meters that maybe twenty people can go in? That's not so hard, is it? The difference for the shopkeeper himself is enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u126	That's right, but at this stage, it has to be really careful. Now let's open the contact professions, but that's almost all one-on-one with triage and a limited number of repetitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u127	Mr President, with all due respect, that is not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u128	I'm just trying to finish my answer. It's already quite an extension. We do a few things in education, which are very exciting with all kinds of conditions, plus the expansion of sports for young people. In addition, we say: make it possible for shops to do this by appointment. That's limited at first. I recognize that. It will have real meaning for smaller things. For bigger things, but not for nothing, we are sending a letter to the Chamber today in which we say that we will continue to talk to the wholesale trade company, because we realize that it can still lead to problems in business operations there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u129	In fact, therefore, the Prime Minister agrees with me that it is a strange measure and that it does not work for large shops. But it is still possible not to opt for the support measures that you are now shielding with and instead just to see what can be done on those square meters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u130	Again, I do not think it is a strange measure that we are proposing. It is a measure that fits in with taking a limited risk at the moment. We'll do that over a broader front. At the MBO we also go further than the OMT recommends. At the vo we follow the OMT. We're doing a few things in the economy now. We are also doing something that the OMT, I believe, has not advised on, namely to expand sports for young people. So on a broader front, we are taking steps, because we think that there are specific issues for young people. In addition, you also try to do a few things in the economy. Hence these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u131	I'm just gonna finish up. So there's no scientific basis for those two people or those ten minutes. So it's really about being very exciting, and there's still fear of new infections. But no matter how you turn it or turn it around: if you determined that on the basis of the metrage, you don't have any more risk. You can't tell me that. But again, we're not getting out of this again. By the way, I had one more question about the models. Are you going to answer it, or is your colleague going to answer it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u132	If we both didn't answer that question at the end, please report back to me. But let's talk about the metrage. I understand that, but that means that more people are moving to the store, with more people in the store and more people at the entrance and exit, plus the enforcement. It is not strange at all what Mr Van Haga says. It's not like he's asking anything crazy. We just think that at this stage, you should start with caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u133	Yesterday, at the initiative of the Christian Union and D66, the House of Representatives organised a round table meeting with the Thinktank Corona crisis led by Mariëtte Hamer and the three directors of the planning agencies. They made a passionate plea there about the fact that we need to learn how to dance with the virus in the near future, as Mariëtte Hamer said so beautifully; we still have months to live with that virus, so we also need to consider that social side more broadly, as the cabinet has now announced to do. Both the think tank and the planning agencies say that we have very often issued opinions and reports over the past 12 months, and we already have a lot of data that would allow you to take that social side of the crisis much more into account in the decision-making process, and we are not really able to get through it in the cabinet where decision-making is concerned. When I hear the interrupting debates with Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van der Staaij, among others, on how to balance what can and cannot be done, the Prime Minister says very often: the OMT warns that it is a risk that we may not be able to take it now. That may be the case now for the short term, but it is also a matter of considering how people are maintaining the measures for the longer term. Can a little more opening not contribute to the support for the measures that you want to maintain? How does the cabinet intend to give better place to these opinions and data in its decision-making in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u134	It's a fair question. I come to the answer to the question but a preliminary remark. It is, of course, a question of balance, in the sense of how you weigh it in political and administrative decision-making, in addition to the immediate issues surrounding the fight against virus, its importance for those who are more vulnerable in health and are older and the importance of care for other tasks than just corona. We often talk about the "relaxation" of care, which I think is a very insulting term that I have also deleted from my vocabulary. Nurses and doctors don't want to be relieved at all. They just want to work hard but they not only want to work hard on covid patients but also want to work hard on fighting diseases, such as cancer and heart disease. So that's that. But there is a balance to be struck, a balance between this importance and the broad social impact. You can't have the pendulum going to the other side, because then you get at some point that it would get out of hand in the care, which of course we don't want. So you have to find a balance in it. I think we are doing this now by taking a first step, in the sense of taking a little more risk and going beyond perhaps the virologic expertise would advise us now. And then I come to Mr Jetten's question, and there are two things you have to do. The first is the broad social analysis these agencies carry out in policy. We have been doing this since the beginning but it is not very visible and, also admitted, it is not always dominant in our discussion. We have always sent it to the Chamber and it can also be found and in the decisions of the Catshuis you will find it all back, but it is not that we have spent too much time on it. So it's gotta be better. This is the broad social analysis of the SCP, the CPB, the PBL and the Mariëtte Hammer group. In the past we have also had the Halsema working group which was temporary and which has also done very important work on the position of young people. The second is that when you come to measures, you try to use their advice as much as possible to see what the impact of those measures is on the social, economic and psychological level. Furthermore, I call Ineke Sluiter, the President of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences, who has told us: also occasionally use us for very specific urgent opinions on parts. So we also want to do more because in science and also organized in the Academy a lot of knowledge is secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u135	That's very wise. In recent weeks, we have all felt that the rack is out and that we need to balance the fight against virus and the space that society needs better. But I have also heard many people say in the debate today that a few things were randomly picked out in yesterday's press conference that could suddenly happen. If you make those analyses insightful, it helps to bring people into it. I refer then to the offer made yesterday by the think tank and the planning agencies, which say: we have the dates to possibly extend the dashboard so that you can show it better. So I'd like the cabinet to pick up that hand-picking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u136	He's been arrested and we're gonna have to get the experience together. Maybe that won't go well all at once. It is actually still sailing on the compass of the Segers motion of May last year. This is really another big next step in that implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u137	Then there's another point. It was just about education. As D66'er, I am of course very happy that the secondary schools can be opened up again and that the MBO can also provide more physical education from next week, but I also understand the grinning of many students from the colleges and universities. It is that group of young people and many single people who are most affected by the curfew and by the visitation scheme. If you don't live in a family or a larger household, your social life has come to a huge standstill. They hoped that physical education at these colleges and universities would also offer them a bit of relief. In what time does the Prime Minister expect that with additional measures on those campuses, tests, masks and so on, there is also more physical education possible? We see that the reopening of higher education in North America leads young people to better follow the rules in the evenings and the weekends. Because they have something to do during the day, it is also better to stick to the corona rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u138	I agree, moreover, that this should be covered by a number of conditions. The OMT opinion shall also appoint it. It states how colleges and universities can prepare themselves for this. I can't say when, but as far as I'm concerned and as far as we're concerned, of course, you want that quickly. But it must be possible. They just need to see how it develops in the future. Again, I'll go back to the more classic side in the balance. We just have to keep seeing them, too. Today, when we entered the debate, there are 533 people lying on an ic-bed. And that number is slightly rising again. Ninety-five thousand people have been infected. There's still a high infection rate. Fortunately it is no longer above 10, it is now just below 10, but it is not yet the 5 we want. So it's not like we're out of danger either. On the contrary, everything points out that at some point we are going through that R1 again as that English virus continues to advance. So we have to keep looking for that balance. I cannot therefore state a date, but what we want, of course, also in the context of the discussion we have had here in the Chamber on that broader front, is to look again at what can be done in education next step. You want to see what can be done in culture. Can there be anything about theater and museums? What else can you do in the hospitality and gyms? They're all over the back now, because they don't get room in this round. So that's what we're gonna have to do. I hear very well what Mr Jetten is saying. Yes, as far as I am concerned, higher education will, of course, be heavily weighed into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u139	Finally. What strikes me, again in this debate, is that the Prime Minister, with many suggestions from the Chamber about what could possibly be open, points to too many mobility flows that would then be triggered and people who might then meet at the entrance. I understood that argument very well in the first and second lockdown, because we didn't know so much about the virus at the time, couldn't test massively and hadn't done a lot of testing. In the autumn, the gyms were open with strict rules and there were no infections. At the pilot events, such as that congress and the theatre performance, there have been no risks at all thanks to the tests in advance and afterwards. Rapid testing on campuses is just going very well. People get picked out and meanwhile all other students can just pass exams. When you see all that, shouldn't we get rid of that dogma about those transport flows and contact moments at the front door? Shouldn't we just bet even more massively on tests before and after and thus offer much more space?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u140	It's certainly true that testing is going to help us do this. Hugo de Jonge will go into that in a moment. Only, the capacity for that quickly builds up. And then, of course, you want to spread it. What can you do with it economically, what can you do in the cultural sector and in sport? But I agree that, of course, this is going to help us. And also, of course, the increase in vaccination rates. It's about the road to the light at the end of the tunnel. That light is of course, besides hopefully something of a medicine, now especially the combination of vaccination and testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u141	I do hear something about a broad balance that we are going to make between different sectors. But for my part, we had a deal. That agreement was that we said, okay, that curfew might be necessary, but most of all, to open that education. I am very pleased with the steps being taken for secondary education, but one day a week is only one day a week. I don't know why the HBO and the wo weren't taken in there. As far as I'm concerned, the Prime Minister hasn't explained that very well today either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u142	Simply because of the space there is now. In epidemiology, it's really limited. The opinion of the OMT states: "Strict yourself to the Vo. They don't say so much: one day a week. We say it must be at least one day a week, because we also want to prevent some schools from saying: let's just keep it completely at bay for a while. So we want them to be able to go to school at least one day a week, but under 1.5 metres and a few other conditions, which means that children and young people of that age are expected to attend school on average one and a half days a week. In the MBO, we'll say one day a week. We're doing more than the OMT suggests, over the full width, under- and superstructure mbo. That means we want to start with caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u143	Just for the record, there's really no room for anything. Also not for opening secondary schools. But we discussed this with each other here in Parliament. That was where the Prime Minister and I agreed that the mental damage for young people is enormous. It's so big that a longer lockdown for this group in education really doesn't go. You're not younger until you're 18. It's also about all those people who are studying right now. For that group the mental damage is at least as great and also the backlogs that are incurred there. So there's no room for anything, not even for the hairdressers and nail studios. Still, we make that choice. My question is: why didn't that choice fall on the students?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u144	We have actually decided three things at the same time, but isolated as much as possible. The first is based on the advice: keep the curfew and the one-visit house arrangement. If you didn't keep the curfew and the one-visit house arrangement, which refers to Mr Klaver's last interruption about how much space we have, you run the risk that at the end of March/beginning of April the number of people infected will rise enormously with the consequences for hospitals. The second is that there is an opinion from the OMT on the secondary schools. We weigh that heavily for the reasons that Mr Klaver calls it. Moreover, it is not the case that we are now imposing restrictions on these schools in the number of days when children are allowed to go there. On balance, it will probably amount to one and a half days a week due to the limitation of the 1.5 metres. That limitation is in the MBO, because we're doing more there than the OMT says. Then there is a third point. Let's say, from the thought that we've been struggling with the virus for a year now, let's see if you can make a little more room for people in society. Once again we are talking about young people with sport, but also about the measures relating to shopping, very limited of course, and the contact professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u145	That is an explanation of the choices that have been made, but no reason why students have not been taken. I find that problematic. There is constant reference, as Mr Jetten also says, to transport flows and accumulations. I am impressed by what the universities and colleges of applied sciences have done. I am impressed by all the tests that have been done with the rapid testing. I've spoken to them. They say: we can just get started next week. That will mean at 1.5 meters; that will mean where it can already be done with quick tests; that may mean just one day a week. They can handle this. I really don't understand why we're not gonna be able to go to school anymore. The damage's getting too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u146	Then I don't understand what Clover said before. He said, "There's actually no room. I agree with him. At the same time, there's a lot of damage and then you have to prioritize. Then we opt for secondary education, in line with the opinion of the OMT. At the MBO we even go one step further. Mr Klaver says: do HBO and university now. I want to, and I agree with him, but I can't do that right now. No, I really think that's gonna be a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u147	The weighting is different, namely: nothing can actually be done, only we dare to take the risk in secondary education and the MBO take that step, but not with students. Then you make a distinction between young people under 18 years of age and above. That's what the Prime Minister does. That's the choice there is. I suggest you don't do that, all the more so because there are other ways to get that R down. I referred to that in my contribution. An excellent research has been done by a number of scientists, including Mr Kluytmans and Mr Bonten from the OMT, which shows that with the periodic tests throughout the Netherlands I said every month but I meant every week the R could get down by 0.3. That is much more effective than curfew and much more effective than closing schools. In other words, we are now a year further, there are other options, and the cabinet still chooses not to open universities, for example, while there are other options with that testing. I don't understand that, and I think it's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u148	I believe that Mr Klaver is making a contradiction here that I do not feel. I agree with him that testing combined with vaccination helps us on our way to the exit. In the press conference yesterday and in the letter we sent today, you have seen what we are building up. This will be important for a wide range of sectors, including education. Quick tests and all kinds of developments that are currently taking place will help to further open society. I agree with Mr Klaver. At the moment we have the question of how the secondary schools with the 1.5 meters will be starting next Tuesday. If it was no problem at all at 1.5 meters and everything could just go on without epidemiological risks, those schools would have opened up earlier. But of course it's not like that. We know by now, and that is why we had to make that difficult decision for Christmas, which also leads to transport movements and the risk that people will transfer the virus, even if you can maintain that 1.5 metres, but you cannot always maintain it. That would also apply to higher education. You want it as soon as possible, but we think it's really too big a risk to do that right now. But I hope, of course, that it can be done quickly, just as Mr Klaver hopes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u149	I see the risk the other way. If we do not open higher education, I see as a risk an even greater mental damage for these young people, for this whole generation. I have one more question about the speed tests. The Prime Minister points out that there is no difference of opinion and that this can be done. I have asked how many are currently in stock in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u150	I don't have that number here right now. Mr De Jonge will respond to that in a moment. But on the first point: what Mr Klaver is doing is stacking risks. It's good to establish that. He can't deny that either. We take a risk with secondary education, at 1.5 metres, but it wasn't closed for nothing. We take an extra risk with the MBO, one day a week plus 1.5 meters et cetera, but up to one day a week. He says, "Take in all the universities and colleges of applied sciences." I respect that he thinks so, and I actually think so, but I don't think it's possible right now. I will then go to the other side of the scale, because even in the balance now it is more and more a scale. You need to find the balance between the number of people currently in hospital, the number of people that are now infected and the rate of infection every day. I don't think that's wise right now. Let us now see what this does, gain experience with each other and then hope that we can go further with this in a next step. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u151	The Prime Minister should not do this, almost accusing him with "risks piled here."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u152	Yeah, I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u153	The cabinet has decided to open shops and contact professions further. Everyone makes choices here, knowing that space is limited to that. I'll make another choice. The choice is not only between physical health and mental health; in it you also have to make choices. The risk of non-opening universities must also be weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u154	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u155	I think that the Prime Minister is doing far too little here, especially when you see the mental damage to these young people. The non-opening has immense risks and he doesn't go along with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u156	But that's always a trade-off, isn't it? Nor do I hear Mr Klaver say: leave the hairdressers closed and open the colleges. For the companies there is also enormous damage, both mentally and economically, and for the families, just as for the students. Each time it is a consideration, with the very limited space that there is, or isn't really there. We are now creating a little space by taking a limited risk. In addition, there are the political discussions previously held here to take smaller steps on a broader front. We try to distribute this as fairly as possible, and we also realise that this step unfortunately does not apply to universities and colleges, but also not to theatres, museums, gyms and restaurants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u157	The last question, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u158	This is interesting, because the Prime Minister is trying to bounce something back to me, by saying: what do you want with the hairdressers? Let me put it this way: if hairdressers wouldn't open, if the nail studios would stay closed and if the shops wouldn't open, could higher education have opened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u159	I wouldn't dare say that, because then you would have to make the trade-off again. We have dangers on the compass of the thought that I thought was also living here in the Chamber, namely to try to take steps on a broader front. Sorry, we are trying to take into account the social consensus as much as possible, realizing that what we are now creating opportunities for young people up to 27 years of age to exercise again can harm someone with a company that cannot open up or the people who work there and who are afraid to lose their jobs. That must also be taken into account. This goes back to the core task of Klaver and me and all of us here: making choices in scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u160	Yes, Mr. Clover...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u161	I find this striking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u162	What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u163	Well, Mr. Clover knows what I mean. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u164	I find this striking. The Prime Minister says that we have not actually made that assessment; then I should go back to that decision. We had a deal with each other that we would be the first to open the education. By this we meant the whole education and now the Prime Minister says: we could; we need to look at the wider perspective. I'll be curious. He says to me "maybe higher education can open up if you wouldn't want to do those other measures," but I do think that this consideration must have been made explicitly by the cabinet. There were two things on the table: can we open the shops a little more or higher education? A choice has been made. That can be done, but that must be transparent. Is that the choice that was made on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u165	The question that has been raised in the Chamber has never been: the education is open. We talked about doing primary schools first. When they were open, we said: and now priority is secondary schools. That's what we're doing now. That's how the discussion went. It wasn't about the education, it was about the secondary schools. I would also like to see universities and universities of higher education open up as we speak, but that is simply not possible right now. I don't think that's wise. In addition, it is agreed to try to look over a broader front at what smaller movements you can make when there is space. There is no such thing now, strictly speaking, but there is some room under the cover of taking a limited risk. We are now trying to distribute this space as fairly as possible, bearing in mind, in particular, the fact that the risks of this distribution are limited. Mr. Chairman. The good news is that many of these questions, which I wanted to answer, have already been answered. I just can't name the questioners anymore, because then it's double-up. A question from Mr Wilders was why it could not come into force earlier. That really has to do with the legislation. A ministerial arrangement with these measures must be submitted to the two Chambers under Article 58c, paragraph 2, of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and cannot enter into force until one week after that. On the field labs, I would like to say that once the results are available and conclusions can be drawn, we will look at how this can lead to a wider application, also in the context of the Dijkhoff motion. The same applies to the catering industry. Then there was a question about a... I didn't hear that question like that, but I can see the answer in my answer set. So the officials must have heard that question. According to them, Mr Heerma has asked whether the cabinet sees opportunities to ask for solidarity with shops that have been implementing much more recently. The cabinet believes that a specific or targeted solidarity levy is complicated, also because it is almost impossible to define it. It is also complex in European law. In addition, you cannot introduce a tax with retroactive effect. Moreover, it also affects companies that suffered from the corona crisis and will soon return to normal profits. Then the question about outdoor sports over 27 years old. I would also love to work out outside the age of 27, but here too, we must, of course, look at the space that exists and take informed risks within it. We are thus in line with the age limit of the Participation Act, but also with other public policies that use that limit for up to 27 years. We believe that this is now a responsible risk. I think I've answered all the questions about education thanks to the interruptions. Perhaps I still have something to say about Mrs Ploumen's question. She asked whether, within secondary education, one could look at opportunities for teaching in places where more people could go. We thought we would do that in a next step, but we have chosen to do so in this step. Now to the question of communication. I always take this criticism very much to heart and that also applies to Pieter Heerma's suggestion on that particular point. Thank you for that. I think Mr Jetten's question on the strategy has also been answered in the interruptions. If he doesn't, I'll hear about it. If you allow another round of questions, Mr President, I will answer some questions about the economy, the support packages, the food banks and the elections. I think I answered the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u166	Then I have Mr Heerma, Mr Segers and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u167	This last piece was big steps, fast home. As a result, I have to ask the questions I had in one go. I'm just gonna finish them. The first question is about the field labs. Mr Segers then followed Mr Heerma and Mr Van der Staaij asked for an extension to churches.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u168	Hugo de Jonge is about to go into the field labs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u169	That'll be a conversation instead of a question. Then it's about solidarity. My story about solidarity, which was apparently picked up by officials, was about the fact that a number of online retailers and supermarkets are going to sell more and more and more and so become increasingly involved in retail sales. My question is: what can the cabinet do to achieve greater solidarity in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u170	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u171	I'm gonna finish all my questions, 'cause it just happened real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u172	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u173	Solidarity is not only: what should be European and fiscal? It's also about having conversations with those companies, like: you shouldn't do this; if you are going to do it, you're going to destroy the retail business locally. I raised that point earlier. I expect a little more from the cabinet when it comes to enforcing solidarity when the cabinet sees it as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u174	Now I understand the question better. I didn't understand that question like that. I shall come back to it in the second term, because I think it is a good point. I'd like to check a few things, but I understand the question better now. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u175	Then it's about communication. The Prime Minister says he's going to take it to heart. He said earlier during an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen that he did not think he said anything remarkable. The news did pick it up. That says he said that the road map is being released. I think the Prime Minister should take care of that. Maybe he needs to say something clearly here: no, he doesn't. 'Cause it's getting noise. Look at the debate here. My last question is about the catering industry. Both I and Mr Dijkhoff have noted that sometimes group formation takes place at the take-out points. It's human behavior that people go there. If people are gathered up next to a terrace that is further empty, shouldn't the cabinet explicitly look at how these terraces can be used to spread more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u176	Moreover, I fully agreed with that part of the argument. I had not heard so much a question in that, but I will make it clear that I agreed with that part of the argument. We really need to look very closely. I often use Vilnius as an example. That was the first city to use the power of terraces to spread people in the city at the first major corona outbreak. Moreover, we do not think it is wise to do so at this stage, because terraces also have a sucking effect. Therefore, in the current space we are looking for when taking an informed risk, we think that it is not wise. But having a conversation about it and seeing what can be done next, I think it is wise. So I simply agree with the two gentlemen's argument on this point. Then the final point, about communication. I have just said that the road map has not been released. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u177	Mr Van Haga and then Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u178	I still have a question about the schools. I didn't quite realize they were answered by the Prime Minister. The 1.5 meters make it very difficult, but they all do. I wonder how workable some set rules are. In primary schools, one class has one teacher, sometimes two. But in high school, especially in upper education, a student sometimes has nine classes and nine teachers. Then if one person gets a report of the corona app or has a positive PCR test done, should all those nine classes and all those nine teachers collectively be quarantined?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u179	No. De Jonge has it in his answers. I did the education in terms of enlargement, the fun part, and Mr. De Jonge takes up education in relation to testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u180	I just saw him shake no. So we can deal with it very quickly. Isn't it true? No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u181	The answer is no, but you want an explanation. Then you'll have to wait until he has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u182	I'm gonna wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u183	I'm gonna stand here at the most right-hand microphone. I've never done that before. The problem, of course, is that, among other things, mayors make statements like: I understand everything, I give it to everyone and maybe it should open. Of course, that also has a sucking effect, if you feel that the terraces may not be open, but all or many mayors radiate that they are not going to maintain or pass the police and nothing happens. Couldn't those conversations about those terraces with the mayors include either they're open or they're closed? When they're closed, I understand that catering entrepreneurs don't want people sitting on their terraces where they can't serve them. Somewhere out there, we need to see what's feasible. We cannot tell ourselves in the Chamber that they cannot open because there is no room for it, what I accept and understand, but that they are then occupied because there is no local maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u184	How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u185	Now it's still possible. Let's talk about the hospitality and the sucking effect. While we are having this debate, I get images of Rotterdam. A catering entrepreneur is neatly closed, but takes pictures of his terrace through the windows of his own building. He's done that nicely with ribbons, but people have gone under the ribbon and are just sitting on the terrace. There are police cars driving by, because the police station is wrong, but there is no enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u186	No, I get that. That is, of course, incredibly frustrating for the entrepreneur in whom that happens. That leads to a lot of anger. So I totally get that. We will certainly involve this in further developing the suggestion made by both Heerma and Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u188	All I had to do was talk about the support packages and two more separate questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u189	But I can see Mr Wilders standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u190	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't think the answer to the question of the catering industry was anything. I think the VVD colleague said "or maintain or open them" and you just say "I understand." Well, I don't understand that at all. Mr President, on the issue of vaccines. I see that I would like to ask the Prime Minister, although we will be able to speak to Mr De Jonge in a moment about the fact that we still have a chronic shortage of vaccines in the first and second quarters, especially now in the first quarter. Now, last time you remembered, Minister De Jonge also made a point of the Sputnik vaccine, the vaccine from Russia. It was then suggested whether we could buy it or buy the recipe and produce it here. If you have that recipe, I think you should be able to do it in a pretty short time if you find a producer for it here. It is, as you know, a great vaccine, with more than 90% effectiveness. I called it the Rolls Royce under the vaccines, a Russian Rolls Royce then. Other countries use it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u191	I wouldn't want that one anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u192	No, but without madness, isn't it an idea? Have you called Mr Putin yet? Wouldn't it be a possibility? The large numbers of the 30, 10 and 84 million vaccines we get, that's all later this year. We're still short. Could you, once again, call Mr Putin, Mrs Merkel, as Prime Minister, and ask if we can do business on that vaccine that he has and that is so successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u193	The point is that it will then have to go through the European Medicines Agency. I don't know what that's like now. Maybe Hugo has that answer right away, but I don't think they've applied to the EEA yet, and that's really up to Russia. Moreover, I believe I have understood from the media that there is also a point in the number of vaccines, that sufficient vaccines must also be available to the Russians themselves. So it's not that black and white. It's not like it's a taboo. If a vaccine works, I don't care if it's from Russia or China or America. If it works, it works. I agree with Wilders. I don't know if it's the Rolls Royce versus the Porsche of AstraZeneca or someone else's Opel Kadett. I don't know any of that. Let's leave the car brands out of it. Besides, a Russian Rolls Royce, I'd like to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u194	That's a completely different frame of reference, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u195	But there's no taboo. There is absolutely no taboo on that vaccine, but it must also be safe. That means that you also want European admission to happen properly. You're gonna stick something in healthy people to make sure they don't get sick. That's why that admission threshold is so high, so people can use that vaccine confidently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u196	The Prime Minister compared it to AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca has an effectiveness of around 60% and Sputnik of around 93%, so that is comparable to BioNTech/Pfizer in terms of result. It has also been published in international magazines, such as The Lancet, and widely recognized as something successful. Again, the Prime Minister is right when it comes to whether there is enough for the Russians. Another option is of course to ask if it can be produced here. Your colleague, Mrs Merkel, from the Federal Republic of Germany, even though it has not yet been notified to the EEA, has already contacted himself twice spontaneously, once in December and once in mid-January, with Putin to see if he can't move to do more, for example to sell or give that recipe so that we can produce it here. My question to you is, especially now that we still have shortages and that just a very successful vaccine is indeed, wherever it comes from, we need them to contact Putin, just like Mrs Merkel did, to see if it helps them move to have it produced earlier here. Our people simply have an interest in this, and if it were from another country, I would ask you the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u197	Two responses. One. The formal authorisation will then go through the EEA, even if you would produce it here; of course that does not matter. The vaccine itself must have been approved. Two. The relationship between Angela Merkel and Vladimir Putin is not brilliant but effective. The relationship between me and Vladimir Putin is, as you know, a little less because of course we have had some other discussions with each other since 2014. So I don't know if it's gonna help much if I'm gonna call Vladimir Putin myself and say, "Oh, dear Vladimir, come on with your vaccine." So we are, of course, monitoring all developments. I am always willing to call anyone and everything, but I honestly doubt the added value of a personal call from me to Moscow right now. That's a more diplomatic assessment. I doubt that, also given the somewhat difficult relationship between the Netherlands and Russia at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u198	I understand the latter, and I also understand how it happened. I have no other negative opinion on that either. I'm just saying, there are bigger interests now. The Russians have an effective vaccine that the Netherlands could use very well. I guess it's just good to step over each other's shadows for a while. I think it's good to say, "Listen, you guys have a vaccine, we could really use it. Okay, we're in trouble, but we'll talk about that some other time." I know it is a little more complicated in international diplomacy, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister. I think a lot of Dutch people agree with me. If there is any chance that a phone call from you to Mr Putin means that a successful vaccine might be produced here sooner than... Well, let me put it this way: not shooting is always wrong. You can come back and say: I tried, but it didn't work. Then you will not be criticised by me or the rest of the Chamber. But you can try, and maybe you can. Then we have a wonderful vaccine in the Netherlands that we can make people happy with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u199	But you also don't want "not shot" to lead to a "own goal." First of all, of course, we have agreed to do this vaccine buy-in together with the other Member States of the European Union. Contacts between Merkel and Putin are always in function of this European cooperation. There doesn't need to be a second doubt that I would make the call immediately if I thought it would add anything. My job as Prime Minister is to make an appraisal. My assessment is that because of the MH17 file and all the problems surrounding it, so because of that terrible disaster with that plane on July 17, 2014, the relationship between the Netherlands and Russia, and with that also the personal relationship between me and Putin has deteriorated so much that I see that such a call has a counter-effect rather than a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u200	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u201	But if I thought, "It works"? There's no doubt I'd do it then. I mean, I stand here for Dutch interest and no other interest. But I don't think it's in Dutch interest right now. That's why I'm not considering it right now. But if at any point, after weighing, I think differently, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u202	Finally, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u203	I'm sorry, but I can't force you to do that. But perhaps it could be considered differently to check a little at diplomatic level. Perhaps our ambassador in Moscow can do that, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America, could check out a Russian diplomat here in The Hague. We still have Russian diplomats here in The Hague. Then it will not come straight to the Prime Minister's level, but at least it will be examined diplomatically between the countries whether there is any chance of success or whether it is totally pointless. That's not too much to ask, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u204	No, I just don't have to respond to that. Because the odds of that kind of route working will increase if you don't talk about it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u205	It is about a month since we tabled a motion on the responsible opening of hairdressing. Then the Prime Minister said in his reply in the second term that it was unwise to do so. We have seen that in the meantime there are about the same figures, about the same expectations. The Prime Minister has indicated that there has been a weighing moment. He says, "We've weighed differently now." So I wonder what changed compared to last month.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u206	Well, quite a bit, of course. In January, of course, we had to deal with the great concern about the English virus. We also had a very high number of infections per day at that time. At that time, those numbers were considerably higher than they are at the moment. Of course, the number of infections has fallen somewhat. It's still significant, but it's a lot less. At that time, the number of infections was substantially higher. Of course, at that time there was also the uncertainty about that British variant. At that time there was also a big question of what that variant would mean for children. The schools were all closed as well. At that time we said: we are going to do education first, that is a priority. First of all, primary education and then secondary education succeeded. There is also the issue of society, the balance. I was just having a discussion about that with Rob Jetten. The balance between the medical side but also the social damage over a broader front, which we naturally have to weigh as much longer as it takes, even more than if it would be shorter. With that, there is a sum of factors that make this moment different from six weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u207	That's not true, because when we talked to each other here six weeks ago, we also talked about the prospect and perspective of many people. At the time, there were also comments on what exactly that British variant would do. I see that the level of contamination of the British variant is constantly adjusted downwards. There was indeed concern about children at that time, but that point was also called into question in the House of Representatives. We talked about that, too. We discussed all the arguments put forward by the Prime Minister, six weeks ago, four weeks ago, two weeks ago and last week. And now we come up with a simple argument: "it's the sum total" and "we've made the balance very different now." That doesn't sound credible. I honestly wonder what's different now. Perhaps it has something to do with the perspective of the elections in a few days' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u208	I do not quite understand the reaction, because what Mr Kuzu calls now is all arguments why you could not do it then and perhaps now. I actually agree with Kuzu's argument. Only, his conclusion is a different one than mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u209	I note that today the Prime Minister agrees with all the critical questions, but always comes up with a different conclusion. I think we're dealing with the same facts here. When we look at these facts, we should come to the same conclusions. Again, six weeks ago, it was "unresponsible to do." Those were the words the Prime Minister used about reopening hairdressing. And now suddenly it's possible to relax. Many Dutch people wonder what has changed in recent times. They deserve an honest answer, based on the facts. We see that the facts are the same. That should lead to the same conclusions, so just admit it honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u210	I shall then repeat them again, because I do not suddenly have new facts in relation to a minute ago. At that time, the number of infections was substantially higher. That's fact number one. Two. At that time we did not know what the English variant would mean for the infectiousness of children, an important element. A third element: the schools were still completely closed. We said: if there is some room, we want to open the primary schools, the primary schools, and then we want to try to open the secondary schools. Fortunately, primary schools are open and fortunately we can now deal with secondary schools, albeit with limitations. Those are really things that are different now than they were then. Apart from that, you can find that as it lasts longer next Saturday is the year since the first corona contamination was found in the Netherlands...................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u211	Then I suggest you move on to a round-up, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u212	Mr President, I was fully prepared for a response, but it did not come. Just a few things. First perhaps briefly about the economy. A letter was sent today, I believe this morning. We have shown that it is fortunately possible to use part of the extra space provided by the European support framework in the TVL for the first and second quarters. This means that the maximum grant a company can receive per quarter is increased to €550,000 for SMEs and €600,000 for non-SMEs. It is also important that the stock subsidy for the closed retail sector is increased to €300,000 in the first quarter of 2021. This is an increase estimated at about EUR 375 million, rounded up to EUR 400 million. In addition, as has already been said, we are talking to the wholesale trade company, because this is not helping. This helps you get up to five or ten retail stores in a group. Of course, you also have very large companies that have many more. So, as I said before, we are also going to see what you can do with companies that have a lot of branches to see what their financial position is and what might have to be done there. Then there was a question about the situation after this crisis: how do you deal with all the problems that have been built up? Mrs Ploumen and others have asked for this. That's what we're working on. We want to publish more about this in the second quarter of the year. Of course, that's what the IRS is looking at. Then it is about the accumulated tax debt, what is further possible and also how the Tax Administration handles remedial requests. Of course, this also takes into account the opportunity of companies to make that start-up. We've already talked about the partner income test in the Tozo. Why isn't it deleted? Since we have been talking for so long, I should like to refer to that part of the previous debates. I understood that another motion would be tabled, but I think it would be wise, on balance, not to change the situation there now. Mr President, perhaps I can finish all the remaining questions first. The SP as well as the VVD have asked for the support and restoration package for the catering industry. There, of course, a great deal has been done in recent times to create new arrangements, which in themselves also breathe with the economic conditions. We must also bear in mind that this accumulation of the extension of the aid and recovery package requires a great deal from the implementation organisations, which are gradually running against the limits of what they can do. These packages have now been expanded by nearly 8 billion, bringing them to 61 billion in total. Anyway, as an individual company, you don't have anything else to buy if you weren't helped enough for the time being. That is why we continue to keep our finger on the pulse to see if the aid measures have the desired effect. On this specific point also applies that if people's income falls away and if they are self-employed, they are eligible for support through the Tozo. If that is not sufficient or if an entrepreneur is not eligible, then there is also the Temporary Support Necessary Costs. It can also provide a solution. This concerns households and entrepreneurs who are no longer able to meet the necessary costs due to an unforeseen and inevitable fall in income. It is being worked very hard to get this done as soon as possible. A hand-out has now been published by the municipalities and they are now preparing for implementation on this specific point. The aviation sector has, of course, been severely affected by travel restrictions. Like other sectors, this sector also receives public support to cope with the crisis, because of course we want to try to get the country to reach the end of the crisis across a broad front in common. Then there was a question about students reporting to the food banks. I can say that we are in close contact with the food banks. We're also providing support. There was another discussion on 16 November with the then Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, also on behalf of the Minister of LNV. In the meantime, this spring, as you know, the Minister of SZW will inform you more about the progress of the "successor" of the SZW Secretary of State and the Minister of LNV. There are also substantial additional financial resources allocated to the poverty and debt approach as a result of the corona crisis. This amounts to EUR 146 million. In doing so, we work together with the VNG and municipalities to accelerate poverty and debt policies. Finally, Mr President, on the election. We think they can take place safely. Of course, we must always look at recent developments, but we really believe that it is possible to organise the elections safely. There are also all the conditions for this. This means that, on behalf of the entire cabinet and perhaps also on behalf of the whole Chamber, I would like to call on everyone to exercise that democratic right and to actually vote. It's safe. For certain groups this can also be done by post and it can also spread over several days. All municipalities are working very hard to ensure that this is done safely within all directives. Mr President, those were all the questions that were left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u213	Mrs Marijnissen, then Mrs Van Esch and then Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u214	I want to talk to the Prime Minister about the partner test, because if you're alone and if one of you can't do his or her job because of that virus and can't take orders, it's super unfair that you won't get any support if your partner does have income. The Prime Minister is getting over it too easily and too quickly, and he says: I do not want to talk too much about it today, because we have talked about it so many times. Yes, we have talked about this many times, because it is also a very unjust measure. But we want to talk about it again today, and we want to talk about it again, because the longer this crisis lasts... Those partner tests are already killing me, but the longer that crisis takes, the more it's gonna get stuck, and the more people really get in trouble and just don't make it anymore. So our request to the cabinet, especially now that this crisis is going to last even longer, is: cancel that partner test now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u215	Yes, I understand, of course, that in certain circumstances it can be really very complicated because of the partner test, but I still think there are arguments why it is wise to keep it. This is primarily due to the fact that, where there is so much money to be made available to support our economy and our beautiful businesses and the people who work there, but also, of course, all kinds of institutions that are not in the hard economy but are of great importance, in the cultural sector and so on, you want to avoid that the money might also go to entrepreneurs with a earning partner, or even with a well-earning partner. I think that's inevitable, because the costs are huge and you have to make choices. That's reason one. The second is that for entrepreneurs who would have difficulty in paying the fixed and necessary costs of the household, for these costs of course that separate TONK is being worked out. It is also more targeted and accessible to people, especially for single entrepreneurs, for example, who would not have been helped by abolishing the partner income test. Finally, there is a problem of implementation. I have just said: UWV, the implementation organisation of Economic Affairs, but also social services and municipal implementation capacity are under enormous pressure because of the major problems that arise here. And that municipal implementation capacity is needed to implement that TONK and also to support entrepreneurs in their reorientation. I think that these are arguments which, as far as I am concerned, ultimately lead to the choice of allowing that partner income test to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u216	You can't do this! This is about people who really just got stuck and got stuck. And these are not arguments, as the Prime Minister says, these are just bureaucratic excuses. This TONK, which is now being referred to, is another arrangement that is still being worked out, the Prime Minister says. It's no good to people now. And that it would all be difficult in the execution... No, it gets easier, because there's a test that has to be done differently with a lot of extra work and a lot of extra bureaucracy. Our proposal is correct: take that test off. So it doesn't get harder and more complicated; it gets easier. It will not be more difficult to implement; it will become more feasible. But much more importantly: it is super unfair if there are two people, who also have a household, which of course is often based on two incomes... If you work together and an income falls away, and not because you've done something wrong or because you've made a mess of it but because we're dealing with a rotten virus and because of the measures you just can't do your job, then it's only natural that you get support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u217	I understand that whole argument, but in the end, we also have to make choices. And I think that in a situation where we as a country need to free up a great deal of resources to guide our economy and our cultural sector and other sectors through this crisis and to ensure that we, as much as possible, together with all of us, reach that finish line, we should also try to make the best possible use of that money. And what you do if you didn't have the partner income test is also providing resources to entrepreneurs with a earning partner, or even with a well-earning partner. So I totally understand Mrs Marijnissen's argument, but I think you should make choices here as well. And I also think it really is a socially responsible choice to say: let there be that partner income test in this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u218	I don't think that's socially responsible. I think it's antisocial and unfair. And the Prime Minister shouldn't hide behind "yes, then maybe money will go to people who don't need it." Well, even if there were some people in there who might not actually need it... I'd say anything better than the situation right now, where people just break down, just don't make it. I just mentioned the figures on how many extra people have reported to the food bank. In the Netherlands, in such a rich country as we are! I thought there were deep pockets. That's what the Cabinet promised. Surely there are billions of loans or gifts granted to KLM and other companies and you name it? If your partner earns a little more than the minimum wage, you don't get anything. Well, why don't you get on it if you're gonna be in this crisis for so long and have to survive. Because that's what people have to do right now. I think it is really antisocial and unfair for the cabinet to look away from it and say: we have to make choices. Then, as far as I'm concerned, this cabinet makes the wrong choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u219	I share the intensity of the situation described by Mrs Marijnissen and which affects a great many people. That's something that affects us all incredibly. I don't think we need to convince each other of the seriousness of the situation. In the end, it is up to us to see how we can resolve this as wisely as possible. At the same time, we must also make choices, because unfortunately it cannot always be and-and-so. You'll have to make choices in it, because eventually there are limitations, no matter how deep the pockets are. Then I find it justifiable that the cabinet holds that partner income test, because it ensures that the money is used where the money is most needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u220	If Mark Rutte, if the Prime Minister really says this in this way, if the money doesn't go to the places where it... then you have no idea what's going on right now. Our mailboxes really explode through messages from people who work in healthcare or education and who have a partner who works in the cultural sector or in the catering industry. They say, "For the past ten months, we have taken on everything we have. Our family or our friends helped us and we're out. There's nothing left. We'll get into debt." When KLM arrives and needs more money, I'm sure the cabinet will say: of course, here's another bag of money. All we're asking is, please, take that partner test off. Once again, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to reconsider taking that partner test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u221	Then I ask Mr Klaver to tell the whole story. I agree with him on his own. I'm getting those e-mails, of course. We all hear those signals. That is at all the tragedy of this terrible pandemic: no matter what we do here with all of us, there are still a lot of people and companies who are having a terrible time. But the whole story is that not only is there that partner test, but that we have reached political agreement on that Temporary Support Necessary Cost. This is precisely aimed at households that are no longer able to meet necessary costs due to unforeseen and inevitable decline in their income. I think that in that combination we do it decently in the Netherlands. Of course, with a big heart I would also prefer to say: take off all those keys. But I think we should say here as a Chamber and as a parliament towards the Netherlands: there are also choices to be made in this scarcity that is ultimately there. It's a difficult choice, but I think it's justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u222	I find this almost embarrassing. The billions are really blowing our brains out. Again, when KLM shows up, we're gonna say, "Yeah, guys, we're gonna have to be careful with those deep pockets of the government." So we're not going to give KLM any support? I don't think so. Then this cabinet is at the forefront of just supporting KLM where it is needed. And there is quite a chance that this will also be supported in the Chamber. The Prime Minister said to us: you have to be careful that the money doesn't go to people with a much-earning partner. How many people are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u223	Yeah? That was a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u224	Let's talk about the KLM first. That is such a contradiction, as if this cabinet loves to give billions to KLM all day long. That's where 30,000 people work. KLM is also important for the Netherlands, just like every entrepreneur is important, and every café and every restaurant. On that very broad front, we need to push the economy. That's from the KLM to the pub and the bar boss on the corner and everything in between, the cafes, restaurants, restaurants, restaurants, but also, of course, the cultural sector, museums, theatres, cinemas, everything. We all have to do that. The counter is now over 60 billion. That's not my money. That's not Mr. Klaver's money. That's money we all need to borrow. Fortunately, we can do that because we have deep pockets. But in there, it's inevitable that you make choices. There's no other way. That's what I'm telling Mr. Klaver. I think it can be defended, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u225	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u226	Finally, Mr President, I would like to repeat my question. Because I had a pretty simple question. The Prime Minister says that it will be abused whenzzp'ers lose their income but have a partner who deserves so much that they don't actually need it. How many people are we talking about who are going to potentially take advantage of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u227	That was the question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u228	Of course, I didn't just get that figure ready, but the partner income test is there for a reason. That's because that's how you make sure that the resources are used where they're most needed. That's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u229	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u230	Yes, Chairman, concluding. I find this rather shocking, to be honest. The Prime Minister says here to Mrs Marijnissen that it is really not possible because people are going to take advantage of it. Then I want to know: how many people are likely to take advantage of that? Is that half the group? Maybe I'll be on the Prime Minister's side. But I dare give him a note saying it's not about 50%. It's about a few percent of people who could take advantage of this. We are afraid that the money may go to a small group that doesn't need it, and that is why we leave the vast majority of thezzp'ers who need support in the cold. I think that's a wrong choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u231	The discussion isn't about taking advantage if the partner test wasn't there. There's no abuse at all. No, the question is, how do you make sure that government resources end up where they are most needed? That's the discussion. This prevents the resources from being used wherever that is good and useful.It's always useful, but you don't do it as well as possible. That's not a question of abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u232	First Mrs. Van Esch and then Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u233	I think it is a nice little bridge to the question I wanted to ask about support for KLM. Among other things, it amounts to 1 billion NOW aid. One company alone, KLM, has been supported by 3.4 billion. The second round of support seems to be coming gently again, so it sings around. With the Party for Animals, the question remains why we are not going to impose conditions, and especially sustainable conditions. We know that we are also in a climate crisis. We know that this is the moment to come out of the corona crisis with lasting recovery. This calls for a very large part of society, including internationally. If it sings around again that we are going to put billions back into this one company, are we going to set conditions for the possibility of aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u234	At KLM 30,000 people work and to paraphrase Diederik Samsom: that is 30,000 very good reasons to support that company. This is indeed about billions, but in total the numerator now stands at about EUR 61 billion for all the corona measures for our entire economy, including the cultural sector, sport and so on. We do this for good reasons, because we want to try to reach the finish line together as a country. I understand Mrs van Esch's question, at least, that you should also make all kinds of additional demands on that company. My view would be: this particular company itself does a lot to operate as environmentally friendly as it can operate. It runs first in terms of sustainability. In my opinion, KLM is not very concerned about this. This company is facing the most serious crisis since the Second World War, and perhaps in its existence. If you, as a government on top of that, impose on this company all kinds of additional environmental requirements that are not imposed in other countries to that extent, then I know one thing for sure: then you run a very high risk of the company getting into serious problems. I don't think it's wise. You shouldn't be stacking the problems anymore. As soon as the situation is somewhat normalized, we will, of course, talk to all the companies to make the transition. We have all the legislation under the Climate Agreement to encourage companies to achieve environmentally friendly production and working methods in a sensible way within their investment cycles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u235	In my view, the climate crisis we are currently in is still underestimating. That's what worries me. KLM knows it has to shrink. Only shrinking aviation can bring us out of the climate crisis. Shrink of aviation is the only option before us. You could say very well now: all those people who work there will have to go to a more sustainable job. That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u236	All these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u237	A lot of these people need to get to a more sustainable job. And so we could very well make that kind of deal with KLM right now. A blank cheque of billions in the climate crisis in which we are now in, gives us the feeling that this cabinet has not yet considered the urgency and sustainable recovery from the corona crisis as an option at all. We are very concerned about that. The lights are coming up now. You just indicated that we are planning how to get out of the crisis, but it does not feel like there is a sustainable plan to get out of that crisis. There has to be, also towards the KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u238	What we are doing now is pumping or drowning all of us and making sure that together with all those beautiful companies and the people who work there and with all those cultural institutions and sports institutions we come to that end. Then there is a very big issue about how to rebuild the country. In my view, however, we will then find ourselves in an electoral debate and will play a very important role in the question of how to do that, in such a way that we use the enormous innovative power that we have in the Netherlands to lead the world in the field of climate and energy transition. I am convinced that this is not only good for the climate and the energy transition. We now have about 10 million jobs in the Netherlands in the Netherlands. If Mrs Van Esch and I meet in 2030, there is a good chance that we will have a few million jobs in the Netherlands that we would not have suspected today, 24 February 2021. Why? Because we have this innovative power here. But you have to do it at the right moments. If we were to ask the KLM, in this enormous crisis in which the water is over our heads, to make sure that they do a, b and c in terms of sustainability in addition to what they are already doing, they are already doing a great deal in terms of sustainability, then that does not seem to me to be real. Then you really make it impossible for them to survive. They are important for the Netherlands in combination with Schiphol. The Netherlands is a country that, because of its location and history, plays an important role in logistics nodes. There is a great deal of employment behind that. I think it is very important that we try to maintain that employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u239	I think the momentum is right now. I believe that we are not alone in this as a Party for the Animals and that this call is made by many others, namely that it is now the moment for such choices and decisions. Maybe it is almost an election debate now, but that may not even be so weird in this election time. However, I keep missing the momentum from the cabinet to do it right now. I find it worrying to feel that we no longer know that there is a climate crisis. Right now, in combination with coming out of that corona crisis, there are very good opportunities. I feel like that's really gonna be forgotten right now. As a Party for Animals, we will continue to repeat this point in the near future, but unfortunately I see little chance of that from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u240	The Netherlands has one of Europe's most ambitious climate agreements. That still requires very large decisions in the years to come, including the way people can experience it. I think that we can and that we can also achieve those climate targets. What I find even more exciting is the big question of how the Netherlands can lead the world when it comes to the innovative power that we have here. I mention the region of Eindhoven, the region of Wageningen, the region of Nijmegen, SABIC in Limburg, Dow in Terneuzen and Shell in Pernis. They are therefore large chemical and steel clusters in the Netherlands, the large innovative clusters around Eindhoven, the clusters in the field of food around Wageningen, the clusters in the field of health care around Nijmegen and the clusters in Groningen in terms of energy transition. There are enormous possibilities. I would find that the exciting debate to make that possible with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u241	Good. Then we'll have that exciting debate another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u242	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u243	Mrs Sazias and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u244	I would like to come back to the partner test, because here the difference in perspective is very clear. Mr Rutte talks about refusing to give money to people who have a "great-earning" partner. That's the word I really heard him say. This while Mrs Marijnissen clearly states that someone with a minimum wage is getting over all that partner test. A shopkeeper who lives with a nurse or a police officer doesn't have a big-time partner. So would it at least not be possible to pull up that slide, in the sense that people with, for example, a year's salary of a tonne get that partner test but not the people we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u245	My point isn't the fat earner or the thin earner. My point is that I do not find the plea for the removal of the partner income test at all strange. That's not a weird debate. I can see why we have that. I just think we should look each other in the eye and make choices. It is a huge amount of money that is needed to support our economy, which we all have to cough up again. Hopefully the economy will grow again and you won't have to cut back. But nevertheless, it is part of your sovereign debt. It may decrease as part of your national income, but that sovereign debt itself doesn't just evaporate. So that means that as good family fathers and housemothers, you have to try to make the choices in that. I fully understand that there is a debate about whether or not the partner income test. But I think it is very justifiable to say that we are keeping it, also in conjunction with the fact that a new regulation is being established which is precisely intended for people who have to deal with it under great difficulty with their fixed and necessary costs of maintaining the household. That's the TONK. In that combination, I think this is a sustainable and sensible line. Because you can't do everything at once. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u246	Of course, everyone understands that, but I do not think that is justified within the 60 billion spent. But I would like to come back to the elections. The answer given by the Prime Minister on this matter is the whim we know. We're all gonna do it safe, et cetera et cetera. But my question was very specific. I asked: what criteria does the government use to prevent the elections from going ahead? So where is the border for the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u247	You can't answer that question like that. We have taken all the measures necessary to ensure that the elections can take place safely. So at the moment there is absolutely no question of not letting that election go on in our head. That's not playing at the moment. That won't be necessary. I believe that it is also very important for the functioning of democracy to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u248	That's right, that's very important. But we also had a discussion about the limited opening of the terraces. So you still make choices when it comes to where people come together or not. Is the Prime Minister in any case prepared to seek advice from the OMT?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u249	No. That's what I've said before. We're not gonna do that. We're not gonna ask the OMT if we can hold elections. No, they're not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u250	Can you explain why you're not going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u251	Because it's just a sovereign right of the Dutch to occasionally say "get rid of that government" or "keep that government." And we're gonna see that on March 17th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u252	Exciting! It was now a few times about the TONK. That's the Temporary Support Necessary Costs. Especially often small entrepreneurs andzzp'ers who have lost their income or who have closed their business for a long time, really look forward to that TONK to, for example, cope with the housing costs in the near future. In his speech, Mr Dijkhoff referred to the fact that the Chamber adopted the Van Weyenberg motion, which I think is Chamberwide, calling on the Cabinet to implement this TONK regulation generously and not to allow the budget to be a compelling factor. Now we are getting a lot of signals from municipalities, who have to perform this TONK and who really want to fill in this TONK-scheme. As a result, the scheme cannot provide the support they are hoping for for a great deal of it. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can confirm once again that the cabinet is rapidly sending clear guidelines to the municipalities, so that they are actually going to implement this regulation generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u253	Yes, the presentation to the municipalities was published on 1 February. It is also expected that the first municipalities will be ready to offer the TONK at the beginning of March. As we know, this applies retroactively from 1 January to mid-year, until 30 June. The wish of the Chamber has also made the cabinet his. That is the wish that the TONK should be carried out generously. Today, the Minister for Social Affairs, Wouter Koolmees, sends a letter to the municipalities about the financial frameworks. It is, of course, true that the municipality ultimately has a certain freedom of policy in this, because the college and the city council determine how much they want to carry out the TONK. That remains the municipal policy freedom. Perhaps I can promise to ask the Minister for Social Affairs to send a letter to the Chamber as soon as there is something more of a picture. Well, I'll say that on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u254	I see that Mr Jetten agrees with that. Thank you. Then I would actually like to use the exchange to suspend briefly. Then the Minister of VWS will have the floor. Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u255	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u256	Mr President, thank you. I had previously registered a number of subjects that I wanted to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u257	But they've been treated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u258	Indeed, the Minister for all matters has at least answered all the questions about the roadmap. Unless something has stayed down, I have not been able to see that. I would like to leave it for what they are. I just want to talk about testing and vaccination. Then test it. I think we all want us to be able to do a lot more with high-frequency tests than we have been able to do so far. We have discussed this in detail following an initiative paper from GroenLinks. I think there's a VAO scheduled on that initiative paper tomorrow. Then we'll come back to it. I think we all want to work in the same direction, although we may sometimes have different expectations. I would like to come back to Mr Klaver's point. He said there would be a study that would say that with high-frequency tests you could lower the R by 0.3. Yes, if 80% of the Netherlands participates and if you repeat that test every two or three days, that could be possible. Such a willingness to test is, of course, not real. That's not gonna happen. That has not proved to be real anywhere, unless in a single Asian example. And once every two or three days, a cotton swab in your nose is really incriminating. We do not see anywhere that the willingness would be so great. Nevertheless, you have to want to use high-frequency tests to make different situations safer. The cabinet has described in the test strategy contained in the letter, and I am not going to repeat it completely, how we intend to do that. In the first track, it is mainly about tracking and fighting. High-frequency testing in education, high-frequency testing area-oriented helps in the context of detection and control. I think that we increasingly want to test much more high-frequency to make working safer, to make studying safer and to make things possible again that might not actually be possible, given the state of the epidemiological situation. There we are taking beautiful and interesting steps that are consistent with what you would like. Let me take up the question that gives the most reason to be able to answer properly. That is Mr Jetten's question. He asks: when is self-testing and rapid testing really self-evident? I very much agree with that. I think that was also in the GroenLinks initiative paper. Of course, we are going to scale up the capacity, but in the end you want to be able to bridge the entire bump of reduction capacity via self-salving or guided self-salving. So home removal, where you have a quick test next to your toothbrush, so to speak, would be the most beautiful thing. That's exactly what we're doing right now in higher education. In higher education at Avans Hogeschool, a pilot of Kluytmans with guided self-salving has been launched in order to make higher education safer. I think that's important. That's all still a bit in the pilot spirit right now. We want to do the same when it comes to work: first guided self-salving and finally self-salving. All this is still in the pilot atmosphere, because at the moment there is no rapid test, no antigen test is allowed for self-collection. He hasn't had a CE mark yet. This brings with it all kinds ofliabilty issues and legal issues that we need to resolve in the near future. We want to make sure that we overcome these legal bumps in order to greatly promote the decline in higher education, especially MBO, and the decline in employment. That will all go step by step, but we want to do so in high frequency. That helps. That is not an alternative to measures. That's not the way we want to see it. It does help to shape the situation that you then created more securely. You have to see that it becomes part of the security plan in higher education, becomes part of the security plan in the MBO, becomes part of those work situations where working at home is not an alternative. Work situations that should take place in any case should be as safe as possible when they occur. What we do next is access tests. In the coming period we will have to talk more intensively about this. This is going to make things possible that, given the state of the economy, would not yet be possible. In this context, it is indeed an alternative to the measures in force. An example of this is the field lab that took place last week. That's been quite a successful field lab. The field lab with Guido Weijers was a very nice example of how there could be things that could not actually be done, given the state of the economy. That's what we want to continue with. We are going to do this by working with VNO, which is working with a consortium again, to build a parallel test capacity, in addition to the testing capacity that the GGD has at its disposal for detection and combat. It will test around 25,000 in March and will have around 100,000 tests per day in April, building up to 400,000 as soon as possible. It was probably realized by the end of May. We then have that test capacity available per day and we have to distribute it properly. First of all, we are thinking of a division between the different sectors of the economy, sport and culture. The division, and also the order in which that space is made available, is the responsibility of the department of commerce. We will review that distribution again in March to see if we have made the right distribution. The March capacity is three times one third available to these sectors. This will make things possible that, given the state of the economy, would not yet be possible. All kinds of variants, ranging from PCR tests to quick tests and from the access test capacity to the bladder tests, in which Mr Wilders is extremely interested, will be available there. Are these bladder tests good to use in the hospitality industry? That's not so bad. They have to be very stable because otherwise the results are rather unreliable. If they're stable on a test street, they can be highly functional. There is another reason why they become less reliable, namely in combination with alcohol. Alcohol can affect the rash. We scale up the production capacity of the bladder tests as quickly as possible. Thus they become available to the GGD and then also to the entrance test streets. So they will be part of the mix of quick tests available to access tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u259	Did you have all the questions with this? Mr Wilders and Mr Jetten, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u260	I have a few more questions about testing. This was Mr Wilders' question about the bladder tests. I have a number of other test questions from Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u261	Mr Wilders and, after replying to the question, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u262	First of all, it's good to see the Minister again. We have spent most of the last two debates with the Minister of all matters. That's why we're gonna miss you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u263	That was totally mutual; I felt the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u264	It's good to have you back. But let's talk about testing. I think the first step should be to speed up the voluntary vaccination of people more, faster and more often. Of course, that's the first route. The Minister is right that you can use tests to make what is not possible before. But as long as that is not settled, I would like to appeal to the Minister. He says, "Share fairly." Of course, who can be against fair sharing? But I would like to call on him to give priority to those sectors that are most in pain: the shopkeepers, the catering industry. I mentioned an example. Okay, maybe they need to be stable and can't stand for alcohol, but can you promise to bet extra on those sectors that have the most economic pain, which are constantly closed, such as the catering industry and the shopkeepers, although that might be a little unfair to other sectors that are less difficult to handle and to look for ways to serve them first? I think that's important before, under some kind of honesty blanket, they come back to the short straw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u265	I am glad that Mr Wilders is asking that question, because that misunderstanding also arose in the newspaper. I've seen all kinds of anger about that, and the reason why I think that's less logical is a whole different one. First of all, we simply have the epidemiological situation at the moment that requires that if we can already relax, because that space is limited to take those steps that can actually be taken and to take the steps that cannot yet be taken at a later date. That is annoying and I understand that very well, but that is the reality of things we are dealing with. You can also make a different assessment of this, but I think it has already been discussed at length. What we want to make possible with access tests is bringing things forward and doing things that may not actually be possible yet. What should we do with the access tests? We have had a debate on this in the Chamber before. We will only allow those access tests in the non-essential provisions. I think you agree, because public services such as city hall or public transport would be less logical. That would be de facto a test obligation. So you only want to do that in the non-essential provisions. In itself, there is nothing in the way of content to do so in the hospitality and retail sector. Fine, that's no problem at all. But we also know that the test capacity is limited. Because of the limited amount of access tests that you can take a day, you should actually say: the catering industry and the retail trade should not be dependent on access tests. It should not depend on access tests to be able to take steps again. Why do I say that? I think a shop with other small steps is easier to access than with access tests. I think it also does something with the business if you really have to do an access test before you even get into the store. That is why we say: it is permissible and it is not prohibited for a shopkeeper to say 'I want to get to work with access tests'. If there are enough access tests, I'm not gonna tell you not to. I would hope that by then we will have such a volume that we have been able to take other steps for them too, so that they do not depend on access tests. That's the way I'm in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u266	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to clarify the PVV perspective. I have always argued that we believe that the hospitality and shops should not have been closed because they can comply with the current rules with their protocols. So you have two options. The first option, as far as I am concerned, is that they both now just open, because they can stick to the rules with their protocols. The result is, of course, that a restaurant owner must keep a distance and only ten men can receive maximum in his restaurant. But I think we can do that already. Maybe you're saying you can't do that until later, but that's method one. Method two is that you have such a device, if it's more stable and not disturbed by, for example, alcohol, before your restaurant hangs. If people use that, a restaurant owner can even fill his restaurant completely again. That is why the reaction of many restaurant owners to your visit to the GGD Amsterdam was: if I could buy that thing yesterday, I would have bought it, because I could have filled my business again. After all, they will no longer have to work with the distance requirement and the bulkheads. They could have just arranged it, because they know everyone who comes in isn't infected. The first route is possible, because you are not dependent on those tests. But that second route, as long as the vaccination is not quite in order, can lead to more openings earlier. That is why I say that these sectors are in a great deal of pain, and that is why it makes a restaurant owner a great deal of difference whether he can get ten men or a machine to fill his entire tent with these protocols. Just invest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u267	I understand that very well, but still a few things. Perhaps we should continue this discussion as soon as we have sent the bill to the Chamber. That will, I think, be at the end of March. We're doing a next round of field labs where we're going to try out what we're doing in a very small way on a much larger scale with those access tests for the ultrasound.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u268	What bill is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u269	I think that bill is going to be called "access test" or "test certificate." I'm gonna have to think of a pretty name, but it's about that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u270	But you will?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u271	Yeah, you will. There is therefore no objection in principle to carrying out access tests in the retail sector or in the catering sector, on the contrary. Two. Building that test capacity is the fastest when you do so at somewhat centralised locations. That could be 100 locations all over the country, but maybe a little more. This test capacity is currently being created by the Stichting Open Nederland, a consortium with VNO-NCW, among others. That goes quite quickly, only step by step: 25,000 tests a day in March to eventually get around 400,000 tests and maybe even more. That depends on what's possible. So that's the build-up of the test capacity. The next point is that it must be a central location. The idea is an app. It's in development now, but it's pretty much done. You actually load your negative test certificate into your app and then you show with a QR code at the entrance that you have been tested negative. That test has to be valid for 48 hours and then you can go in. Behind the front door of those access tests there can be something more and more other than what can be done in front of the front door. We want to determine the application by sector. I am talking about this with my colleagues from Economic Affairs, Culture and Sport. We are looking at how, through access tests, we can make things possible again that are actually not yet possible given the state of the epidemic at that time. Fieldlabs are the forerunners of that. That's the kind of thing that can be tried out. We want to make this much more structural. Again, it is taken on its own no obstacle. Only, we hope that we have made other types of relaxation possible by the time we could do that in the catering industry. We hope that they will make it possible to make some money on your case again, without necessarily requiring access tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u272	I agree with the Minister that it is mainly for the short term. But I'm not a big fan of vaccination certificates or test certificates. The Minister himself writes in his letter, on page 28, that the use of the test certificate is actually an implicit test obligation. I don't like that much. That is why I mentioned the example of an entrepreneur who can test his company so to speak at the entrance with a bladder test or otherwise. Then you don't need an app or test certificate with any privacy problems. You're just gonna go to that store or that restaurant. That's where you're being tested, as far as it takes, because again, it's about the short term, so until enough people are vaccinated and it doesn't need to be. But then someone can go in. If anyone tests negative, they'll have to go to the G.D.D. and I'll know what. I'd rather see that route with the entrepreneurs than with all the test certificates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u273	It's kind of one or the other. It's a test certificate. De facto, it doesn't matter if you have a test obligation because an entrepreneur puts a cotton swab in your nose at the entrance, or if it's arranged via a negative test certificate. This central design, in which the government co-finances, is precisely to help entrepreneurs to facilitate this in a good way. In addition, we make working and studying possible safely. We don't do that with a test certificate. I would not necessarily oppose that, but otherwise we want to make this possible, namely through guided self-salving or actual self-salving. You do so with due regard for the rules that apply at that time. Behind the gate of the access tests you should be able to release or loosen rules according to the risk at that time. That's actually a pretty arithmetic approach. I understand that about six infections were kept out at the field lab last Monday. Behind the front door was the release of 1.5 meters. There were about 500 men in the room. Imagine if those six had come in after all. Then you would have had a party at the G.D.D. So you have to be careful. You have to make things possible in relation to the extent of the epidemic, so you can take a risk. That's the access test, too. We are going to talk about this separately, including what is and is not made possible. In addition, think of Jetten and Klaver as more of a point, I think of guided self-take. It should move as quickly as possible towards actual self-deduction, but probably an intermediate step is guided self-deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u274	May I ask a question on this point, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u275	Yeah, that's fine. Just, uh, I was thinking, because there were a few questions you wanted to ask me. Yeah? Fine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u276	I have one specific question about the access tests. It might be easier if I set it up right now. With the Minister, I'm a fan of the idea that we can do the access tests at some point. We had to wait for the field labs, but they're here now. Guido Weijers is a good example. N.E.C. In Nijmegen is also a good example. I just heard 25,000, 100,000 and 400,000. That's about the capacity for access testing in the next few months. To be clear, is the bill, the legal guarantee in particular, the last bump we will have to take in order to apply it on a large scale, or are there any other conditions that need to be filled in first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u277	No. When it comes to access testing, it is in particular the confluence of the legal part, i.e. the legislative proposal. The technical part we want to try out at least once in the next generation of field labs somewhere in mid-March. In addition, we are actually going to work with the app. Then let's go for the elevator. Actually, it's first the built-up test capacity and then the field labs 2.0. Then it's working with the app. That's how we see how that actually works at the entrance. Also think of the lessons we draw from the first generation of field labs. In fact, we want to work towards a situation that can actually start, say in April. The capacity available in March, per day, we want to divide between economy, culture and sport. That's what the department's doing. They see what things they want to make possible with the low capacity that is still there at the time. So it is actually running on all tracks at the same time, running as fast as possible, to make sure that we can lift this off the ground as quickly as possible. So there's no obstacle other than that. The bill is not a de facto obstacle either. In that bill, you do what the Segers motion asked. In my opinion, this feeling lives much wider in society: non-essential provisions are fine, but avoid doing this with all kinds of facilities that you think you can't actually do. I call it foundational education, for example, where compulsory education applies. You probably don't want it there. There you don't want a test certificate in front, before you, et cetera. About higher education, you should get into the discussion. We're probably gonna do that. We're gonna have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u278	Good. Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u279	The bill actually makes it possible to identify the sectors where it is possible. Then there's the test evidence. Jetten asked another question about this, which coincides with the vaccination certificate and immunity status. I think we'll make it very complex if we combine all those things. Still, they have everything to do with each other. I think that, as Segers says it, it is true that an implicit obligation of negative test declaration or test evidence in the case of non-essential provisions is a less invasive obligation than a vaccination certificate. I think we should have the discussion about a vaccination certificate at a quiet time, if we as a cabinet have also responded to the advice of the Health Council. The most urgent discussion that is taking place there is, in particular, travel in southern Europe. We're not supposed to be traveling for a while, so that's not gonna play for a while. And there's only so small a part of society vaccinated that you can't keep a restaurant alive with the people who are currently vaccinated, with the 80-plussers, so to speak. So I don't think that's happening right now. It'll come on its own. Whether that will work in one app or in one test certificate or vaccination certificate, I honestly don't think so. But I will come back to that at a further moment. I think we've had most of the questions on this point. No, not Klaver's question yet. How many of those things are there, anyway? Then it was mainly about the rapid tests. I believe that the capacity of the rapid tests is no longer an obstacle at all. I believe that there are currently about 27 million in stock at the Service Testing alone, and if you would like to order a million on Google this afternoon, you can do so. The numbers of tests are therefore not an obstacle at the moment. The obstacle here is always the capacity to decrease, anyway. It needs to be organized. For example, we have the tests in higher education at eight locations. That's very professional. We're gonna learn a lot from that. However, I think eventually that if you want to make that scalable... suppose that we can also take a step in higher education to one day a week of college, but with a security plan that requires rapid testing. What if you wanted to take that step? Then the decline capacity is the biggest problem given the numbers. So that's where you'd like to go to guided purchase. That's what's interesting about that pilot Kluytmans pilot at the Avans University of Applied Sciences. Those students take a quick test at home and go to school at the same time as that quick test is negative. By the way, it's nice that when they're infected they don't infect each other on the subway. So it helps on all sides if we go from reduction by a medical professional to guided self-dosing and preferably even to total self-dosing. This requires overcoming a number of legal bumps, which we want to overcome as quickly as possible in the coming period. For the CE marking, I must grant an exemption, but I must do so on good grounds. We need to get that done as soon as possible. And then there's really no obstacle to getting started with that guided self-salving and the actual self-salving.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u280	It is very good news that there are about 30 million, that there are 27 million rapid tests in storage. But the question at the moment is also how much capacity there is, even when it comes to the reduction. I find it very interesting to use that capacity of tests that are available, as much as possible, even though we do not yet have test certificates. That's interesting to see when we open barbershops, as we open education further. So how many reductions could be made a day?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u281	There's a difference between track 1 and track 2. On track 1, so tracking and fighting, I think we are now working towards about 175,000 tests a day that could decrease the GGD. But I'd like to keep them free for tracking and fighting. Behind that is a lab capacity of around 200,000. There were once debates on whether we have sufficient laboratory capacity. Well, we have a huge overcapacity, but I would like to reserve it slightly for that detection and fight. I don't know what the British variant will do, I don't know if the test will come up, et cetera. So we want to keep that test capacity there. Thus, the capacity to decrease differs from track 2a, in that other part, namely the opening of society, i.e. for the access tests. That's the 25,000 going up to 400,000 for access testing. And the tracks 2b and 2c are essentially limitless, because we want to go there to guided self-dosing and eventually to self-dosing. In this case, the capacity to decrease is small, because it is capacity to decrease organised by employers, colleges or universities themselves. Precisely for that reason, because it is not scalable enough to operate larger masses, you want to move on to something else. Now very few students are allowed to come on campus, but when students are allowed to go back to campus one day a week, of course you have much larger numbers. If you want to make that safer with quick tests, you will never be able to organise it there by organising capacity for reduction. There you will really have to do it by guided self-take or by self-take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u282	This is an explanation of the plan. My question was how much reduction capacity is actually in track 2a at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u283	Track 2a is just being organized, eh, now, by VNO. I don't know. As of March 1, that will be about 25,000 a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u284	Why am I asking this? If we at GroenLinks ourselves think that there are too many people at a meeting, then we also just hire fast test capacity to make sure it is safe for the people who are there. So there's that capacity. But for a lot of entrepreneurs, the price is far too high. So is it also being considered how possible commercial testing capacity can be used by entrepreneurs to make things safe? Is that under consideration? Because 25,000 at the moment is just really very little and not enough. And that's when there's so many quick tests. Guys, we're really gonna have to use that, right? It's a shame they're lying there; that's all economic loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u285	A few things. The stuff, so the quick tests themselves, aren't the problem anymore. There are quite rapid tests available on the market. There is everything for sale, from all kinds of brands and from all kinds of different gradations. What the Service Testing does do is have those things in stock in very large numbers. In any case, the service ordered at least 10 million per month from January to summer in our order. For that there are now about 27,000 or 28,000 ready. That's not the problem. However, the problem is the capacity to decrease. And commercial companies, of course, deserve a fine living with that at the moment. But the numbers in the current commercial providers are not such that they could very much help us out here in rail 2b or in rail 2c. That's where we're really gonna have to get it from guided self-dosing. In track 2a we have therefore tried to increase the capacity as quickly as possible. That is why that consortium has been established. That consortium is moving gradually towards increasing numbers. It starts at 25,000 a day in March, and it builds up. Then the field labs. The Christian Union asks, and the CDA asked: could it do so with the churches? The field labs of now focus on culture, sport or the economy. But there's nothing in the way to see if you could get to work at churches with access tests. I don't know if VNO would be willing to provide a consortium for the churches, but NCW might. I would like to enter into that conversation with the churches, and perhaps I will do so together with the Minister of Honor. That would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u286	Perhaps we can also talk about test sites or test rooms, if Mr Klaver wishes. Those test sites could also be in a social context as in churches. But I also mentioned community centers and libraries. I tied a question to that, too. I know that churches have road maps, would like to take small steps, and would like to seek and engage in proper consultation with the minister of worship. I know they're ready for that. It would mean a great deal if this consultation could take place and take place in order to provide a perspective there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u287	I get that. That's what we're gonna do. I'd love to. I'd like to add one thing. Not because you suggested that, but I want to make it clear that high-frequency testing and even access testing are not an alternative to the measures currently in force. So it's not like you can think as a church: right now I'm supposed to be off duty, but when I start working with tests later, I can just go back to the church with 500 people. Those large groups are simply not responsible at the moment. That's not how it's gonna work. You are not suggesting that either, but since I know there are a lot of people watching this debate, I wanted to make this point. Furthermore, I would very much like to talk to the churches and the minister of worship to see what even churches with smaller steps over a wider front could do, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u288	There are churches that gather in a very small space where 30 people really are too many, but there are also large churches in which 1,400, 1,500, 1,600 or 2,000 people fit, where much more than 30 people could go to church in a very responsible way. So bespoke in here. Once again, it is also about other social meeting places. I don't just preach for my own parish, I like to see it wider. If meeting could be facilitated in these social contexts, that would mean a great deal, including in social, mental and spiritual terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u289	I understand that very well. By the way, there are church societies that would be very satisfied with 30 on a Sunday. There are all kinds of church societies. By the way, of course, the basic rule always applies that every encounter is potentially a contamination. That's just the basic rule and that's why we're trying to be limited in the amount of meetings we're pulling off with the steps we're taking today and at the beginning of next week. You can organize meetings much safer, but no matter how safe you organize it, human nature is always that meeting can lead to contamination. Less encounters actually means fewer infections. That's actually just an automatism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u290	With an apology to the boss who just cleaned this place behind the interrupting microphone. Still, at this point, to finish it. There will therefore be consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u291	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u292	Is that in the short term? When's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u293	Yeah, yeah... That's a question of conscience. I think there should be a gap for that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u294	We have a special minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u295	Yeah, that's right, but he's got other chores on his cart, too. But we're gonna have the meeting soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u296	You're going to the vaccinations now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u297	Yes, please. A number of political spokesmen, including Mrs Sazias, Mr Segers and Mr Wilders, have asked the question: can the Minister at last clarify, in particular, groups with medical indications that have been waiting for clarity for some time? I'd like to be as precise about that as possible, because I can imagine it so well. For us it is already true that you would like to color a box on the calendar when you can get your vaccine, but that is certainly true if you have a fragile health. From the beginning, we have used the strategy: first the most vulnerable and the vulnerable and the people who care for them. That is why we have started with the nursing homes and nursing home staff, with the disability care institutions and the staff in the disability care institutions and so on. So that's the order of things. That has been the strategy we have followed from the outset. I read somewhere that the strategy has changed. So it hasn't changed; the planning has. That has everything to do with the delivery of vaccines, because it determines the speed of planning. As regards the groups with a medical indication, it was said at the beginning of the opinion of the Health Council that this is about the group which also has an increased medical risk and is therefore eligible for flu vaccination. That group adds up to 1.3 million, I think even a little more. That is why we have said: would it be possible to put a further priority on this? That's what the Health Council advised, I think at the beginning of February. On that advice we have based the choices we have made. Indeed, there are seven specific patient groups with such a high medical risk that you could say that the risk is similar to the medical risk that someone runs between 70 and 80. In the meantime we have invited the 80-plussers. To a large extent they have already been vaccinated. Starting at the end of next week, we start inviting the 75-plussers. That's about right in time, too. The Health Council says the most important medical indication is simply age. That is why we have consciously started with those people of very old age, and I say this in the direction of Mr Wilder's report because there is the highest risk of disease and mortality. The wonderful thing about the current figures is that we started there and we see the number of infections in nursing homes and the number of sites that are infected. That's the first indent of sunlight that comes in because of the choices we made in the vaccination. Those are always choices in scarcity. Hence, if you had started in another group with a similar number, you could never have achieved such a visible result. And in the meantime, the disease and mortality in that very oldest group had gone through. So I think it is a very sensible choice to start with the oldest elderly. But then it's a group with an increased medical risk. You could actually subdivide them into two groups. The first group is the high risk group, which thus has a similar medical risk to the 70 to 80 year olds. These are patients with haematological malignancy, such as lymph node cancer or leukaemia, diagnosed over the past five years. These include patients with severe renal failure or dialysis, patients following organ, stem or bone marrow transplantation, patients with immune deficiency and patients with neurological disease causing respiratory distress, such as ALS patients or Duchenne patients. These are five patient groups with a high medical risk that I believe will be invited from the end of next week to go to the medical specialist to be vaccinated there. In addition, there are two groups that are already being invited through the GP. Those are people with Down's syndrome and people with morbid obesity, so with a BMI over 40. These are the risk groups that the Health Council said after consulting the FMS that they have an increased medical risk. In addition, there are a number of other groups with a medical indication. They also have a higher risk of serious diseases and even death by covid, but the Health Council says they are similar to the group of 50- to 59-year-olds. These include patients with abnormal respiratory and lung function disorders, patients with chronic cardiac impairment, patients with diabetes, patients with chronic renal insufficiency and patients with immune impairment. We invite these groups at the same time as the 50- to 59-year-olds, because the Health Council has said: when you are ready to join the group from 18 to 60, start with the 50- to 59-year-olds. The people with a very high risk are, therefore, already very short-term, just as the elderly are really going to be in the very short term; we have already started to do so in part. The groups with also an increased risk but similar to 50 years to 59 years are at a similar time as the group from 50 to 59. That's how we put those groups in the vaccination order. When will it be their turn, then, of course, Mrs Sazias's question? This depends on the willingness to be vaccinated by the groups in line before it, and on the size of the number of members. So I'm a little reluctant to mention an exact date. Well, if you're never gonna hold me to it, then that first group is actually going to be very soon: they're gonna be invited from the end of next week. And then that second group is going to be, I think, from the beginning of May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u298	You have not answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u299	No, not all of them, but the ones about the groups and the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u300	The Minister has the schedule well in mind...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u301	I did have a cheat sheet, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u302	... but that doesn't apply to the people at home. And that was actually my point: that we get so many notifications at that hotline, so many letters in the mailbox. Isn't there a possibility? And of course always subject to delivery and so on, because everyone understands that. And now you do that in quarters or it is said: on the threshold of spring. Well, that's pretty soon. But this is to give a little more clarity to people. An example: why can't you fill out a date of birth, and a possible medical suffering, and then a period pops up to indicate when you're next? Because that's just very important to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u303	Yeah, I get that. A few things about that. A: that I understand this so incredibly well, because much more than you and I look forward to people with an increased risk looking forward to the date they were vaccinated. So I understand this very well. Two: that is precisely why I want to be careful in the expectations you raise, because of course you are simply dealing with an uncertain delivery, because you are also dealing with uncertainty about how high the vaccination will be for those groups that are just ahead of schedule. You always have to deal with a certain uncertainty about the planning in time. And as time passes, you can be more and more precise. So now I dare say: at the end of next week, I expect the invitations to go out to the people with the highest medical risk, through the medical specialists. I dare say that now, because we are right on that. Well, we're going to try to discuss that with the representatives of these patient groups as well as possible. I think there's an appointment on the agenda for next week to do that with them. And I agree with you: I will also look at ways in which we can become much more precise in public information, without raising expectations that we cannot deliver, or that we need to adjust too often, because that always leads to disappointment and sadness, and we do not want that, of course. So I'll see how we can communicate about it as well as possible, including through the representatives of the patient groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u304	That disclaimer you can always give. That would also be understandable to everyone; no one blames the Minister for the absence of supplies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u305	Well, no one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u306	Well, well, I don't blame you; let's put it this way. But that disclaimer you can give. And you are now going to contact the patient groups; that is also very nice. But of course there are a lot of people who do not necessarily belong to a patient group, but who are at an age, who do not know anything, who get very restless about it and who just really want to know more clearly in communication when they get about their turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u307	Yes. And then you can say, when is it about? And that's what we're saying. But communication can always be improved, so I'm working on it, and I'm working on it to make it even more precise, without raising expectations that we can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u308	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u309	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to make a plea to those people over 65 and over 70, and I am not yet clear when exactly that happens; that is the population which is now mainly on the ic, often with comorbidity...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And again, Mr Van Delden, I have here this morning's transcript in front of me: 'The group 65-70 is the last one, because they cannot be vaccinated with AstraZeneca under the current state of the opinions. That means they're the last ones left." And that's a bit different from what I hear the Minister say here. That is my first point. And my second comment is about those independent 70-plussers. As I said to the Prime Minister, there is an approved motion on this matter from my hand. It was adopted on 17 December, and says 70-plussers with comorbidity should be vaccinated first. So that is two things, a motion and a statement by Mr Van Delden, which do not exactly correspond to what you have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u310	Yes, you do. Yes, you do. We have had this debate before. I also explained in the letter how it went. First of all, Van Delden's statement. He says that on the advice of the Health Council we vaccinate from old to young. The Health Council says that age is the most important indication. So in the group 60-plus, the group with the highest risk of disease and mortality, we vaccinate from old to young. One exception has been made, again on the basis of the Health Council, namely the groups 60-64, because they can also be done with Astra. But the rest must be with a mRNA vaccine, so with Moderna, but much more with BioNTech/Pfizer. We'll vaccinate them from old to young. We started with the 90-plussers and then with the 85- to 90-year-olds. That all has to do with numbers. Could you have started with the 70-plussers? Yes, but that would have led to more disease and mortality in those oldest groups. In the group 70- to 80-year-olds you wouldn't have dented in a pack of butter because of the numbers. So it's actually a very arithmetical approach if you take as a starting point that with the vaccines we have and in the scarcity we have, we want to avoid as much disease and mortality as possible. That's how we're vaccinating from old to young. So in that context the statement was made: they are the last. Yeah, of the group that's next, they're the last. They are the last of the older groups, because they are the youngest of the elderly. And then there are those medical risk groups. The Health Council has therefore distinguished them into two groups. High-risk groups, similar to those of the 70 to 80-year-olds, are also at a similar time to the 70 to 80-year-olds. The risk group is similar to that of the 50 to 59 year olds at a similar time to the 50 to 59 year olds. This is exactly what we are trying to do, depending on the medical risk, where the most important medical indication is age.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u311	I think that a lot of people, my colleague, have just said, even though they simply need to know when and on what date. I know what the Minister's saying. They're two groups. It's the people between 65 and 70. One, general. Two, with a medical indication. And we have the groups over 70. I understand how the Minister's methodology works, but I still don't know when it will start with which group. I would ask the Minister to at least give us an insight into this. If it is not possible now, then if necessary a short note for the second term. The point is that we at least have an insight into when you think that we are going to start with those groups and when we have completed those groups. It's a bit of a dull group now when.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u312	I get that. I understand that very well. We've tried to do that in that... what's that thing called with a Dutch word again? do flowchart. You know what I mean. I thought it was called in the Dutch Roadmap. I don't even know what title we put above it anymore. But in that scheme we have said when which groups are next, but on the main lines. This has not only to do with deliveries, but it also has to do with vaccination readiness in a particular group. When it's very high, you do a lot longer over the group as a whole. So we can't tell when a group is about ready. Because we don't start with another group until the first group is finished, that all depends on each other. So you can only do it indicatively. What we know about that, indicatively, is in that schedule. In addition, I have just said that in the direction of Mrs Sazias, several patient groups, some smaller patient groups, which we really need to give more precise and more accurate dates, because we know that they are about to start. We'll discuss that with the patient groups. We will adapt the public information to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u313	My question now is whether you can put both your first story and your answer to Mrs Sazias on one A-4 for us one more time. Then we have some vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u314	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u315	Again, I understand the reasoning, but I still don't know when which group will be vaccinated about...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u316	A suggestion might be to take a look at last night's letter. In that I really wrote it out quite seamlessly. Anyway, I'm always willing to give you more information, but it's really in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u317	It is often difficult when information comes in the evening and everyone has to take it. If that is not the case, you can still send it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u318	Reading those fat letters is one thing, but writing those fat letters is also a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u319	Is it possible to send some more information about these two groups to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u320	As far as I can, yes, please. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u321	Let's talk about specific groups. There are people with a medical indication and chronically ill...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u322	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u323	Some people have really been at home for a year and don't see people. That's gonna chop it up. They are taken into the group of people between 50 and 59, the minister just said. It's somewhere in May. If you have a medical indication and the urgency is so great, I can imagine that this will be given priority within that group. If it goes on at the same time and it doesn't go on for a while... It is shocking but true: I myself fall among the group between 50 and 59. That means I would have about the same urgency as someone who's been home for a year. I don't think that's fair. I can't understand that. Why can't the people with a medical indication who are already suffering so badly be put first in this crisis when you're going to inoculate that whole cohort?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u324	That is possible, but rationalised to the extent that you also have to look at the health risk seen for certain diseases. The whole group with a medical indication is similar to the group that is also eligible for flu vaccination. That's a very large group. That was precisely why I said to the Health Council: that's about everyone in front of the bus, so can you make a further split in that? Time and again the Health Council says the most important medical indication is age. That's just the most important medical indication. Age is the most predictive of the extent to which the disease you are going through at the time you are infected will be severe. That is why we are now seeing such a quick profit, while only one million vaccines have been put in place, from a significant drop in the oldest group. So I think that's a very responsible choice. A number of groups with a medical indication run a similar risk with 70- to 80-year-olds: people with Down syndrome, people with a BMI above 40, people with all those conditions I've just read. That is the first group to be called as soon as possible. They will also get their turn as soon as possible, partly because they have already started through the GPs, partly because they will be invited at the end of next week. That is the first group, with the highest medical risk, similar to the 70- to 80-year-olds, who are also vaccinated at the same time. In addition, there is a group with an increased medical risk, but similar to the group 50 to 59-year-olds. That's why we're putting that group right. This is therefore indeed a priority in relation to the rest, but with people with a statistically comparable medical risk, a similar risk of serious illness. That's the logic of the Health Council's advice. This was achieved after consultation with the FMS. I do not want to say that I see things differently. I think we can really lean on the advice of the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u325	I'm gonna add a little nuance. It is now understood as one group. I have a very concrete example of someone who's been home for a year. If we have to choose between her inoculations or myself, I say, please, go first. Sitting home for a year is a lot harder than what's happened to me. We're talking about the whole cohort. We could say that people with a medical indication are the first to inoculate in that group. I think that's very fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u326	Yeah, but let's talk about the size of that group. The size of the group with the very high medical risk is, I say, out of my mind, about 30,000-35,000. The group with the increased medical risk similar to the group 50-59 is one million. So I can't say we're gonna do that million first. No, that's not for a while. It's a huge job to do that. That's probably gonna go through the GPs. I expect that group will indeed be done faster than the whole group 50-59, because they go through the general practitioners. The only inhibiting factor in this, as in any case, is the number of vaccines supplied. There is no other reason for inhibition. As soon as the general practitioners have finished the group 60-64, this group will be in turn, by the general practitioners, with the vaccine that is then available, to the extent that is made possible by the deliveries; that is what we are dependent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u327	Finally. I understand that there are all kinds of circumstances that you're not quite in control of. This concerns, among other things, deliveries, the way in which they pass the general practitioners and how quickly people are actually in line. If a prioritization can be given, then my encouragement would be to look at people with a medical risk and then, even if it is a million, let them go above myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u328	Again, that depends on the deliveries. As soon as the deliveries make this possible, it is also the next priority group, to be done by the general practitioners. They're gonna work on it. My expectation is that at the same time this will be 50 to 59, but then done by the general practitioners. Where we made the acceleration a month ago, in particular, on the vaccination operation, namely by keeping fewer stocks, and so we could use more vaccine that was available for the vaccination itself, where we have now considerably increased our leg towards the rest of Europe, the acceleration is now in a number of other areas. In the previous debate, the main question was whether there could be acceleration on the part of production. The Heerma motion was adopted on this subject, also with the support of the VVD and the SP, on which we appointed Hans Schikan as a special envoy on production. In Europe, too, there are all kinds of actions that are running in order to accelerate production. That's one way to see if you can get more delivered faster. We should not expect miracles of that in the first quarter, but it could possibly produce some acceleration in the second quarter, the third and the fourth quarter. The other possibility is that, in the vaccination strategy, you will look at the latest studies carried out on the protection offered by one dose, for example, and whether it outweighs a slightly lower level of protection than that which you could achieve with two doses. But what if, with a dose, you already have proper protection and you have, for the time being, a lot more people can offer some protection and then a lot more people can offer all the protection? That is one of the questions that we have often asked the Health Council but which I have once again put to the RIVM to look at the latest results from international research and to see whether this could also be a responsible acceleration in immunisation for the Netherlands. You could imagine another: one shot of one vaccine and the other shot of the other vaccine. Could that help? That makes you more flexible in your inventory management so you might be able to speed up a bit. That will only be something, but that too is an interesting one that is sometimes suggested, also in an international context, and for example by Jaap Goudsmit in his book. So that could be a possibility. I therefore submitted it to the Health Council. For example, we look at the possibilities for accelerating immunisation. Another example could be those who have had a positive test result. That's a million by now. Of course, they've already built up antibodies. That won't be enough to remain protected from mutations of the virus at all, but it might be good enough to say that they don't need to be in front of the line and they can be moved to the rear, for example. Is that even feasible and would that be desirable? We asked that question earlier and then the answer was "well, better of course not," but it comes up too often to put it aside, because with that acceleration of the British variant you have to keep thinking how to achieve an acceleration in immunisation. So we're gonna keep looking for that, too. In short, I think we've done everything we can with regard to the acceleration of the operation. We have started accelerating production, partly as a result of the debate last time. What we continue to do is accelerate the strategy by constantly looking for new ways for accelerated immunisation. So I'll come back to that when we get that advice. Mrs Sazias has asked whether deaf and hearing impaired people can apply for vaccination in a different way than by telephone, e.g. by e-mail. Well, the deaf and the hearing impaired are allowed to stand by family and others. Early March comes the possibility that people can sign up via a website or a portal. That will have to be beneficial for the deaf and the hearing impaired because they can make an appointment from behind the computer. Mrs Ploumen asks whether everything is really being done to put away vaccines. Yes. She also asked how it was possible to continue working on pivoting protocols. Well, that's incorrect, because those protocols of course exist. There's very little spilling. That's very special. The G.D.D.s are doing a really great job. There's very little pivoting. If you look at it very closely, there is a few percent pivoting at the GGD and that is what is left at the end of the day and what has not been given to the primary target group. The few percent pivoting then give them to the people on the list to prepare the remaining vaccines at the end of the day. In the beginning, of course, that was very good. They had a list of those who pricked, for example, the left row. They are then listed in a certain order, namely in order of age. For example, if you have 1% left every day, you'll have had that list in the long run. So now we're working on another option, just to prevent you from getting spilled. That is the option to ask people who have made an appointment for, for example, three weeks from now: can we call you again, just before the end of the day, if we still have a few shots left? Can you be on the scene in an hour? That is an example to prevent any kind of pivoting. I would say that by now we actually have a negative spill-off. We initially obtained five and now six doses from a vial of BioNTech/Pfizer. We pay for six, but a lot of G.D.D.s know how to get seven out. That doesn't work out for all moving employees, because it seems to be quite an exact job. One pull-up syringe also makes it a little easier than the other pull-up syringe. But if you take seven out of a vial, you actually have a negative spilllage. At least some of the G.D.D. staff can do that. We can do that in the hospitals anyway. Those pharmacists are used to that, of course. So you're left with a negative pivot, because that's where you go out of six per vial, sometimes you even pull seven out. And of course that's fantastic. I would say that the pivot is really limited to a minimum. There's very little left. Actually, there's just almost nothing left. Dan ActiZ. Would I like to talk to ActiZ about the relaxation of the visitor scheme in connection with vaccination? I've asked the OMT to advise us on what might be possible there at the moment. I asked the OMT because you have to be very precise about that. Some of the clients haven't been vaccinated yet, because they were too vulnerable at the time. Some of the clients have not yet been vaccinated because, in the opinion of the institution doctor, they had too fragile health at all. So that means you've never vaccinated 100% of the people. And even if you did, there was still a protection ratio of, for example, 92% at BioNTech/Pfizer. In short, you'll always have people who can still get sick. And besides, even though the employees have been vaccinated, you will still have a spread by people who have been vaccinated. That is much less, but we do not yet know whether there is actually full transmission braking. There is probably a partial transmission inhibition after people have been vaccinated. So how exactly what measures can be relaxed in a house that has actually been vaccinated is still quite a very precise job. The OMT will advise us on what is possible there in the near future. I have another question from Mr Van Haga. It's about side effects. I think it is important to answer that question. I think we need to be very precise and we need to be careful that no stories are brought into the world that could scare people into being vaccinated. That is why I think it is very good to be very precise about what is and what is not true when it comes to side effects. We do this very precisely in the Netherlands. We keep a very good record of that. First about Israel. The Israeli Ministry of Health has stated that no persons have died due to an allergic reaction to the vaccine. That's the statement from the Ministry of Health. Of course, we know people are dying. In the nursing homes more than 100 people die a day, apart from corona, regardless of vaccination. People in nursing homes are old and at the end of their lives. So that death. That's over 100 a day. If you vaccinate the people in nursing homes, people will die after vaccination. But be careful to turn that into "by vaccination." We have a very precise system in the Netherlands, where the doctor always checks whether it is justified to give someone a vaccination. That's one. Of course, we always have a consent from the patient himself or, if he can no longer do so himself, from his family. That's two. Three: before a vaccine is allowed on the market at all, it is very well investigated in all kinds of clinical trials. And before a vaccine is authorised, all research results are evaluated by the EEA and the CBG, the Medicines Evaluation College. On behalf of the CBG, the Adverse Reaction Centre Lareb plays an important role in the monitoring of adverse reactions. Lareb is completely transparent about possible side effects. In short, I really want to be careful to send stories into the world that all kinds of people die from vaccination. No, people who are very old die. If that whole group has just been vaccinated, people will die after vaccination. But be careful to make a causal connection there. Just let Lareb do that work and let it be as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u329	I am very pleased with this answer. We must, of course, be careful not to cause all kinds of panic, because there are many vaccinations that are good. But there are still a lot of disturbing messages. I will mention a number of them. The Sint Elisabeth Verpleeg- en Gasthuis in Amersfoort, Woonzorgcentrum De Meander in Zele, nursing home Liemerije in Zevenaar, healthcare center Heelwijk in Hesink. I've got a whole zipper. You probably read all those cases, too. That's where a nursing home gets vaccinated and a week later you have a corona outbreak there. My question was: if there are so many such cases, there's no such thing as coincidence, can't it be that the PCR test is positive after such a vaccination and that's what we're seeing? The fact that people are dying is one thing, but this seems too coincidental. I was curious to hear the statement. I also asked Mr Van Delden if it was registered. That was partly the case and partly not the case. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u330	Very precise. I would really like to make the agreement with Mr Van Haga to be as factual and as precise as possible. You will encounter everything on social media and especially this type of connection is made very quickly. That could be very toxic. If people's heads start to develop that vaccinations would be dangerous, that you could get serious side effects, possibly even die from it, if that becomes the story, it can do something with vaccination readiness. Fortunately, vaccination readiness is very high. We've got Korean numbers. The studies a few months ago showed something really different, but by now there is a very high vaccination willingness. That vaccination will help us out of the crisis. We have to keep it high. Let's be as factual as possible. That's gotta be the deal. Then about Lareb. Lareb has the task of investigating and analysing all notifications and then reporting them in full transparency. All nursing homes are vaccinated at approximately the same time. If there's a nursing home where one week have been vaccinations and the next week an outbreak, it's entirely according to the pattern you expect. Given the state of the epidemic, there are many infections in nursing homes. Of course, a week after they have been vaccinated, people are not yet fully protected. So that virus could still be housekeeping there. A story that you think is caused by vaccination is extremely dangerous and also false. What we need to do is to report all side effects to Lareb, then to Lareb to investigate them and report them in full independence and transparency. Side effects have been reported and these side effects include muscle pain, headache, feeling unwell, tiredness and pain at the puncture site. All house-garden-and-kitchen complaints that are entirely consistent with the side effects reported in clinical trials. So there's nothing crazy going on. If so, it's Lareb's job to report it to us. That's when I inform the Chamber. Let's not cause a panic when we don't have to. That could even undermine public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u331	Well, I'm not panicking at all. It is extremely important for public confidence and for confidence in the process that there is no bias to one side or the other. If there are outbreaks of this type, consistently a week or two weeks after vaccination, it is good to investigate. It is in fact extremely important that we should be transparent about this and also in your interest. That is why my question was: is it the case that it is properly investigated and registered and is it the case that if someone dies there, it will be carefully checked whether he died from vaccination or suffer from underlying suffering? Now it has come to my attention that it is always said that the underlying suffering prevails. So he's registered as someone who died of cancer or a heart attack or whatever, while our experience in coronados is exactly the other way around. Someone comes to the ICU after a car accident, gets a cotton swab in the nose and becomes a coronado. There's a certain uncertainty there. My question is based on it, not to cause panic here, to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u332	That's really dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u333	No, I'm kind of in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u334	That's dangerous: spreading fake news. We're in the middle of a pandemic. It's about serious cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u335	Mr President, this is really not possible. I'm in the middle of a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u336	What is not possible is to spread fake news about how Corona Infections in the Netherlands and about the dangers surrounding vaccination. That can't be in the middle of a pandemic. That's just dangerous. That undermines the willingness to have you vaccinated. This is an undermining of public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u337	Mr President, this is reprehensible. I was in the middle of a sentence, and you didn't intervene. This is really weird. All I ask for is genuine, accurate and sound registration. The Minister's reaction is truly disturbing. But I'm gonna leave it at that, because we're obviously not getting out of this. I find that extremely annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u338	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u339	Can we see how far you are with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u340	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u341	In that case, I still miss answering my question about long covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u342	That is what my colleague Van Ark is very much concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u343	Okay. Then I have the question about the road map. I haven't heard from you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u344	The Prime Minister has discussed this in detail, but perhaps a question has not been answered. What question was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u345	The cabinet said a few months ago: we are absolutely not going to read that road map back, we are not going to do that. My question is: why is the cabinet now going to relax if we have the danger of the British variant that is still on the rise, if we have a very high health burden and if we also have a hospital occupation that has been stable for a month but is not falling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u346	I believe that you have discussed this quite extensively with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u347	That's right, that's a big change. I was one of them. Then there's the question that hasn't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u348	Actually, I was hoping the Minister would give me another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u349	Another answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u350	That's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u351	The cabinet speaks with one mouth. I thought it was a pretty good answer, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u352	Yeah, nice try. Now the other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u353	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u354	The big problem here is that the OMT has advised three times: don't do that, don't create a de-escalation route map, because you can't get back into the roadmap as easily as is currently outlined. With the overload of the care and hospitalizations we go on a very fragile path. If you then scale back and you have a very small kink in the cable, then the number of hospital admissions shoots right through the roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u355	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, you have asked this question a few times. I know you don't agree. That's your right, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u356	I'm gonna ask you a new question. What is the Minister, the Cabinet, going to tell all those people who have been waiting months for their deferred regular care? The cabinet is actually taking the risk that these people will have to wait for their care even longer. And what is the Cabinet going to say to all those care workers who are now defecting and who haven't been resting since October?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u357	I'm looking at you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u358	This is another way to ask the same question. Given the state of the economy, there is no step that you can take without risk. That's the hard part at this stage. If we are a few months further, then we have vaccinated and protected part of society. Then you can do more. But now we are still at a stage in which you will have to deal with a significant part of the measures. The vaccination is coming and you will be able to make much more possible with tests, of course, but for now you will really have to do it with measures. What we see is that the willingness to comply with these measures is decreasing. So what do I say to people who say: is it actually responsible at the moment? I say to them, we're taking a risk anyway. We have to be honest about that. But not something of air, oxygen and breathing space is also a risk. As compliance decreases, the number of infections increases. What you're trying to do is, in careful steps, to provide the oxygen that makes longer compliance with the measures easier. That's exactly how we're trying to keep the risks low. I heard you speak in your term of office about a zerocovid strategy. I think that just doesn't work; maybe if you're on an island, but not in the Netherlands. Maybe it works if you have a very disciplined Asian culture, but in the Netherlands that's just not gonna work. So we will have to do it with responsible risks, and that is exactly what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u359	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u360	Indeed, there are countries that are an island and have a zerocovid strategy. I'm not saying we can do that here. I am simply saying that the cabinet with the roadmap and the steps back takes a risk on which the OMT has said three times that the cabinet should not do so. I assume that the cabinet will take the risk that the people who have to wait a very long time for regular care, which gives them real deep grief and misery, because that means that a lot of people really die, even longer have to wait for that care. And the care staff that hasn't been able to rest since October, so just "bam" goes into that third wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u361	What I said, there's no choice you can make that's risk-free. No air and space at the moment is not without risk either. This will further reduce compliance, which will further increase contamination and we will also enter that third wave. If you have a trick not to go into that third wave, I'm open to it, but I'm afraid there isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u362	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned and then the Minister for Medical Care answers. Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u363	I had another question about the quarantine duty in high schools. It would be answered by Mr Rutte or Mr De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u364	Maybe it's good to do that in the second term? Otherwise, the messengers will have to clean it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u365	I'm fine with it, but I'm asking a lot of questions in my first term and there really isn't a lot of answers. This was specifically named. It's getting a little annoying, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u366	Do you have any other questions that have not been answered or was this the only question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u367	I had also asked a question about the mandatory negative PCR test on entry and exit. It hasn't been answered either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u368	So two questions. Will you return to that in second term? I promise Mr Van Haga that those questions will be answered. Whether or not he agrees is another matter. The Minister for Medical Care has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u369	Thank you, Mr President. There are still a few questions in my area, which I would like to see answered. I shall start with Mrs Van Esch's question on the avian flu she referred to. In Russia, a situation has been found in which this has passed from animal to human. She asked what we're gonna do about it. Last week I sent a letter to the Chamber with the Minister for Agriculture to give some more information, but I think it is also good to say a number of things here. In any case, as long as humans and animals live together, there is always a chance of pathogens moving from one animal to another. I agree with Mrs Van Esch that we should minimise that risk. At least for us, it's the reason to follow avian influenza viruses around the world to see if they're not changing so that they can make people sick. In any case, it is very rare that they lead to a situation in which they pass from human to human. But luckily, jumping from animal to human is not common either. The information we have now received means that we are trying to get more information from Russia through the World Health Organisation and get it through RIVM. She also referred to the avian flu that is currently present in the Netherlands. I know that Mrs Van Esch is in favour of a different direction of solution, but that is why we are watching this very closely. We're doing the same thing because it could get so dangerous. This means that we are really taking maximum precautions for anyone who is dealing with a clearance. Then you really talk about follow-up masks, special overalls and people being followed by the GGD. We also follow the families of livestock farmers and people are given virus inhibitors. We have often exchanged it here: at the moment that circulating viruses are given zoonotic properties, the zoonoses structure takes effect. Then indeed, VWS coordinates policy and decision-making. We always do this together with the Ministry of LNV, but also with the RIVM, local administrators and the GGD. I believe that this is reflected, among other things, in how we have sent this letter to the Chamber together over the last week, although there is not yet any question of human infection on humans. Mr President, that is what I wanted to say about the avian flu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u370	Of course, I would like to make a very brief comment on this. I think you're right to be concerned. Only your first sentence was: we live together with animals. In that respect, I think that might be a little off-set if you see that we live in the Netherlands with billions of animals in a bio-industry. I would like to see the VWS ministry really see a somewhat larger perseverance power that is distorted and the risks that we are taking with it. In addition, we also export that risk to other countries. That specific risk is not the risk the Ministry of LNV sees. But I do think that the VWS ministry should sit on that much more strictly and also recognise that there are really huge risks there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u371	Let me put it this way, I think we're showing the importance we attach to this subject that... I must also honestly say that Mrs Van Esch has inspired me with her question to really get into this. There's a world behind it that often makes you feel better, so to speak. I think we can walk very far together, but when Mrs Van Esch says 'you should actually do something about the number of animals', we in our turn say 'we should be very much on top of it at the time of animal-to-animal contamination'. That's what the Minister of Agriculture does. At the time of animal-to-human contamination, that zoonoses structure enters into force. Let us also hope that we can prevent human-to-human contamination. So the cabinet has not chosen the path that Mrs Van Esch chooses, but I do share with her that you should minimise the risk. I also think that this is the reason why we have cordially put the working party to work to see what is going to happen in the future with zoonoses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u372	Yeah, finalizing, because I'm sure we'll talk about this more often. The expert group is now set up. We see some very good and skilled people in there, people we think can definitely do it. But we still have the feeling that we are chasing the facts. That's how this expert group doesn't come up with its analysis until just before the summer, when we're already seeing how quickly such a bird flu virus can develop and mutate. I do notice that, as far as we are concerned, the urgency of this should really be brought forward so that we can get to work on it more quickly. I hope that we will be able to find out more about this in the near future, because I really think that the urgency lies in it and that we could avoid a next pandemic in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u373	Fortunately, we agree with that. I am very pleased that Mrs Van Esch says that the expertise of the people in the working group is good, because we really did our best to do that. I myself have an appointment with the President because I really want to discuss the importance of this subject, which comes back in every debate, personally. I hope we can hang out as long as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u374	So you see, Mrs. Van Esch. You have often not had an answer to your questions or at the last minute, but it has led to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u375	Yes, with this minister, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u376	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u377	Mr. Chairman. I still have a number of questions to ask in the area of care. Much has already been said by my colleagues about giving the little bit of space to society because of its support. Mr De Jonge just said it. I recognize the need for space from my Sport portfolio, of course. I'm really glad we can get young adults to work out outside. I am very sorry for the people in the sports accommodations that it is not yet possible to enter. I like to say that it's not because they wouldn't have organized something well, but because it's a choice in scarcity. The same applies to the gyms. Let's hope so. I'm also standing here from the medical care wallet. It has already been mentioned, just now in an interruption with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, that there is something going on with care and the third wave. I think it is my duty to remain in conversation with care when those scenarios are bleak. We're talking about scenarios. So I certainly do not want to create fear here, but we must prepare for the worst. We can hope for the best. Preparing for the worst also involves working on those scenarios. In that case, relaxations should be reversed. That's what the Prime Minister talked about. I think Mr Heerma was talking about the relationship between increasing infections and the ic's that are getting full again. I heard that in the various speeches made by your Members. Indeed we see that because of the new mutants there are scenarios that lead to higher rising numbers of covid patients. Then you could end up in such a scenario, in what we call "phase 3 of the crisis." The NZa and IGJ supervisors have urged me to prepare for this. I also mentioned this in the letter sent to your Chamber yesterday. It's not just about hospitals getting full, it's about care outside the hospital getting under pressure. This means that proper preparation must take place. The crisis plans must therefore be in order in all sectors and all regions. How do you deal with the phasering? How do you deal with shortage of employees? And how do you deal with the quality of care when it comes under pressure? That is why I have instructed the National Network of Acute Care to now look at all plans and connect them with each other. Let's hope we don't end up in that scenario. But if it is, at least we are prepared for it. As soon as those plans are in place, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mr Van der Staaij asked for an update on the care capacity inside and outside the hospital. Within the hospital, according to the rampage plan, has been scaled up. 550 extra ic-beds and 1,100 extra clinical beds have been realized. Those beds are now available where necessary. I would also like to refer to the interruption that has just been made about catching up. At the moment when these beds are not used, which is the case with the current figures, they are not scaled down, but the capacity is used to do catch-up care, to make the reservoir a shovel of army. But here too, the number of employees remains a critical factor. That's why it's very nice that it turned out this way with the vaccination in those circles. Outside the hospital we have the monitor care continuity of the GGD GHOR. The latest state of play is that there are about 1,198 first-line beds available. They go to covid patients who do not have to go to the hospital or leave the hospital, but for whom it is not possible to be cared for at home. 625 of them are occupied. At present, there are three security regions that are unable to scale up further, but we expect a further drop in first-line occupancy in the coming week. Then that will at least help as a buffer against the third wave. By the way, last Monday I was at a building of the Reinier de Graaf hospital, which is from Delft in Voorschoten. That was a line-and-a-half care. That was not primary care, but one and a half care for people who could not return to the nursing home or their home situation and who held a bed in the hospital that you would like to give to another patient for covid care or catching up care. It was an incredibly beautiful initiative, which attracted new people from the labour market. I hope that's scalable and that it tastes like more. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something. As far as I am concerned, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen really asked a question which is very central and which is very much to be said about and which is about the people who have chronic complaints to COOVID-19. Unfortunately, there are many of them. I welcome the fact that she is addressing this issue. It is indeed just a flu for a lot of people with mild symptoms, but there is also a group of people who suffer from the effects of covid for a long time. We don't know exactly how many people that is. We do have the C-support foundation. This is a foundation that, by analogy with Q-support for Q-fever, works for covid patients who experience long-term complaints. That's where about 1,000 people have come in. They inform people, advise them and support them, not only medically, but in all areas where people have complex and long-term complaints in this situation. In addition, we have Long Alliance Netherlands, which has made a hand delivery for care for people who have long-term covid complaints. From VWS we are looking at supporting the formation of regional patient organisations, such as in Brabant. I also refer to the temporary extension of basic insurance for, for example, physiotherapy and ergotherapy. Those were the questions I heard, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u378	Brief question, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u379	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that the Minister appreciates my question and the subject. My question is whether we really do not know how big this group is of people who still have so many residual problems of covid contamination. Is there anything to say about the age group, about how rehabilitation is going and about whether there is a prospect of improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u380	I may be able to see if there is more information on this for the second term, but the picture I have of myself is that we do not yet have it completely. I had a conversation with the people at C-support. I think it is very special work that they do and they also bring in their experience from Q-support. They say: we notice that we are mainly approached by people aged between 20 and 50. So those are young people. This is different from other chronic diseases or diseases. They do say they don't know if that's because these people know how to find their way digitally. That's one of the questions I have. I can see if I can do this more fully in the second term, or else I might be able to come back to that in another letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u381	In case it doesn't work. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u382	I would also very much like to know from the Minister how that relates to the fact that covid is becoming endemic or already in society, so that it will always remain among us. Then what are the risks if you get that? It's not just a flu. Really young people, in the age range from 20 to 50, have chronic residual complaints. I made a list. I would like to read a few of them: extreme tiredness, headache, shortness of breath, loss of smell and taste, muscle weakness, fever, cognitive problems, memory loss, concentration problems, sleep problems, joint pains, diarrhoea, vomiting, swallowing problems, new diabetes, blood pressure, rash and chest pain. And all because of disordered control systems of the brain, the nervous system and the hormone and immune system. So I think it is a very important subject and I would very much like the Minister to come back to it in detail. Perhaps even in writing, because I do not know whether this can be answered in a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u383	Maybe just what we've got going on, right now in the current situation. That's covid/non-covid care. In addition, we are preparing for a possible heavy third wave. That's preparation. In addition, we are also working on Mr Wilders' motion on how we can catch up with regular care, what that path looks like and what infrastructure you need for that. In addition, we have what I would like to call the longer term. There you see two things. One is the broad-based desire here in the Chamber, but also in the Cabinet, to put the care down so that you can cope with such a crisis. This concerns, for example, spare capacity. But also the question arises how you deal with the more permanent character of covid. Because maybe the virus comes back to a specific group every year, just like influenza. How do you deal with that? That's a little bit further in time, but it's a question we recognize and recognize. However, I do not yet have a pan-ready recipe for it, also because, in all honesty, we need the capacity now for the short term and for what I also promised Mr Wilders. But this question is on the table. He is very relevant and it is right that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen should draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u384	Good. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u385	We too await the Minister's plan in suspense. Mr. Chairman. One of the reasons that the corona crisis, but also the scaled-down care, has been scaled down, is the lack of staff. The Minister has often acknowledged this here too. Well, an important motion by my colleague Heerma and myself on the so-called national healthcare reserve was adopted here about four months ago. The Minister would make an effort to do so, investigate it; I do not know what exactly is in the motion anymore. But it's been about four months now, so I was wondering what's going on with the progress. And when can we look at the Minister's initial ideas on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u386	That's a good question. I would like to answer this question in the second term. Then I can at least indicate what we have already been able to do, for example, in the framework of the National Care Class, of Extra Hands for Care and of the Corona Jobs in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u387	Fine. Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. Where is Mr Dijkhoff? He doesn't use his second term saliva. Then I will go to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u388	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that corona patients in intensive care are on average 64 years old and that they usually have an underlying condition such as heart failure, lung disease or obesity;]] [[calls on the government to start the voluntary vaccination of 65- to 70-year-olds per round and to complete within a few weeks so that the hard lockdown can be lifted and we get our freedom back,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow catering, shops and construction markets to open in accordance with the basic rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-998]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-999]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u389	Then the terraces. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the terraces are allowed to open again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1000]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u390	Finally, also in view of the time, one more motion. I may be there a little early, but I do think that many people in the Netherlands think it is very important that it continues this year. I'm talking about King's Day. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the Government of King's Day 2021 to continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1001]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u391	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its first-term response, and I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that spring weather brings people out;]] [[noting that catering and terraces are currently closed and only take-out is possible;]] [[Whereas terraces can contribute to the regulated spread of crowds and the prevention of waiting crowds at pick-up locations;]] [[noting that earlier protocols for safe opening of terraces have been established and many municipalities have already granted temporary permission for additional terrace space;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with Koninklijke Horeca Nederland, to consider how terraces can be safely and responsibly open and take this with them at the next decision-making time on 8 March,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1003]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u392	Mr. Chairman. Young people and students suffer most from curfew and visitor control, because their social life has come to a complete halt. That's why they want to open up education. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that further education and secondary vocational education will be partially reopened next month;]] [[Considering that in many other Western countries with similar levels of contamination, safe physical education is allowed under strict conditions, such as distance, mouth caps and ventilation, and with the use of tests;]] [[Whereas higher education has been partially or completely closed for one year and more and more students are suffering from psychological complaints;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in discussions with higher education on measures to enable safe physical education and to consider the possibility of partial opening up of higher education as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1004]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u393	Following the letter, I have a question about the Marijnissen/Jetten motion. In it, we ask the Cabinet to make a compelling appeal to pharmaceutical companies to allow sub-licensing, so that more companies can produce vaccines that we need for the European market, but also for the rest of the world where there is a serious shortage. In the letter I read that the Minister of Health is now organising a symposium to give effect to this motion. With all due respect, that's not what the motion asks. The motion calls for strong European pressure on pharmaceutical products for sub-licensing. I would like to give a more detailed explanation of that letter, because I do not think that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u394	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u395	Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting thatzzp's with a working partner are increasingly facing financial difficulties because they are not eligible for the Tozo and one income is not always sufficient to pay the fixed charges;]] [[noting that this crisis has been going on for almost a year now, which means that the water is on the lips of more and morezzp'ers;]] [[whereas the TONK expects a lot of customization from municipalities, while the removal of the partner test has helped many people at once;]] [[calls on the government to delete the partner test in the Tozo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more and more young people experience mental complaints such as anxiety, stress, depression and low motivation due to the continuous lockdown;]] [[noting that the persistent lockdown measures result in educational disadvantages;]] [[Whereas in the period prior to the December lockdown, students in HBO and university education were able to go to campus with an average of one-and-a-half metres of education on average one in five days and that this was controlled and safe;]] [[Whereas testing and follow-up of the basic corona rules makes much more possible;]] [[Whereas meeting and physical lessons and lectures provide guidance and motivation and contribute to study progress;]] [[Whereas universities and colleges of higher education want to return to physical education as soon as possible and the next OMT opinion is expected at the beginning of March;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to return to HBO and WO education as soon as possible for one-and-a-half-meter education, with the aim of enabling each student to attend the educational institution one part per week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1005]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1006]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u396	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Jetten's questions. Indeed, organising a symposium was not exactly what we had in mind when putting pressure on pharmaceuticals. I see Mr De Jonge looking very surprised, but we were expecting a little more of that. We're so excited to hear more about it. Mr. Chairman. I also have two motions. The first is about entrepreneurs who have had to empty their savings jars, who have borrowed everywhere they could, but who are just stuck. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that economic operators in different sectors are not in danger of surviving the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the gaps in the current aid package and to send sector-specific proposals to the Chamber as a matter of urgency in order to compensate these entrepreneurs for their loss of turnover,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1007]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u398	Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion on the care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hospitals and emergency services have been closed down in recent years, that municipalities have been given less money for care tasks and that tens of thousands of caregivers have lost their jobs;]] [[noting that care must not be taken again if the account of the crisis is to be paid;]] [[expresses the view that there should be no more cuts in health care;]] [[calls on the government to develop a plan to strengthen care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1008]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u399	Thank you, Mr President. The cabinet is taking a risk with the current relaxations. That's all the worse because randomness rules. That sounds like a dangerous cocktail for the next few weeks. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, a lot of small entrepreneurs are in trouble. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many self-employed and small entrepreneurs are distraught and barely save it financially;]] [[noting that there is light at the end of the tunnel, but that self-employed and small entrepreneurs are through all their buffers;]] [[calls on the Government to grant an additional and one-off lump sum as a crisis grant to self-employed and small entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1009]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u400	Mr. Chairman. Then it's about the partner test. We hear people go to the food bank. The cabinet has so far been reluctant, but we certainly want to get a look at the problem. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the partner test in the Tozo scheme leads to numerous poignant stories of self-employed people who are no longer able to pay the groceries and rent;]] [[noting that many self-employed people are now obliged to contact the Red Cross or the food bank for food;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the negative consequences of introducing the partner test into the Tozo scheme for self-employed persons, including discussions with self-employed organisations, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Sazias, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Esch and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1010]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u401	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u402	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u403	Mr President, thank you. I do not have any motions, but I do have a number of points that I would like to make briefly. If you want relaxations that are possible, they must, as far as we are concerned, go to young people and education. We see that, unfortunately, the cabinet does not yet choose to give the students in the HBO and in the universities that space. We therefore did not find the Prime Minister's answers convincing on this point. We find it strange that as a student you can have your hair cut and a pair of pants fit, but still can't take lessons in a lecture hall. That is why we have co-signed the Green Left motion on this issue. I had a brief interrupting debate with the Prime Minister on the suggestion that there would be a second package of support for KLM. You know that company, which, when we were still in the Chamber, were in charge of the care, has already received 3.4 billion in loans from the Cabinet without climate conditions and without taking into account the necessary shrinkage scenarios that this company will also have to face. It is time to face up to the fact that investment in a fossil industry without preparing the company for the necessary shrinkage is putting the future of this company at risk. We therefore strongly disagree with the Prime Minister's view on this. We had a fine debate on the need to work on preventing new pandemics. I say it in the words of pathologist Thijs Kuik of the Erasmus MC: "As researchers, we can make a vaccine against a virus. We may be tied temporarily to animal transport in some zoonoses, but if we do not fundamentally change our attitude, a new problem will arise and continue to arise." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u404	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u405	Thank you to the Ministers for their reply. A couple of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the acceptance and compliance with the advice to receive no more than one person per day at home is relatively low;]] [[noting that the Corona Behaviour Unit of the RIVM suggests considering a safe and feasible/simple alternative such as contact with one household per day;]] [[calls on the Government to change the visit advice to "contact with one other household per day',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the conditions under which "buying by appointment" becomes possible for small entrepreneurs are appropriate, but offer little comfort to many (larger) stores;]] [[Whereas the creativity of entrepreneurs should be exploited, thereby improving the financial position of enterprises and limiting public support;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how more tailor-made work can be applied in relation to "buying by appointment," taking into account in any case the size of a shop in relation to the number of customers, and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1011]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1012]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u406	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sports contribute to general health and well-being;]] [[Whereas clusters and corona contamination can be prevented at gyms by a limited number of visitors, good ventilation and adequate hygiene measures;]] [[calls on the Government to open gyms that comply with corona-related infection prevention measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several scientific studies refer to the endemic nature of COOVID-19;]] [[noting that global endemicity is already visible on the basis of current contagion rates;]] [[noting that the current corona policy does not take into account the endemic nature of the virus;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the endemic status of COVID-19, to draw up a strategy for this and to share this strategy with the Chamber for the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1013]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1014]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u408	And the final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are risk groups for the collection and spread of the COVID-19 virus in asylum seekers' centres, homeless shelters and care for undocumented persons;]] [[Whereas the current vaccination strategy does not take sufficient account of vulnerable and sometimes forgotten groups of people in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to include the vaccination of homeless, undocumented and residents of an asylum-seekers centre in the vaccination policy in order to be vaccinated in a timely manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1015]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u409	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u410	Mr. Chairman. It is very important that people know about when they will be next, so that our mailboxes do not continue to explode. Hence the next motion, which hopefully is supportive in policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear for many people when they can be vaccinated;]] [[Whereas this may depend on age, zip code, mobility and some specific conditions;]] [[Whereas the delivery of vaccines over time is very uncertain and can therefore often change the time of vaccination;]] [[calls on the Government to make it easier for citizens at individual level to understand what is estimated to be their place in the national queue, and, if possible, to indicate when they are due for vaccination, e.g. by launching a website in which people find out anonymously with some data when they are about to go,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1016]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u411	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has been hiding behind experts all year, but he does not want to ask the OMT for advice on the elections. At least I think that's weird. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas forecasts show a further increase in already high contagion rates;]] [[Whereas the many restrictive measures on the number of contact moments and large-scale meetings are the cornerstone of public policy;]] [[having regard to the fact that a large number of people meet in polling stations during national elections;]] [[whereas only a small percentage of those entitled to vote will then be vaccinated;]] [[Whereas there is a risk that people will not dare to vote for fear of infection, and there is therefore a risk that the turnout rate will be substantially lower than in the previous elections;]] [[considers that this is highly undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to request an OMT opinion on the risks that travel and cooperation will entail in the context of the forthcoming Lower House elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1017]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u412	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to aim to protect vulnerable on a voluntary basis, to increase care capacity and to immediately end all freedom-limiting corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that non-food market stalls are closed;]] [[Whereas the market stalls for food and food are simply open and there is hardly any risk of contamination in the outdoors;]] [[calls on the government to give the non-food market stalls the same status as the market stalls that are currently open,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the Government to issue a free certificate to the GGD after a PCR test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make all RIVM models public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to monitor, register and report the adverse reactions of the different corona vaccines and the number of post-vaccination deaths,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1018]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1019]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1020]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1021]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1022]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I haven't gotten one answer yet. Three weeks ago, I asked for a letter. I was just asking if that letter is on its way. That's the answer I'd like to get. I have one motion, which is very similar to Mr Van Haga's motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the external distribution of the corona virus is less easy than indoors;]] [[Whereas, at present, only food stalls may be open on the market;]] [[calls on the Government to open the markets as a matter of urgency so that all market buyers can return to their livelihoods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1023]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u414	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a new medium-term roadmap which will provide insights for each alert phase:]] [[1. the measures available to prevent dissemination;]] [[2. which indicators or situations may be considered;]] [[3. the indicators or situations in which these measures may be scaled down;]] [[4. the situations in which the responsibility for the fight lies with the mayors or the security regions or the minister;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear how the GGDs and security regions are structurally equipped to combat corona annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1024]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u415	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u416	The letter to which Mr Krol refers is coming soon. Then there is Mr Heerma's question. There are two aspects to this. First of all, it's the supermarkets. Under the Temporary Scheme measures covid-19, shops in the food sector may, of course, be open. The shops concerned may also sell non-food products to a limited extent. This was further explained in a letter from the cabinet of 16 December. It also states that it is not allowed to expand the non-food part. The rule of thumb is that at least 70% must be food. The mayor needs to maintain that. There is also, of course, the question of online sales. That doesn't necessarily have to be bad. The small retail sector also sells successfully online nowadays. I have already mentioned here the example of the Akkerman fountain pen shop, here in the Passage. In general, it is also difficult to make a clear, enforceable demarcation between companies that benefit from the corona crisis and companies that do not. Then there is also the question of how much benefit to be made and how to deal with companies that have mixed activities, i.e. both activities that benefited from the corona crisis and activities that did not benefit from the corona crisis. And how does it become clear that a company benefits from the crisis and does not achieve better results for other business reasons? In other words, a higher turnover does not always have to be accompanied by a higher profit and a higher profit not always with a higher turnover. There are also differences within certain sectors. Small construction companies seem to have performed better on average, while large construction companies are much heavier. Let me see if this meets Mr Heerma's point. Yeah, I see him nodding. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 999 by Mr Wilders, referring to the debate: dissuade. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1,000. With reference to the debate: dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 1001. King's Day always goes on anyway, which continued last year, but of course with due regard for the corona measures. What exactly it looks like, we don't know yet, but of course there is a King's Day, hopefully physically, but that can also be online. The motion in part No. 1003 belongs to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u417	And the verdict on the motion in part No. 1001?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u418	Judgment Chamber for the motion in part No. 1001 by Wilders. For the motion in part No. 1003 of Heerma and Dijkhoff is as follows. We are talking to the sectors, including the catering sector, about smart and responsible reopening. Tomorrow the Minister and Secretary of State for Economic Affairs will have a meeting with Koninklijke Horeca Nederland. Reopening of only the terraces is one of the options spoken in a step-by-step plan. Of course, we must look at the conditions under which this can be done, and it must also fit in with the epidemiological situation and context. We're all trying to do that quickly, of course. Of course, we must also consider whether it can be epidemiological, and when it can be epidemiological, but against this background Chamber's opinion on the motion for a resolution Heerma/Dijkhoff. Then the motion to part No. 1004 by Mr Jetten on higher education. If that motion is adopted, I do not want the picture to be that higher education is opening up, which the motion does not, by the way. With the interpretation that, of course, the OMT will also look into it in an opinion request and we cannot anticipate its outcome, the opinion on the motion in part No. 1004 as far as I'm concerned, be Chamber. But once again, if it is adopted, we should not say: well, now higher education is opening up. The motion in part No. 1005 by Mr Klaver I really do not want to advise. It just can't be carried out. We have, apart from the content, checked again with the performers. The influx of the Tozo would increase far too much. Municipalities are just trying to rig up the TONK. That takes all the capacity. It also ends up with households that really need it and is therefore also more focused than abolishing the partner test. An increase in the income limit is also not feasible for the municipalities, nor is it in line with the Participation Act. So I really want to discourage that motion with some force, but we are not going to leave if it is adopted, I mean, that is not unacceptable. Besides, we can't leave, because we're already gone. Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It is equally complicated, because it actually requires something similar to Mr Jetten's motion. You could reason: once the Jetten motion has been carried out, we come to the Klever motion, because it asks if it can be opened as soon as possible. For that, we need first the consultation that the Jetten motion is asking for. By the way, the Jetten motion also comes to the same conclusion as the Klever motion, but I would like to see it in that order. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that we agree that the Jetten motion is more careful, that it calls for everything to be done and that this also means that the discussions must take place and there should also be an OMT opinion, it is of course faint to say that the motion in part No. 100 is not possible. So I would say: also judge Chamber but in the context of the motion in part No. 1004. Then the motion to part No. 1007 by Mrs Marijnissen. The package has just been expanded, including today an extensive extension of the TVL scheme of nearly 400 million. And we're definitely holding our finger on the wrist. So if there's more to it, we take a critical look at it. Against that background, I would like to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1009 by Mrs Ploumen on the supplementary one-off crisis grant. This is actually the same answer. Besides, the whole TONK is now being rigged. This type of very specific scheme cannot be implemented at present either. So I have to discourage this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1010. That research has already been done extensively. There has been talk with self-employed organisations, and that is precisely what TONK came out of. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1011 concerns a further relaxation that is not possible at the moment. The OMT advises to maintain both curfew and visitation restrictions. I must therefore discourage this motion, however sympathetic it may be. Then the motion to part No. 1012 about customisation when buying at a distance. With reference to the debate, I must advise against this motion, which is really a further relaxation. We hope, of course, that further relaxation can take place at some point, but that is already very exciting for the moment. The motion in part No. I should also advise against 1013 on gyms, referring to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1017 by Mrs Sazias on the elections. They are organized safely with RIVM advice. So we do not want to ask the OMT if we can hold democratic elections. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga's 1018 should also be discouraged by reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1019 about the non-food markets I must also advise against. The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 1023 on the urgent opening of the market must also be discouraged by reference to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u419	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u420	Mr President, thank you. The motion in part No. 998 calls on the government to start the voluntary vaccination of 65 to 70-year-olds per round and to conclude within a few weeks so that the hard lockdown can be lifted and we get our freedom back. The question is, of course, always at the expense of who and who's mother. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion. Unfortunately, because of course we would like to inoculate everyone at once. Then the motion to part No. 1014 on the recognition of endemic status. I'm not gonna recommend that motion. Because we're still in the middle of the epidemic phase. That endemic phase will indeed come and by that time we will prepare for it, but that is not now. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu's 1015 calls on the government to include the vaccination of homeless, undocumented and residents of asylum seekers' centres in the vaccination policy in order to be vaccinated in a timely manner. We're also busy with those groups. So they're in the policy, but they're not in the schedule. So I'd like to do that. With that, I can give this motion a ruling. On the motion in part No. 1016 I would like to leave it to the Chamber, with reference to everything we have exchanged on this subject in the first term. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr The motion in part No. 1022 by Mr Van Hage and Mr Krol is superfluous. That's what I'm telling you. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 1020. Excuse me, that should have been a better order. The motion in part No. I advise against 1020 members of Van Haga and Kuzu. The GGD provides the results of the PCR test. It can't be used as a travel document. By the way, people should not be travelling abroad at all at the moment. And if they do, they have to get tested for that. And they'll have to take care of that by themselves on a commercial test street. That's not what the G.D.D.'s for. That was also the question that had remained from the first term. There was another question from Van Haga from the first term. That was the question: how is testing and quarantine in secondary education going? Source and contact research for secondary school pupils has been intensified. At the time of contamination, category 2 close contacts and category 3 other contacts are identified by the GGD in cooperation with the school concerned as soon as possible. For category 2 close contacts, these are pupils and teachers who have been within 1.5 metres of an infected person within 24 hours for more than 15 minutes. For them, they will be quarantined immediately for ten days. They are called upon to be tested at the GGD streets as soon as possible and on day 5 after exposure. If the test is negative on day 5, the quarantine is lifted and the student or teacher can return to school. Category 3 other contacts do not need to be quarantined and are called upon to be tested at the GGD on day 5. Then the motion to part No. 1024 on a new road map. I don't think that's necessary. I say to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that the roadmap already provides for an important part of what she wants here. And in part I am also working on the implementation of the Dijkhoff motion, which in the previous debate expressed the feelings of, I think, a majority in the Chamber that you would actually like to take steps within those levels of risk with some smaller, cautious steps for different sectors if possible. In addition, the system already provides for a periodic update by the OMT of the indicators appropriate to the epidemiological situation at that time, given the state of vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u421	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u422	I don't recommend that motion. Then I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u423	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u424	And then I'm really at the end of my second term. That question concerns C-TAP and the motion that has been tabled on it. I should like to return to the various debates we have had on this subject. One of the reasons for a GroenLinks-motie was that earlier with the Patent Pool. That is what the Netherlands has been behind. The Netherlands has just been one of its tractors. It's about the provision of knowledge. But its aim is always to provide as many vaccines as possible, including for the Third World. And why? We're not really protected until we're all protected. But that is not only the provision of knowledge and compulsory licences, because that is not the point at all at the moment. It's not like pharmaceutical companies would want to hide their vaccine or anything. That is not the point at all at the moment. It's just about the presence of production capacity. And, of course, we are investing heavily in that. In fact, we are looking with Europe for many more opportunities. The motion tabled by Mr Heerma, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Dijkhoff in the previous debate called for a substantial investment in this area. We are. This is particularly beneficial to the Third World. And all the other initiatives that exist, including those under the European Presidency of Portugal, are therefore included. We do this with a great deal of commitment, because we believe in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u425	All right, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u426	The Minister has given a very long answer, but it was not an answer to my question. My question was as follows. In primary schools, you have one teacher in an entire class, and then the whole class and the teacher go home. But in the upper secondary schools you have clusters and you are in multiple classes. If you have nine classes, you're in nine classes, so you have nine teachers. My question was: didn't we overlook this? Should all these nine classes with those nine teachers all be quarantined if a so-called infection is detected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u427	No, and it was an answer to your question. Your question was: is it different in secondary education than in primary education? The answer to that is yes, and that is for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u428	So everyone's gonna have to go into quarantine? So, basically, half the school goes home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u429	No, that's exactly what I'm not saying. I say that the source and contact research makes a distinction between category 2 and category 3. So it's not the same as in primary education. That's where the whole class goes home when there's an infection. Here you will be checked if you have been within 1.5 meters for more than fifteen minutes in the last 24 hours. If so, then you are a close contact, but that does not apply to all nine classes you may have been in as a pupil of the superstructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u430	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u431	Just to be sharp, only the one infected goes home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u432	No, those who have been in close contact. I just read all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u433	Yeah, I get that. Anyway, everybody's going home anyway. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u434	No, it's not. It just isn't. This is very special. I'm just reading it all to you. So it is different from what Mr Van Haga says. It's not like all the classes that such a student has been in have to go home. It concerns close contacts under the LCI Directive, the close contacts that have been within 1.5 metres for more than 15 minutes in the last 24 hours. These are not all the nine classes you may have been in in the upper secondary education system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u435	I'd like the Minister to clarify something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u436	Oh, dear, that sounds threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u437	Yes, because as long as the cabinet does not commit itself to the structural containment of covid......................................................................................................................................................... Then we're not going to zero covid. The Minister has actually already said that we are letting go of that. We're not holding back anymore. It is therefore becoming endemic and we do need a long-term strategy and a roadmap for how we are going to prepare the GGDs and security regions for the fact that covid becomes endemic and will remain among us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u438	These are all birth words from the past few weeks. Let's get this over with. At the moment, we are still in the middle of the epidemic phase of the crisis. We're in the middle of the outbreak phase, and we need maximum control. That is what we are doing and the risk weighting that we discussed in the first period of the debate applies. That's one. Two is: there are all kinds of mutations taking place. We will soon be much better protected by vaccination, but that will probably not lead to Corona disappearing completely from our lives, as many diseases become part of it and we will learn to live with a disease among us. But we're really not at that stage yet. If only we were there, I'd like to say. There is a good chance that there is indeed an endemic phase of corona, but we are far from there. By then, it would seem to me to be the easiest stage to prepare us for, for example, vaccinating becomes an annual whole for the most vulnerable groups. That could be part of that endemic phase. Well, I wish we were there. We're a long way from being there. We have a very different battle to fight first. That's what we're concentrating on right now. By the time the corona outbreak is so lured that there is an endemic phase, we will deal with it and relate to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u439	Finally. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, this is what your motion is asking for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u440	Yes, Mr President, but the Minister can't insist that we are doing structural mitigation if we start to relax a little now. Then you're not gonna make covid go away, are you? Then you do make sure it stays between us. That roadmap is for the medium term. Now we have a roadmap that is constantly updated with new signal values. I understand. That's what's needed. But we also need a medium-term roadmap. It does not have to be done tomorrow, but at least I want work to be done on it and the health services and the security regions to be prepared for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u441	There is a motion by Mr Segers on the different scenarios. I think it would be wise in the steps and in the order of things if we did that first. Then we are going to have the debate on how we see these scenarios in front of us, what that future could look like in all kinds of variants and how, given those variants, we are preparing for that. Let's just do that before I make all kinds of roadmaps for autumn. There are far too many uncertainties for that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u442	Thank you. I'm just gonna wait for the cleaning. The Minister for Medical Care has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u443	Thank you, Mr President. I have two more questions and a motion. First, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question about the long-term effects of covid and how that relates. I would like to include a passage on this in the next letter so that I can do justice to the questions she has asked. We're gonna have to do a few questions for that, too. Then there is Mr Wilders' question about the national healthcare reserve. I can now rattle very quickly what is written here, but that does not seem to me to do justice to the subject or to the clock I see the President looking at from time to time. I would suggest that we also say something about this in the next letter. What are we going to do? In the coming spring already a number of test gardens start to see how you shape that. I think it is good to do justice to this idea and to the motion on which it is based. So I would also like to propose that a passage be included in the forthcoming letter. That leaves me with the motion in part No. 1008 by Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Klaver, who has a'spoken' section on which I will not say anything, but who also calls for a plan to be drawn up. I don't recommend that motion. However, we have a number of recovery programmes, such as the Youth Delta Plan and the catching-up framework. But this really is a long-term story and it doesn't fit the missionary status either. With that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u444	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u445	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I would like to thank all Members of Parliament and, of course, the Prime Minister, the Minister of the United States and the Minister for Medical Care, the messengers, the stenography service, the clerks and everyone who has followed this debate.
