ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the budget for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Room 35925-XVII, first term Chamber. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. He's just not making his debut here, but he's going to defend a budget here for the first time. Good luck with that. We have 15 speakers from the Chamber, from 14 political groups. Do we have five interruptions tonight? I know you want it all fixed. I understand that, but perhaps we can deal with it briefly and in a pointy manner. Isn't that right, Mr. Van Dijk? So, in terms of interruptions, five times one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u2	I am happy to give the floor to the first speaker this evening. That is Mrs Van Weerdenburg from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Article 20 (1) of our beautiful Dutch Constitution states: "The security of existence of the population and distribution of prosperity are the concern of the government." The Dutch people are having a hard time. Our country is in crisis. The corona pandemic has drawn deep traces physically, mentally and financially. People either lost their jobs or watched their business go bankrupt. Nor are we overwhelmed by the consequences of the asylum system. The insecurity on the street is growing. And a private home is now unreachable for an ever-growing group of Dutch people. As a blow to the flames, the climate mob is turning the green thumb screws harder and harder. For half a million households, energy poverty has become a bitter daily reality. In short, our prosperity is under pressure. We are facing an uncertain future, all the more reason why it is madness to channel billions of euros of Dutch taxpayers' money abroad in this time, especially when you look at where that money has ended up in recent years. It ended up with Oxfam employees in Haiti, who organized sex parties with underage prostitutes. Or think of the 265 million Dutch euros that disappeared in the deep pockets of corrupt rulers in Mali. And let us never forget that Palestinian terrorists have been financed by Dutch aid funds, who have committed an attack on Israeli citizens. A 17-year-old girl, Rina Shnerb, was killed in cold blood. Did this cabinet learn lessons from that? You intend to never let this happen again? The answer is no. Funding for UNRWA continues steadily and this afternoon during Question Time we could see that the government is even making an awful effort to finance Dutch education and care facilities in Afghanistan. Yes, the same Afghanistan where the Taliban terrorists are in power. And it's already happening. The United Nations has been doing so since the end of October: paying the salaries of approximately 23,000 Afghan care workers. What a total insanity to do that or even consider it. This way you support the rulers, keep the terrorists in the saddle longer and prolong the suffering of the locals. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the PVV, I urge the Minister to stop financing terrorism today, directly or indirectly, anywhere in the world. Is he willing to make that promise? Mr. Chairman. Despite the so-called poor policy nature of the current budget, there is a huge increase in the commitment budget, over EUR 2 billion compared to last year's budgeted commitments. For the sake of clarity, commitments are in fact future expenditure. In replying to the written questions, we can read that this increase is caused by the renewed multiannual commitments for annual contributions to a large number of UN organisations in 2022. My question to the Minister is: why? Did these contributions fall off this year? Have these UN organisations submitted a request for funding to the Netherlands? Was that application also tested according to the standard policy implementation process, as usual? I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this so that we can rule out the possibility of a farewell gift from the previous Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the more than fifteen years that PVV has been questioning development aid in this house, we have often been accused of harshness. Very hypocritical, because that is usually because of members of this Chamber who pretend to stand up for the weak in the world, but who now have only one motto, namely: long live the big subsidy circus. Because that's the real goal. Development aid has become a earning model, a huge job creation project for left-wing people working in countless NGOs and international organisations, all dependent on subsidies. It's their livelihood. They'll do everything they can to keep it alive. Mr. Chairman. Now, more than ever, it is time for us in this Chamber to stand united for the Dutch people and ensure that Dutch taxpayers' money directly benefits our own people. Let's stop public development aid. Let citizens decide whether they want to donate their hard-earned money to charity. I appeal to the colleagues in this house who, like me, have sworn allegiance to the Constitution in their installation. Let us respect Article 20 (1) of the Constitution and use the billions of this budget to ensure the survival of our Dutch people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u4	Thank you. A question from the lady from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u5	It is a recognizable, consistent story of Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Now, of course, we are also faced with a virus that goes all over the world, and we see that a virus does not adhere to borders. Does Mrs Van Weerdenburg also see that it is in the Netherlands' own interest to invest in health systems abroad, in countries in Africa? We can see, of course, that these countries have less money to get that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u6	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that Mrs Kuik recognizes the PVV sound in my story. Yes, that is actually another fine denominator under which the expenses are done: the COOVID-19 pandemic. But those funds are usually given to large organisations, so it's not at all certain if it gets there where we agree it ends up. Moreover, a continent such as Africa, for example, is much less affected by the covid pandemic than, for example, Europe. There are several reasons for this. Demographics have something to do with it, also because they might be used to dealing with a pandemic there. Once again, when you see how we are suffering from the covid crisis in the Netherlands again today, I think: first let's get things right at home and then we can always see what else we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u7	Following that: of course we saw that this virus was already not at borders. It came from China, but next time it could be another virus from Africa, for example. Then it is also in the Dutch interest, I think, that we provide enough vaccination around the world, because as Dutch people we also travel around the world. If Mrs Van Weerdenburg looks at the Chamber that wants to spend money on development cooperation, does she not see that if money is spent, this is important and also in the interests of the Dutch people? Can she not see that these health strategies and vaccinations are useful throughout the world and are also good for our Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u8	I'm having a little trouble with this. Of course, it would be very nice if we could solve all the diseases and poverty in the world. That would certainly be in our interest, but that cannot be done, Mrs Kuik, I say to the CDA colleague. We don't have a money tree. Our resources are limited. The PVV chooses to allow it to benefit our own people, as the Constitution requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u9	In response to that last remark, I would say that many diseases and pandemics have already been crushed by development aid from the Netherlands and other wealthy countries in the world, so it has helped. I hear Mrs Van Weerdenburg again say that the Netherlands supports terrorists and pays the wages of left-wing types. I also recognise, like the CDA, that consistent story of the PVV in debates on development cooperation. Mrs Kuik mentioned the importance of combating the corona pandemic not only in the Netherlands and Europe, but also worldwide. I'll say something about that in a minute. But how about climate finance and ensure that, in the interests of the PVV, we will say, migration flows are stopped, because poverty drives people away and drives towards the Mediterranean? What did the PVV think about that? 'Cause I don't hear that back at all. It is retreating behind the dikes, offering no alternative and certainly not out of moral duty, because I do not ask the PVV at all, but at least out of self-interest for the Netherlands and Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u10	I'm a little surprised. Why wouldn't the PVV offer a solution? I believe that almost every PVV colleague in every debate offers the most perfect, most inexpensive solution, namely: borders close. That's the only thing holding back the flow of refugees. Look at Australia. At some point, they said, "No one's coming in." The boats stopped coming at some point. But by leaving those boundaries open, by keeping all those sausage in front of them, they keep coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u11	Not to mention the number of deaths and the misery in other countries that we all have on our consciences, which the PVV does not care about, because I would like to say something about that. My question to Mrs Van Weerdenburg is therefore very simple: have you ever been to the external borders of the European Union? Have you seen that these fences do not go through the seas and that the misery cannot be stopped without genuinely good aid and development cooperation, and without ensuring that we share prosperity and also the prosperity in other countries in the ring to help build Europe and other parts of the world, rather than retreating behind the dikes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u12	That's a fairy tale world. It's a very nice story, and if it were possible, no one would be against it. But what is Mr Hammelburg thinking? That we have unlimited funds to solve the world's poverty? There will always be a difference in prosperity between us, Western Europe, and the countries from which these refugees come. That's always gonna be the case. Again, the only way to say: stop, it can't be here anymore; you can't go in there anymore, so stop trying. That's the only solution. If Mr Hammelburg says that we are responsible for the dead, I do not feel addressed as a PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u13	Thank you. Then Mr Klink of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u14	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is and remains a trading country with beautiful products. From milking robots to chip machines and from radar systems to glass vegetables, we earn a third of our GDP from exports. As far as development cooperation is concerned, the Netherlands is and remains one of the most generous donors in the world, both absolutely and relatively. On both subjects there are always new desires to do even better, but let us also mention that a lot is already happening. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution today, I would like to focus on trade policy, development cooperation and the synergy between these two issues. There is certainly synergy between aid and trade when it comes to the middle income countries. But the Dutch trade is, of course, wider than trade with the middle income countries. In particular, trade with our neighbours Germany, Belgium, France and the United Kingdom..... is very important, especially for SMEs. For the members of the VVD Group, our exports are very important. Trade and exports create jobs and earnability. This brings in tax money, which we can pay for, among other things, care, education and safety. In order to increase the earning capacity of the Netherlands and in the future to deal with the challenge we have for example for healthcare and climate, it is important to pay more attention to international earning capacity. Mr. Chairman. Trade missions are important for entrepreneurs to get to know the new market. In the corona crisis, digital trade missions are an important alternative, especially for SMEs. Additional benefits of digital trade missions are lower costs and less time investment. In addition to physical trade missions, digital trade missions can continue to play an important role as far as the VVD Group is concerned after corona. I ask the Minister whether he will undertake to continue to facilitate both physical and digital trade missions for business and therefore especially for SMEs. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, women entrepreneurs operating internationally are a relative rarity. The Minister also points this out in the progress report on Trade Agenda. It is precisely in trade missions that there are opportunities to make trade missions more accessible. I know that the Minister is committed to this, but unfortunately last year 19.3% of participants were women in digital missions led by a regiment. Organisations such as Womensbizz, which brings together successful internationally active female entrepreneurs, have the knowledge and network to take on an active role in trade missions. The question to the Minister: does the Minister want to involve organisations like Womensbizz in setting up trade missions to increase the participation of female entrepreneurs? Mr. Chairman. SMEs have been facing a decline in funding opportunities for many years, especially from large banks. Those who want to cross the border will have less easy access to the right funding and will be more difficult to expand internationally. Therefore, the request to the Minister to focus on promoting funding opportunities for international active SMEs. The current tools for this are not yet sufficiently accessible to SMEs and start-ups. They are often unable to meet the conditions or are unable to find the right arrangements. Invest International is a first good step for international entrepreneurship. Cooperation with bank financiers and the lack of quantifiable export promotion objectives, particularly within SMEs, where the need for support and funding is highest, makes it difficult for SMEs to access the fund. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. In what way does the Minister intend to promote the use of large funds such as Invest International by international SMEs? And does the Minister want to work to ensure that Invest International is the only point of contact for financing international business? It is important that investment by Invest International should end up with entrepreneurs who need it most. I am thinking here of the smaller companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u15	A question perhaps from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u16	Since Mr Klink is talking about Invest International, I will come back to that in my term. I have a question for him. Now that the right step has been taken to sign the declaration in Glasgow to stop using fossil ekvs, there has been a discussion on how to help adapt or even mitigate green investments in poor countries in a positive way. What I think Invest-NL and companies encounter is that these projects are difficult to make equally profitable. You also need some space to make a first loss or have some degree of uneconomic top-funding, as we know it in the Netherlands at the SDE. I wonder if the VVD is prepared to look at the existing instruments and to adapt them a bit, so that it becomes more interesting, including for Dutch SMEs, to achieve more on-site adaptation and mitigation in collaboration with local companies in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u17	Thanks for the question. I don't know if Mr. Van der Lee is deliberately saying Invest-NL or if he's referring to Invest International. That's two different things. I've been talking about Invest International. The point was that, in my opinion, it is precisely for SMEs and start-ups that we can find each other there, Mr Van der Lee, who want to operate internationally, perhaps in the climate transition, which is very difficult to get the right funding for that. This is an organization in development. It's only just begun. The instrument is good.I just indicated that..... but this just needs more focus. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. It is a good, positive point of the European Union that we are a single trading bloc. It is therefore hard for the Netherlands that the United Kingdom has decided to leave the EU. It doesn't make it any easier for trade. 2022 is another post-brexit year, in which the cabinet will focus on the phasing-in of the British Border Operating Model and informing business about it in the coming months. The first post-brexit trading missions also took place last month. My questions to the Minister are about the implementation of the British Border Operating Model, about the paperless certification and whether companies get aftercare from the Dutch government after post-brexit trading missions have taken place. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the relationship with the United Kingdom, the conclusion of new, modern trade agreements is a priority. The Dutch government should support the current Trade Policy Review in Brussels, actively focus on concluding new trade agreements with, for example, New Zealand, help reform the existing WTO multilateral system and ratify CETA. Without substantial investment in trade relations combined with the energy transition and sustainability, the export of Dutch earning capacity will be under pressure, especially in the knowledge that the rest of the world is not stalling and that new trade agreements will continue to be concluded at a rapid pace. The EU is therefore committed to new trade agreements and WTO reform to maintain a level playing field. A first step can be taken here next week at the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference. The members of the VVD Group argue that the EU and therefore the Netherlands should strive for the widest possible range of modern trade and investment agreements with third countries. Mr. Chairman. A link between the Dutch innovation and trade policy and the integrated inter-departmental approach of EZK and BuHa-OS for the international business sector, of which innovation is an explicit part, is essential. Innovative technologies provide solutions to the global challenges that enable the Sustainable Development Goals to be met. There is no interdepartmental comprehensive vision of innovation and trade. The existing instruments of EZK and BuHa-OS could be more coherent where innovation policy is involved in trade promotion. In particular, small and medium-sized industrial enterprises are unable to engage in international cooperation. That is why the next question to the Minister. Can an explicit connection be made between the Dutch innovation and trade policy and the integrated interdepartmental approach of EZK and BuHa-OS for the international business sector, where innovation is an explicit part of it? Mr. Chairman. Recently, at COP26, it was decided not to support fossil investments abroad by Dutch companies by 2023. I see that Mr Van der Lee is pleased with that. In concrete terms, the main issue is the greening of export credit insurance. I have already asked written questions about this together with others. We have received the answers just before the budget debate. Business had previously indicated its intention to build up insurance for fossil projects through an international and realistic timeframe, combined with complementary government policies. This has now been accelerated by the declaration signed by the Netherlands at COP on 8 November. But these are companies that also have Dutch suppliers and where jobs depend on Dutch families. The members of the VVD Group consider it very important to discuss a careful transition with the sector. This concerns the clear demarcation, timelines and a solid package for maintaining knowledge and jobs. Action and clarity for business are needed as soon as possible. Can the Minister confirm that a clear package is ready by the first quarter of 2022, so that business can experience this transition well? Mr. Chairman. There is always a great deal to be said in the area of development cooperation. The total ODA amount...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u18	I just have a question to clarify. So I understand from Mr Klink's words that the VVD is indeed simply for Glasgow's statement, as for Paris', of course. But I understand that in the short term she wants more clarity for companies, so that they are taken into account in the story of how we are going to achieve it and not yet be surprised at the last moment. Is that exactly Mr Klink's point? So he says, "We're for Glasgow, but mostly take the companies in front?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u19	I think there has also been a motion on which the VVD has simply voted in favour. So it would be crazy if that were different all of a sudden. What really matters is, the point I wanted to make is that business now needs to move faster into transition. That's what the companies want. They've always indicated that's what they want. We must therefore ensure that there is not only clarity by the end of 2022, which I still have a little taste of from the Minister's answers to this issue. So that takes real action, too. So I'm really asking you to take action as soon as possible. That is why I say: quarter 1 of 2022. This should be done in consultation with the business community. Well, that's already happening. It's already started. But now we really need to put the gear on that. I think we should all want that so that we can make this a success. With your permission, I'll continue, Mr. Chairman. The total amount of ODA increased from 4.8 billion in 2022 to 5.5 billion in 2025. Let me say again: emergency aid and reception in the region are very important to the members of the VVD Group. Next year, 68 million more will go to humanitarian aid. Emergency aid is needed to help victims of natural disasters and armed conflicts and to save their lives in acute and miserable situations. The aim is that people can take care of themselves as soon as possible after a disaster and earn their own money. In the case of the FVD, more emphasis will be placed on preventing migration flows. Refugees must be received in the first safe country where they arrive, even outside Europe. This is good for the refugees, for the local economy there, and for the Netherlands. The European Commission wants to link the low import tariffs for developing countries to the cooperation on return of its own nationals. I therefore ask the Minister whether he intends to commit himself to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u20	There is a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u21	If the VVD migration flows are to stop with emergency aid, how much will the VVD increase the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u22	I have no proposal to increase budgets within OS. I certainly don't have one. I have pointed out before in a debate on emergency aid that it is best to look at it within the OS budget. But emergency aid and reception in the region are important points for us. And I indicated in my contribution that that amount has already been increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u23	Yes. But the VVD wants to broaden the task package within emergency aid. The VVD wants to regulate migration flows and preferably stop them through emergency aid. Reception in the region means, of course, that there must also be money to that region. Otherwise, these refugees will flee to Europe. That's how it is; it's called secondary migration. So how much more does the VVD invest in emergency aid to improve reception in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u24	I repeat that this has already been mentioned in the committee debate on emergency aid. I am not proposing to increase the emergency aid or reception budget in the region, or to increase other parts of the OS budget. I can perhaps also mention points within the whole of OS that the VVD Group is less enthusiastic about. Mr Van Dijk is undoubtedly familiar with our electoral programme, and he knows the points on which my group is less enthusiastic, but I thought: let me zoom in on points where we might find each other and which we all consider important. Then I come to the migration paragraph of the post-Cotonou Convention. Members of the VVD Group are concerned about whether there will be effective monitoring and enforcement of the agreements on return. The text is not very clear about this. The members of the VVD Group would like to make it clear that it does not in any way lead to obligations or expectations on legal migration routes and that return cooperation should not provide for any kind of right to legal migration routes. Now only the text reads: "As far as migration is concerned, visa measures can be taken, among other things, as your Chamber has obtained through the BNC sheets on the EU migration pact." Formerly, the EU OS money was linked to the Cotonou Agreement. Now this goes through the general funds for aid to third countries through the Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation Instrument. That is why I ask the Minister: how are these funds linked to compliance with the agreements of the post-Cotonou Convention? Mr. Chairman. Last summer, I indicated that the members of the VVD Group would like to see the annual criticism of the General Court of Auditors on the management and analysis of risks finally taken over. We must note that, despite this positive development, dozens of suspicions of malpractice are still being reported. We are talking about fraud involving development cooperation money. As far as the VVD is concerned, fraud must be combated. Dutch taxpayers' money must not be lost to corruption. I know, of course, that the Minister does not want to do so, and will do everything in his power to inform the Chamber as well as possible. Transparency is very important here. It makes it easier to recover after fraud. I think it is inappropriate to deal with specific NGOs in the budget. However, I would like to point out that it is unacceptable for the VVD Group to support terrorist organisations. Recently, the Minister replied to my written questions about Israel's labelling of six Palestinian NGOs as terrorist organisations that the Netherlands has requested Israel to share information with donors in bilateral contacts and through the EU, as well as with the NGOs concerned. Israel has indicated that it is prepared to share the information with the Netherlands through the appropriate channels. The request was made with the request to share the information as soon as possible. At the time of answering my questions, this information had not yet been received. That is why the question is whether this information has now been received and what the outcome is. Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, it is important that everyone in the world can be vaccinated to get rid of the miserable corona crisis. That's what we do for our health, our safety and our economy. It is about people's vaccination and not about the discussions about patents. The Netherlands must respect what we agree on in a European context. Climate funding is also something that we need to work together and meet global commitments. We have agreed that from 2030 onwards, the Annex 1 countries, such as the Netherlands, will jointly pay 100 billion dollars to non-Annex 1 countries. These are mostly developing countries. Recently, Professor Vollebergh of the PBL reported during a technical briefing to our permanent Chambers Committee that the Netherlands is paying its fair share. It is also clear that a country such as China is not an Annex 1 country and, despite the huge size of its economy, does not have enough climate finance. Question to the Minister: how will the Minister make an effort to ensure that other countries, notably China, pay their fair share of climate finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u25	Mrs. Teunissen, with a nose-length head start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u26	A subject that lives, you can see: climate finance. The VVD says China needs to do more on climate finance. However, the Netherlands provides climate finance entirely from the ODA budget, while we agreed in the Copenhagen Treaty that it should be additional, so in addition to the development budget, as a rich country, given our historical emissions, we have to assume our responsibilities and contribute extra to climate financing on top of the development budget. Does the VVD agree with me that, before we point to China, we should also look at ourselves and contribute more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u27	An appointment was made in 2009. We were at that briefing together with colleague Van der Lee. I can imagine that those numbers will be adjusted, even after the new summit, and that there will be a new key. But what I think of this is: a deal is a deal. At least you're gonna find out what you're gonna pay. If there are still countries that do not comply with their agreements at all, I think it is more important than to say whether or not it comes from ODA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u28	Deal's a deal. But that means that we also keep to the agreement that climate finance should be additional and that public funds going towards climate finance should not be at the expense of the development budget. Our development budget is already very low, much lower than we agreed, namely only 0.51% of our GDP instead of 0.7% of our GDP. So it's already very low and then we're going to pay for all the climate finance. And then your party leader says: action, action, action, at the Glasgow climate summit. Do you not think that we really need to take action and stick to the agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u29	You zoom in on that 0.7. You can also say: in 2015 it was 3.7 billion and in 2022 it is 4.8 billion and in 2025 it is 5.5 billion spent. There are several ministries that have to do it with less budget. I believe that the LNV budget fits into this budget four times. So just to say it's very little, I just don't agree with you. The Netherlands really is a great donor, also in absolute terms. I do not agree with you but to note that the development budget would represent virtually nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u30	Yes, I was at that technical briefing. The thesis was not that the Netherlands delivered its fair share. The researcher's theorem was: The Netherlands does what was at the time the interpretation of the agreement that was made. Those are really two different things. Because if you look at the fair share, the Netherlands should contribute more. But my question is another. The OECD data survey shows that the Netherlands is doing a lot disproportionately via the private channel. There must be a return on this, which does not end up with the poorest countries. 27% of what we give remains within Europe and goes, for example, to Eastern European countries. I'll come back to my previous interruption. I don't share the VVD's vision. She is concerned that Dutch maritime companies are losing contracts by signing the statement in Glasgow. We see that the poorest countries are not yet sufficiently achieved with our climate funding. That is also an obstacle to lifting Glasgow's and other COP's ambitions, because the West does not keep its promises. Isn't it much more important that we jointly try to initiate projects that Dutch companies can help with and that really help the poorest countries to adapt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u31	Then Mr Van der Lee is really talking about the implementation of climate finance. It was also an eye-opener for me that a lot of climate finance goes to countries within Europe. I think it is a very remarkable observation that China has no part in this. I believe that countries that can contribute in terms of size of their economies are also primarily encouraged to contribute. I think that is more urgent than saying here: we accept that they do not pay and we proceed to the order of the day. The Netherlands zooms in very much to do something in a particular country. I certainly do not want to trivialise that, but it is a challenge to get other countries to move forward. In that respect, we are ahead rather than behind. It is true that business does a lot, but that also offers perspective. Both the public and the private sector, the business community, want to take the lead and take steps in terms of our climate ambitions. Mr President, I will conclude. The Netherlands is a trading powerhouse and a major donor of development cooperation money worldwide. Let us combine the sectors in which the Netherlands is good with the biggest challenges in developing countries. I am thinking mainly of agriculture and water. For example, the Netherlands is an agro-majority. Oxfam says 11 people die of acute hunger every minute. Dutch solutions can apply to these global challenges. Let's help developing countries with smart Dutch innovations. And vice versa: work much more equally with African countries. Large-scale investment can boost the economy in developing countries. This is in the interests of these countries as well as the interests of the Netherlands. People in developing countries are becoming better educated, but do not find decent jobs in their own country, with the result that they emigrate to Europe. It is therefore very good that recently, after COP26, a reconnaissance was launched to invest large-scalely in solar energy and hydrogen development together with Namibia. This creates an equal situation, which makes the Netherlands and the people, in this case Namibia, better. Let us continue with this in these interesting times, with great transitions, above all. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u32	I would like to refer specifically to this point. A win-win situation is possible. Mr Klink speaks logically of Dutch business from the VVD. This needs a larger market. But developing countries also need investment. Is that not the right argument to increase the development budget to 0.7%? We can do that in formation, but maybe we can do that these days. Because we've been walking backwards for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u33	In order to bring it from 0.53%, instead of 0.51%, to 0.7% of GNI, Mrs Teunissen also raised the issue. That's not our way. We have much more fiduciary in concrete projects. We want to work together in this area. That is why I gave that example of Namibia. In general, there could be much more between blocks, for example the African Union and the European Union, where we want to strike a battle through trade agreements. You can therefore talk about other aspects, which, of course, ultimately give an impetus to working conditions, climate and animal welfare, if you like; matters that both blocks consider important. The aim is that both parties have an interest in taking this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u34	I'm a little quiet about it. In 2012, the VVD had a tough promise: "We are going to cut 3 billion euros in development aid. We need to go down to 1.4 billion euros." My question is, what the hell happened in those ten years? You are standing here with a wonderful story about women's quotas, energy transition and climate finance. What happened to the VVD? You'll even make GroenLinks happy with your story. I think you should say that enough. You referred a bit deviously to the electoral programme by saying that the VVD once said that we should get rid of development aid; only emergency aid remains. You don't even have the courage to say that out loud. My question is: shouldn't you just delete it? Because if the VVD seriously wants to reduce the budget for development aid, then the formation would also look at the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u35	It is a bit difficult to get a question straight out of here, but let me at least correct something. I didn't argue for women's quotas. I said that I noticed that in trade missions the proportion of women is still relatively low, so that was not about the OS aspect but about the trade aspect. I merely called for: look at organisations that are active in international entrepreneurship and where women have a position, and involve them in trade missions. So that can also simply be a mission to our neighbouring countries. So there is no need to link this with development cooperation. It is true that the electoral programme states that we as a VVD stand for reception in the region, compulsory payment to international organisations and emergency aid. That is what we stand for, and not for the rest; so it is. Anyway, you're always in a coalition where there are other wishes. Let me put it this way, but that is the reality of today's structural austerity of 1.4 billion under Rutte II. That is also one of the reasons why we are still structurally below 0.7%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u36	Over the last ten years, more than EUR 50 billion have been thrown into the bottomless pit of development aid, on your watch, led by the VVD. What should people in the Netherlands, for example VVD voters who are not at all in favour of development aid, be able to see that the VVD is serious about this? For example, the VVD has not put Minister Kaag in the way of strobe in recent years. It's just in the election program and for the rest, the VVD has never done anything serious about it. Again, the only way to actually put that development aid budget to zero is to form with the PVV, but you're not even calling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u37	I think we should go back in history; that's always interesting. In 2010 there was a bit more of a collaboration between VVD and PVV. At that time, there was no commitment to a structural cut in the OS budget. Just when the PVV decided to leave and cooperation with the PvdA continued, a structural cut was made. So I don't want to say that nothing happened. Again, it is true that the VVD does not advocate bringing the total OS budget to zero, because it contains elements that are just very important. I have already mentioned them a few times, but I would like to mention them once more: emergency aid, reception in the region and the contribution to international organisations. I would therefore find it particularly strange if I were to suddenly argue that it should go to zero, because that was not in our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u38	That was a nice list of Mr Klink. I am missing one more in that list, namely support for civil society, for example. For example, the VVD also signed the Rainbow Agreement. It really says that for Ihbti, but I can also imagine that for women and girls, which you talk about more often. Isn't that what the VVD thinks is important in development cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u39	I think I've just been clear on what the VVD priorities are. So this is not what the VVD has to do as a first step, but I am, of course, aware of the Rainbow Agreement and we wholeheartedly support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u40	I have one more question and it builds on the question put by Mr Van Dijk. I also know what the VVD's like. That is really not a GreenLink policy; the PVV will soon find any policy that is left of the PVV GreenLink policy, but unfortunately that is not quite so. But I don't quite understand the logic of the VVD. The reality is that the developing countries are now shrinking by more than 5% as a result of the corona crisis. It is also a fact that climate finance is not in order. It is also a fact that the VVD is in favour of reducing the trade benefits when they do not cooperate with the withdrawal of migrants who do not receive refugee status here. I do not see in any way how the VVD is promoting projects that contribute to tackling the climate issue, let alone projects that Dutch companies can benefit from again. The only serious budgets for development cooperation are intended to use the VVD only for emergency aid. Your story is not complete. You must spend more money if you want to realise the ambitions you claim to have. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u41	If I were to agree with Mr Van der Lee, I would indeed fully embrace a GroenLinks programme. So, no, I don't agree with you. As far as climate finance is concerned, I have just made the point that, as far as I am concerned, we have a very competent minister who also has international standing. So I would say: let us use this minister as much as possible to mobilise other countries to also contribute to climate finance. Let's take those steps. Through diplomacy you can also take steps there. I believe in that. And for the rest, it's a different ideology. We believe more in acting on the basis of equivalence between different countries. Whether you are a developing country or a country like the Netherlands, if you conclude agreements with each other, you have interests on both sides to trade with each other and to make agreements on how to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u42	Thank you. We're gonna listen to the next speaker. That is Mr Jasper van Dijk. Oh, there's another regretant who wants to know something about you, too. It is Mrs Koekkoek of the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u43	Of course, we shouldn't go home too early, Mr. Chairman. That would be a shame. I would like to ask you a few more questions precisely on the issue of equivalence, from Mr Klink's last sentence. Earlier in the speech, we heard that the VVD intends to reduce the import tariffs of countries only when they actually take people who have to return to those countries. But very often that is not the reason that countries do not want to do so. There are other reasons for this. And just when we talk about equivalence, investment and building partnership, I cannot reconcile that with that. My question to the VVD is therefore: how does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u44	I've just tried to report that a few times. As far as we are concerned, equivalence is real that you agree on a particular product or products and that you continue. You see each other as equals, to eventually deliver and pay for it, and then you could also do something with tariffs. This can be an incentive for a young man or woman from any African country to stay and work in that country, because their products could eventually also go to the European or Dutch market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u45	I can see that very well. But earlier in the argument a conditionality was announced: only low import rates at the time a country cooperates on return. And that does not promote this development at all, because at such a time you say that products can only be imported and exported at low rates if a particular country complies with the rules that we impose on people's migration movements. I don't hear the equivalence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u46	Those are actually two different things, indeed. This is about the point of migration, where you now have an acute tool in your hands. But for the other point, at a higher level, the WTO could be a very good instrument. And that is the far more trade with each other on the basis of agreements, which means that those tariffs are not at all covered. Of course, that's the ideal image. I really think that we should make a commitment to this, and I think that you do. This is a priority and we really need to make a full commitment to it. You can do better than that. But today's reality is that there is, of course, something about migratory flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u47	Thank you. Then Mr Jasper van Dijk from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u48	I bet on four minutes, Mr President, so far, and perhaps a little less, because then I can do a little more in the second term. Mr. Chairman. We have received an impressive letter from the Platform Humanitarian Action, from all kinds of NGOs. There are also figures, which are very worrying. You can see that the number of people who depend on emergency aid, humanitarian aid, has been increased in recent times due to corona. It's been raised to 250 million people. One in ten people is starving. 82 million people are fleeing from violence and the climate. Inequality is growing rapidly, especially as a result of the corona crisis. In this respect, action is needed and I share the plea that the basic budget for emergency aid should now be increased from EUR 370 million to EUR 400 million. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Maybe Mr Klink feels the same way, because he also made a warm plea for emergency aid. In that respect I totally agree with him, but then I also say: put your money where your mouth is. Mr. Chairman. The budget for development cooperation is a different story. A gap of about EUR 1.4 billion has been struck. It's been coming along for a while. That's what happened from the Rutte II cabinet. It is, of course, quite exciting what the new coalition, if ever there will be, will do with it. Will that hole be closed or will it still exist? Maybe the forming parties would like to say something about that. Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u49	Here it comes. Mr. Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u50	Yeah, because this question was gonna come when it was my turn. That's in a minute. You know what the D66 election programme says: 0.7%. But I have also read the Socialist Party's election programme and seen the CPB pass-through. It says that, according to the Socialist Party, we can continue at the current rate of 0.52% GNP. So I do not understand where Mr Van Dijk's question comes from, because your billing and election programme say something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u51	Thank you for this interruption. That does save me another one. I think what Mr Hammelburg is saying is wrong. I think we are even going to 0.8%, so there is no need to worry about that. Mr. Chairman. Think also of the funds for sexual health and reproduction and the fight against HIV/AIDS. We tabled a motion last year to keep those funds up to date. Of course, we want it to remain at the same level in the coming years, so let us have a reaction from the government on that point. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the trade agreements. The controversial CETA agreement with Canada is still in the Upper House. It has been there for some time now, and I think it is there for the time being, because there is one way or another that no progress has been made. Perhaps that has to do with the lack of support for it. I don't mind that very much, because I don't think the CETA Convention is a good treaty, especially because of the controversial private court that's in it. It's the least we can do to screw it out. The same applies to the Mercosur Convention with a number of South American countries. Now we hear the rumor that the European Commission is making separate proposals for all kinds of things, in order to move those trade agreements forward. We don't think that's a good idea. You shouldn't use cut-and-paste and inlay sheets to try to coat such a treaty. Do it right or don't do it. Does the Minister agree with me? Mr. Chairman. Then corporate social responsibility. As everyone knows, Christian Union, GroenLinks, Labour Party and the undersigned have a law in place. So we want this to be settled nationwide. We see a lobby, especially from the business community, which thinks that you should regulate the European system. But that's especially very delaying. I'm asking this minister how he looks at that. Does he agree with us that you should just take care of that nationwide? Does he therefore support our call for legislation to be embraced as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u52	However, I would like to respond to Mr Van Dijk's comments and to the fact that he has just said that this is what industry in particular would like to do at European level. I believe that we have been in a briefing of the ESC together, where it has been explained. I also support the fact that the workers have embraced it wholeheartedly in order to implement it at European level. So I assume this was an omission in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u53	That's right. I was with Mr Klink at a meeting of the ESC. They explained that. That's absolutely true. The union was one of them. But Mr Klink also heard that there was some criticism of that opinion from the ESC, namely: was that not too much from one particular side? My view and that of a number of other parties is: arrange it nationwide, arrange it right. Then Europe can take an example. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to a roundup, because time flies. About the unfair distribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u54	Yes, but Mr. Amhaouch...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u55	Ai, now it's getting serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u56	...has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u57	Yeah, we need to get serious right now. The SP and a number of other parties say that we should do the IMVO agreements nationally. The CDA says that we need to be able to prepare nationally what we are going to do in Europe. Because trade is European. The economy of the Netherlands is European. But we still have those covenants. For example, we have good experiences with the textile agreements. A number of other covenants are still in progress, but we read that the cabinet writes that the government wants to withdraw from these covenants. How does the SP see this? Does the SP agree with the CDA that, for the time being, as long as we do not have legislation at national or European level, the government must also remain at the table in order to go through these IMVO agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u58	Yeah, as long as we don't have legislation, I'm worried when the government says she's pulling out. So I would like to hear an explanation of that. But the best thing is of course when we first have that fantastic law of Cedar c.s. adopt it to place it firmly, as a kind of example. In turn, the Netherlands takes up the guide country role, which Europe is working on in order to really regulate corporate social responsibility across Europe. Mr President, I was ready for my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u59	You're making it exciting, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u60	I'm not. The Netherlands will donate 27 million vaccines via COVAX. With a vaccination rate of between 0% and 5% in Africa, we are far from there. We're only at 7 billion out of the 11 billion vaccines we need. How does the government feel about that? The patents are the biggest hurdle. India's TRIPs Waiver Plans in South Africa should therefore be fully supported. Does the government share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u61	Thank you. Right to the second. Mr Hammelburg is through his interruptions, but he still has 15 minutes to speak. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, no more interruptions... then it's up to the interrupting microphone here when I speak, I'm afraid. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with half an apology to the SP. I see Mr Van Dijk standing in the back of the Chamber. Indeed, the Socialist Party's electoral programme referred to 0.7% of GNI for development cooperation. However, this is not the subject of the transfer of the counterpart budget for 2022. Of course, I should have mentioned this properly, which is why I have half an apology to Mr Van Dijk. Mr. Chairman. With our open society and open economy, the Netherlands has responsibility for and interest in ensuring international stability, security and a just world. Contributing to fair and sustainable development is not only the right thing to do. It is also a tough condition for stability and security. I say this to that side of the Chamber. I'm pointing at Mrs. Kuik by mistake, but I really didn't mean that one. She was already looking shocked. I'm looking at the PVV. It's our safety, too. That's what our debate was about just now. Mr. Chairman. Take, for example, the flourishing of our business. In a third of our business and our economy, we earn our money through trade, with open trade flows. For example, you need peace and stability. It's also where about a third of the Dutch make their living. Here's what I said. And I'd like to repeat that, but all right, everyone doesn't have to agree with that. I hope that a majority in this Chamber is. As I said, the Netherlands also has a moral duty to eradicate poverty, to combat climate change worldwide and to support the most vulnerable in this world. This calls for an active commitment to both development cooperation and foreign trade. Mr. Chairman. The corona pandemic has not only caused a great deal of suffering in the Netherlands and a great deal of suffering in Europe. The global impact is huge and doubles the impact in those countries that were already so difficult to achieve. It hits the most vulnerable hardest, extra hard. Several UN organisations have already calculated that the development that we have also built up in recent years in the context of the MDGs and now the SDGs has been thrown back five years in time. Furthermore, we now see that freedoms are being severely attacked and that vulnerable groups such as women and girls, even though I, as half or more than half of the world's population, would not like to call them vulnerable groups "lhbti+" and people with disabilities more than ever, suffer multiple discrimination and exclusion from the most basic needs such as food, shelter, safe ports and health care. I'll just name a few more. I should like to be the first to dwell on those most vulnerable and civil society organisations, which are supported by a lot of people, this evening. It is these civil society organisations that often provide help to these vulnerable groups at risk for their own lives. Since the outbreak of corona, they had to deploy their capacity at the same time to cope with the consequences of corona and continue their activities, often under agreements with donors. Meanwhile, their funding decreased worldwide. It was much more work with much less resources. Thanks to years of commitment to supporting civil society, the Netherlands has made a huge contribution to building sustainable capacity of NGOs and community-based organisations. This pandemic threatens to make some of this building disappear like snow before the sun because of the violence of the corona virus, the withdrawal of funding and the further shrinking space for civil society. That is why, together with the CDA, the Labour Party and GroenLinks, I have just tabled an amendment to raise the existing Civic Space Fund by EUR 7.5 million. This fund supports local civil society organisations. It's for the people on the frontline, who stand up for the most vulnerable. Mr. Chairman. I also have a specific question about Dutch support for the global intersex movement. I know it is very specific, but in recent years there has been one tonne a year, I think. The Netherlands is one of the few, if not the only country that supports this movement. It is the i of our lhbti policy that is part of our foreign policy and priority of our OS policy. That funding will end at the end of this year. I see that there is no substitute, because the intersex movement is simply too small to qualify for greater funding. For example, I mention the threshold of 5 million in OS policy that we use as the Netherlands. That doesn't help this movement. My question to the Minister is whether there is any possibility of compensating for this, in order to ensure that the intersex movement is supported in this too. I'm considering a motion on this. Mr. Chairman. Then the corona vaccines. In advance of our corona debate in two weeks, I already have some update questions to the Minister. Together with other parties in this house, for example ChristenUnion and GroenLinks, D66 has long been insisting on vaccine donations. In June, I filed a motion with Mr Bikker of the Christian Union, and I would like to take a look at Mr Ceder, with a very clear mandate to the cabinet: come up with a concrete, phased donation policy for the global vaccination campaign of COVAX. The cabinet is actually implementing this motion, but I have to admit that I am a little frustrated about the degree of implementation and the pace of implementation of this motion. So I have two questions about that. One. Can the Minister give an update on the state of play this week? Are we gonna meet our target for this year? That's why I also say "this week," because the year is almost over. Can the Minister also indicate what the internationally formulated need is for the coming years? And how does the Netherlands intend to contribute to this? Mr. Chairman. The pandemic has also loosened quite a bit in Dutch business. We've discussed that here several times. We have also indicated that the trade flows threatened by the pandemic are a real threat to the Dutch business community, to the Dutch economy and thus to a third of our jobs. There are a lot of companies really hit hard by that pandemic. There are also companies that have managed to get through it well. With this, they also have a special responsibility to support the Dutch economy as a whole by fighting the coronapandemic worldwide. I know that there was a meeting last year in which Dutch companies also contributed money to the COVAX programme. My question is, was it enough? Shouldn't the private sector contribute any more? I am referring above all to those companies that have managed to get through the corona pandemic well and not to those that are currently suffering. Let me mention that again. Should we not organise another conference, a renewed conference or something, where we raise more money, including from the private sector? And then I'm gonna stop, because I see Mr. Van der Lee at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u63	I would like to put a question to Mr Hammelburg about solidarity with the poorest countries when it comes to combating the pandemic. The Netherlands has provided 27 million vaccines. There was some legal stuff about that, but it seems to have been resolved now. But when it comes to logistical support, to transport, to ensure that it is submitted there, the Netherlands does not deliver a fair share. And then I'm not gonna ask the obligatory question if D66 is gonna make a hard enough commitment to a higher budget, because that's what I'm assuming. But does Mr Hammelburg not agree with me that, given the seriousness of the pandemic and the tradition of cash slides in development cooperation, it might be wise to use some money from the future on this point now, to provide a higher fair share to the pandemic campaign elsewhere in the world, on that logistical side as well as the Netherlands, because this is also crucial for its own interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u64	Mr Van der Lee is actually asking whether D66 is prepared to use more money than, for example, the 20 million for COVAX, also for other problems relating to the pandemic. I'm charmed by that thought. I would like to think about this with Mr Van der Lee. But let me also just confess... Well, I can confirm, because I don't have to confess. Because I know this. The fight against corona has been one of my priorities ever since I was in the Chamber. But let me say that it is not just about vaccinations. It would be too easy to do that. It is priority number one, but then try to get those vaccinations cooled on location. And then try to do something about, for example, a lack of will within the European Union to do something with the TRIPS waiver. For that I did last week, in a trade debate, yes, that is how it is going to be asked to look at compulsory licensing, for example. For example, there are a number of measures to combat corona in which Mr Van der Lee and I can find each other. I'm charmed by every thought we can put that together faster. And if, in a broad sense, we are talking about more money in development cooperation, like everything else, then you know our electoral programme and our commitment in formation. Then I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u65	Yes, but the chairman sees the people. Mr. Klink, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u66	I just heard Mr Hammelburg talking about corona and COVAX. He said there was a need for more commitment from the private parties. Does Mr Hammelburg agree with me that private parties, I mention Janssen and the parent company, Johnson & Johnson, are really taking steps and are also taking their responsibility? In Mr Hammelburg's speech, it sounds a bit like it's all too short. That would be a misrepresentation of reality as far as I am concerned. Does Mr Hammelburg agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u67	No, because I didn't say it. I didn't talk about the pharmaceutical industry. I was talking about the private sector in the Netherlands in a broad sense. I am grateful that the pharmaceutical companies have worked very hard and that the pharmaceutical staff have worked very hard around the clock to get the vaccines on the market so quickly. And yes, that has often happened with public funds and subsidies, and yes, we can also talk with the pharmaceutical industry about the further distribution and production numbers, but in this case I am talking about other companies. Some of them have actually delivered amounts of 10 million or more over the last year and a half. I thought that was a very good example. I would like to see that repeated. I think much more is needed, also in their own interest. Eventually, I think they can make a profit on it, just to say it in a flat way. In my opinion, this is something the VVD is very much in favour of: that parties in the private sector contribute to social issues. So let there be no misunderstanding about that. I'm on it, Mr. Chairman. So much for my questions about COVAX, because in two weeks' time we will have another debate on global corona control. I'd like to talk to you about Glasgow. This has already been the subject of the previous three speakers, at least in the course of the inter-rupt debates. Of course, we do not find any mention of this in this budget, because when COP26 took place, the budget had already been printed. I'd like to celebrate Glasgow here. I also think we should all do that. I am extremely pleased that the Netherlands has nevertheless become part of the leading group to stop fossil investments. Previously, the Chamber adopted a motion from D66 and GroenLinks, not from me and Mr Van der Lee, but from Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Ojik, to align foreign policy with Paris. I would say now: let us bring foreign policy and OS policy into line with not only Paris, but also with Glasgow now. I'm considering a motion on this. A few questions to the Minister. What does Glasgow mean for our trading instruments? I think it was Mr Van der Lee who just named it in an interrupting debate. An interesting thought: let's just make our trade instruments more sustainable and make sure that we all stick to the bar of sustainability and Paris and Glasgow. If we support financial projects or support investment from Invest International, from FMO or whatever you can think of, how do we test it for development and sustainability? I think Mr Ceder is going to talk about the SDG test later, so he will come back to that in a moment, but I would say: let's also move on to the trade instruments. I'm racing through time, so I'm just going through my lines. I thought I could do it in ten minutes, but that was hopeless, Mr. Chairman. With regard to SMEs and internationalisation, I largely agree with Mr Klink's questions. I am also mainly concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises, so to speak, and about the demands for support to enter the international market. That's still not very easy. The growth of small SMEs is not yet very easy and international trade, especially within the European Union, plays a major role. I therefore endorse Mr Klink's questions on this subject, specifically about funding and its support. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question about imvo. We are going to talk about this later in another debate, so I would like to confine myself to one simple question. Social partners have indicated that, pending national or European legislation, the agreements and the role of the Dutch government are absolutely essential. I understand that if we were to introduce legislation next year, wherever that legislation comes from, it would be weird to set up another three or five-year stretch. At the same time, a retreating government in anticipation and anticipation of legislation is also undesirable. Does the Minister have a plan to formulate something of a bridging policy in this situation, so that it does not risk drowning many of the work of these covenants? That is what the social partners, both trade unions and companies, are now indicating. They agree. Mr President, I'm sure I'm forgetting something. No, I've got another little one. Well, not a small one: the EUR 750 billion from the EU Restoration Fund. We know that RVO and other parts of the government have provided support for trade missions to ensure that the money spent by the EU Restoration Fund in other EU countries can also help Dutch companies invest, contribute and possibly see something of it. The question is: are there any more such plans in the coming year? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u68	Thank you. 10 minutes 27, but we finish that in 10 minutes. That's exactly what you've been chasing together for the second. We are going to listen to Mr Gijs van Dijk from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u69	Mr. Chairman. Worldwide, nearly 250 million people need humanitarian aid, 1 in 10 people are hungry, 82 million people are fleeing violence, oppression and the climate crisis, and in at least 114 countries citizens' rights are severely restricted. While our vaccination rate is 85%, many African countries don't even reach 1%. On top of that, the social and economic consequences of the COVID-19 crisis will continue for a long time. From my trade union background and after five years of Social Affairs spokespersonship, I am aware of the vulnerable position that many Dutch people are in and of the attention and strength needed to change and improve that. But that does not mean that we should never close our eyes and want to close our eyes to the millions of people worldwide who are equally heavy and often many times heavier. With that, I do not raise a question of guilt, but I appeal to everyone's empathic ability. I dare to dream about a world where everyone has equal opportunities, where it doesn't matter where you were born or what religion your parents adhere to. The Labour Party wants to get out of the trenches and find opportunities that ultimately make us all better. Let it vaccinate worldwide now be an unprecedentedly clear example of that. We as the Netherlands and the European Union are incredibly connected with the people we are talking about today. The choices we make, and certainly our entrepreneurs, with our financial resources, can make the difference on the other side of the world, the difference between food or no food, education or no future. That is why it is a good thing that we are discussing this budget tonight. Let's not wait for a new cabinet. Let us now make a concrete contribution. Mr. Chairman. Although current economic figures show that budgetary imbalances do not directly lead to disaster, this budget remains at about 0.53% of GDP. My question is, why is that? Last year, the Cabinet received advice from the International Affairs Advisory Council to release at least 1 billion extra for development aid. My appeal to the cabinet: increase the budget now, to 0.7%. Mr President, then there is something positive. I would like to thank the Minister for the continued commitment to children's and women's rights. Children and women are the main victims of the covid crisis. They are often the primary care workers. They are overrepresented in the informal economy and therefore financially more vulnerable, for example when international companies suddenly cancel orders as a result of shopping and border closures. There has also been an increase in sexual and gender-related violence since the corona pandemic. There is still no action plan to combat this shadow pandemic. No specific funds from the Dutch COOVID-19 response have been used for the time being. What is the concrete commitment to combating gender-based violence as a result of the COVID-19 crisis? In order to promote this minister's commitment to effective policies, I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to make gender mainstreaming a serious and structural part of the policy. If there is not enough commitment everywhere to make this a serious and structural part of the regular tasks, there is insufficient understanding of the effects of development and emergency aid, peace and security policy and policy implementation. Will women and girls be reached? Are there any drawbacks for them? Who is watching when, for example, new trade policies are being created or existing policies tested? Therefore, how does the Minister envisage drawing up a national implementation plan in accordance with the criteria of the EU Gender Action Plan, similar to the National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security? Coherence is also needed for sustainable development goals. How does government policy contribute to which development goals? We received a letter on the effective and comprehensive implementation of the SDG agenda and its coordination. Does the Minister share the view that this coordination should also be a matter of substance and that a coordinating director should have formal powers to carry out that SDG test? Mr. Chairman. We all agree that support for strengthening civil society is urgently needed. As far as we are concerned, additional resources should be available on top of the current commitment and in addition to the deployment of multilateral channels. That is why I tabled an amendment together with Mr Hammelburg, Mr Kuik and Mr Van der Lee. We'd like to double resources in the Civic Space Fund. The financial area is there in the budget. How does the Minister view that? Then there is the use of resources. How nice would it be if the organisations that can also use innovation and join forces to defend the social space? Does the Minister share that thought? Is he prepared to allow the Civic Space Fund funds to be deployed with that focus and with as little pre-imposed restrictions as possible on the basis of theme and type of organisation? Mr. Chairman. The International Affairs Advisory Council also advises to focus more on poverty reduction. I do not need to tell this minister that cash transfers for education and health are important elements in the fight against poverty, along with living wages and fair trade. We have now received a letter about the latter with the building blocks for IMVO legislation. Mr Jasper van Dijk has already said that this legislation is necessary, because it is fairer, not only for the whole chain, but also for the Dutch companies that comply with the IMVO directives while their competitors do not. It is more honest for consumers, who want to do the right thing and who now find it difficult to make the right choices. How does the Minister view this? Finally, Mr President. Corona did not leave the Netherlands and did not leave Europe. It will not soon disappear from the world as long as the vaccination rate in developing countries is lagging behind. Not only will people become unnecessarily ill, but the virus will also be more likely to mutate into a dangerous form. Economic damage will also continue as long as restrictions on international trade continue to exist. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what possibilities he sees to speed up the Dutch contribution to COVAX. In what period can COVAX have the promised 27 million vaccines? And what is the commitment to sharing patents and knowledge so that the production of vaccines can be increased worldwide and countries become less dependent on the remains, now that countries in the Western world are still buying large-scale vaccines for their own use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u70	Thank you. Then we're gonna listen to Mrs. Kuik from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u71	Mr President, thank you. My colleague on Trade, Mustafa Amhaouch, will be responsible for the trade section. I'm going to talk about development cooperation. Between the Dutch news about corona and the riots, there was an item that is in stark contrast to the rest, namely a reportage on Yemen. The little Samar weighed 13 kilos first, but now only 7. The emaciated girl is exhausted, as are hundreds of thousands of other children in Yemen. A war has caused this to happen. Hunger is used as a weapon in that. I do not know how to solve this long-term cruel war and the conflict in Ethiopia, but I ask the Minister how we will prevent us from watching powerlessly with the international community. It's heartbreaking. It could also destabilise the entire region. What instruments can we use internationally and at European level so that we can see the end? I know that giving help is dangerous. To what extent can the use of drones with food packages contribute to this? I'm really talking about emergency aid. Mr. Chairman. The suffering of children in the world must be our concern. Trafficking in women, abuse and oppression are the order of the day. Together with the Christian Union, we ask the Minister to continue the approach to child prostitution in 2022. I'm afraid that's necessary. We see that girls often fall short and that equal rights are far from self-evident. Even if you see what it takes, the courage can fall into your shoes. Fortunately, there are bright spots, people who make a huge difference in their own community in their own way. I spoke to Pari Ibrahim, who fled as a jezidi girl with her parents from Saddam Hussein to the Netherlands. In August 2014, Jezidis in Iraq are being hunted by the terror group IS. A lot of men get killed. Women and girls are kidnapped and sold as slaves and raped. Despite the genocide and the horrible facts, this story was told only little internationally. Pari set up the Free Yezidi Foundation. The foundation shows the power of civil society. The strength of this help is that women from their own community have been trained to provide psychological assistance to victims, making those victims more willing to tell about their traumas. This relationship of trust helps the victims, but also helps the authorities to gather more information to bring offenders to justice. This involvement is sustainable, because aid workers are part of the community. The CDA asks the Minister exactly what we do for Jezidi women who have become victims of IS. I'm thinking specifically of women who have children from rape and can't go back to their own community with that child. Is the community looking at what needs to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u72	I had actually saved this interruption for tomorrow, for the asylum budget, but Mrs Kuik is now bringing it up, and that is her full right. My question is whether she agrees that we should indeed look at what we should do for this terribly vulnerable group. It's really an exceptional story. I don't have to explain that to Mrs. Kuik. The Jezidi community has become a victim of genocide and what has happened to women cannot be described with a pen. Should we not look at a special programme, such as Germany, France and Canada, to help some of these victims in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u73	I find the programme that is taking place in Germany very interesting. I have spoken with Pari and it also indicates how important it is to involve people from one's own community, so that aid is also effective. She has a view of that. I think it is important that we do what is effective, just for those women, and that they get what they need, so that those traumas can actually be processed. So I find it interesting. I absolutely want to look at that, but I want to talk to that community and the people who are close to it to see what is most necessary. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go back to the power of civil society. We know that civil society has been under pressure all over the world lately. In recent years, the cabinet has tended to organise everything multilaterally. I wonder whether this is enough to achieve our goals, because control of multilateral organisations is much more difficult. Can the Minister indicate how the position of civil society remains firmly anchored? Mr. Chairman. Global challenges, such as the corona crisis, show that disasters do not stick to borders. If we are to combat the challenges of our time effectively, we will need an international approach. I say to parties in this Chamber who pretend that disasters are a bad film from Verweggistan that we are not part of and should not spend a penny on: we, the leader of the rich countries, simply have to share, because it is not more than fair, but also out of self-interest. For the CDA, the major challenge in the coming years is the global approach to the health crisis. In spring, this Chamber asked the AIV for advice on the implementation of a Global Health Strategy. Now there's the virus. Soon it could be another virus. A long-term strategy is important. For the Netherlands, we can create a win-win situation, because in certain areas we are simply the best in the world. So we need to focus on areas where we excel and therefore have added value, such as the expertise in combating the fatal infectious disease TB. Finally, Mr President. An ugly effect of when there is little perspective for people is that traffickers and smugglers abuse the vulnerability. As far as the CDA is concerned, we need to integrate it more into tackling the root causes of migration. A good example is Libya, where smugglers are on international penalty lists. So far, however, only six people have been involved. We want to create an international framework for the pursuit of smugglers when they cross borders. The cabinet will have to work for this at the UN. What is the Minister's view of a further approach to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u74	That was a fine contribution by Mrs Kuik, also about the many fireplaces and victims in the world. Isn't that a good argument for trying to actually increase that budget for OS to 0.7? Can we find the CDA in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u75	That, of course, is what we have been saying for years, that we really need to get to that 0.7. We just agree. In reality, of course, we are not going to solve all the crises. So we also have to look and also dare to choose: what do we focus on and where do we ensure that we focus on our expertise, where we are best at? Germany, for example, has already developed such a Global Health Strategy. We can learn from that. But we also need to look at how we can connect and what we are good at, we need to make an extra effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u76	I fully agree with Mrs Kuik. We have to be smart. We also need the private investment of business to do so. But then we can still wait for the formation to take those steps to 0,7 with the CDA over the next few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u77	Sure. We have the ambition to take the steps towards that 0.7. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u78	Mr Van der Lee's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u79	I always like long-term ambitions, but we can also do something in the short term. In the past, this coalition has chosen to combine an intensification on Defence with an intensification on Development Cooperation. Now 300 million has been earmarked in the Hermans motion for a resolution for increased defence expenditure. Is the CDA not prepared to spend an additional 300 million on all of Mrs Kuik's wonderful ambitions? Can't we do some good business on that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u80	Of course, I can't just promise to pull things forward at once. But of course it is a good point that Mr Van der Lee makes about Defence, because OS is not on its own. You also need the Defense Department, which is committed to peace and justice. So that's connected, too. It is therefore not the case that what goes to Defence would not be good for the international strategy when it comes to development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u81	Then I will make another attempt: not 300, but 30 million for emergency aid. No, it's a little silly to relate that now to Tom van der Lee's justified interruption. But emergency aid is acute aid. I have made a specific amendment with concrete cover for this. It's very executable. So you don't have to hide behind the formation. You can now say: yes, I see the acute help that is needed now; we are going to see what we can achieve this week and Van Dijk, Jasper van Dijk, has made a nice proposal for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u82	I think it's nice that he's trying anyway, but I'm sticking to the answer I just gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u83	Clear, thank you very much. So much for Mrs Kuik's contribution. But we stay with the CDA, because now we're going to listen to Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u84	Mr. Chairman. Trade must reduce the world, bring people together and bridge contradictions through the emergence of reciprocal dependence. However, this principle calls for a strengthening of the international legal order, because international trade is also based on trust. That is certainly true when it comes to common rules of the game. For the CDA, it is therefore important that we give more substance to trade through the move towards equal cooperation on economic development. Not only economic growth is important, but also the content of decent jobs, of bread on the shelf for future generations. I refer here again to the SDG 8. Promoting trade and economic development must go hand in hand with providing perspective, here and in third countries. Business also plays an important role in maintaining good international relations and taking social responsibility. We want to appeal to companies more and more. Mr. Chairman. Better a good neighbor than a distant friend. I would like to say that we must continue to invest in relations with our neighbouring countries. The Germans, the Belgians and the British are still the main trading partners of the Netherlands. I'm getting to the priorities. First of all, I would like to mention the reduction of trade balance. We need to focus on a strong economic trading position from and within Europe, and on a European economy that can be more autonomous with respect to other major trading blocs. This means even more cooperation and creating new opportunities with our European partners. Think of the cases we have had, with Airbus and Boeing, with the exports of AMSL machines to China, or with the Chinese electric buses that come on the European market with Chinese state aid. These are examples of trade tensions that we have to find an answer to ourselves. We shouldn't be getting any smaller than we are. The second point is that in the Netherlands there is a great shortage of practical and technically trained professionals. We have tabled a motion on this subject to the Economic Affairs budget in order to arrive at an attack plan that really has to make a difference. Without these people, all our ambitions will come to a halt in the field of all transitions and our future earning ability. How is this image in Europe? What are the needs, opportunities and threats in Europe? How can we work more together in this area? Mr President, the third point is the focus on Africa. Our priorities are food security, climate and digitalisation. This is also where business can make a valuable contribution and a win-win situation arises. According to UNICEF, almost half of the African population is under 18 years of age. There's a huge potential here. We, as Europe and as the Netherlands, must quickly join the African internal market. How can we realize that and what plans are there? What progress has been made in drawing up the Africa Strategy and what results has the Africa Task Force achieved so far? Can the Minister come forward with some facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u85	We know the CDA as a party committed to development cooperation. We have heard the same thing from your colleague, Mrs Kuik. I hear Mr Amhaouch calling for more cooperation in Africa, but also, above all, increasing the market for Europe and the Netherlands in Africa. Does this even rhyme with development cooperation? Because with this development cooperation, we want to ensure that local African farmers have opportunities to develop the economy there. If you are going to increase markets for European businesses in Africa, is that going to be at the expense of those local farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u86	We as CDA consider that very different. It is precisely towards the future that you hope that development cooperation to Africa can become less and less. Africa is a continent of 55 countries. There are countries already saying: we really want to get rid of the OS infusion. Take Rwanda and a number of other countries. There are also nice examples, such as Heineken or DSM. DSM set up children's food factories there. This created decent jobs there. That's the win-win we're trying to realize. Local farmers provide the supply, Dutch technology that can set up a factory there, giving you perspective and a very great potential for the young people there and creating decent jobs. That win-win doesn't bite each other. That is what we need to do, otherwise we will be able to repeat the whole discussion we have just had about root causes of migration and climate transition if we do not create decent jobs. Whether it's our Unilevers, our Heinekens or our SMEs, we need to focus on that and hope that there will be a perspective that we'll ever get rid of that OS. As long as it takes, it's necessary. But it has to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u87	It sounds very nice, that we can strengthen local farmers and cooperation by increasing the market. But reality is different. Because what we see is that the Netherlands, but also Europe, are increasingly committed to free trade agreements, with no binding condition for improving local conditions. We see only bad examples, not only for the farmers there, but also for the farmers here. The CDA supports these free trade agreements. So maybe we can work towards fair trade, but now we really see something else in reality, namely free trade at the expense of local farmers. Can the CDA at least say: this free trade, we have to get rid of it, we are going to set fair conditions for this trade to help the farmers there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u88	The first thing we might find each other is that we are talking about fair trade, with equality between the African Union and Europe. It is precisely free trade agreements that can help. The best thing is that Africa itself, those 55 countries, have created an open market. They themselves created the intra-African trade treaties. If you remove border barriers in Namibia, for example, you create space, also for the Dutch companies that are there. I fully dispute here that everything that the Netherlands or Europe does in Africa is bad. There have also been excesses; we have also discussed them here in this Chamber. With the commitment of our beautiful companies, we can do a great deal for us there, but also for the young people there. Because as UNICEF says, half is under 18 years old. We also have a social responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u89	That's a long answer. But I also heard Mr Amhaouch say that free trade agreements improve the situation. What free trade agreement has so far brought about an improvement for local people, local farmers? Can you give me one example of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u90	On free trade agreements, we discussed CETA here in the Chamber. Quite a few parties were against it. We have negotiated hard and hard to incorporate European values and standards. With each trade agreement, we have only increased the standard, and not lowered it, especially in recent years. I hope that the Animal Party will also see that at some point. I hope we can find each other on points. That doesn't have to be on everything, otherwise it's one pot of wet in here. We shouldn't have that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u91	No, we'll be done here soon. Yeah, so what are we still doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u92	I just heard Mr. Amhaouch make a very good plea. I fully agree with that. Before Mrs Teunissen interrupted, you concluded that the ideal is ultimately that there is no need for a development cooperation budget. I'm fine with that, too. But not so long ago, in the previous contribution, Mrs Kuik correctly said: in the long term, we want it to go to 0.7% of GNI. Both seem a little crazy to me. So what's the line now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u93	If you have a dot on the horizon, you have to put it in the right perspective. We have an objective: to that 0.7%. I just said Africa is made up of 55 countries. That's not one country. You have to look at what you say on a country-by-country basis. I mentioned Rwanda. That's where they say they don't want OS anymore, I think, in 2025, but fair opportunities for economic developments. Then you have to look at that very seriously. Then you can still say you put the IV in, but that's not the point. There are other countries where you can help. As Mrs Kuik argued, I believe that we should all work together to ensure that all these countries say: we can now move to a different stage. Mr President, I shall continue. I would have stayed at point four. This is about the internationalisation of our SMEs. Relative economic growth of the Netherlands will increasingly be outside Europe. Africa is an important growth continent, with many unexplored paths that we have to walk. We can't wait for others to lay down the asphalt. What is the progress of the Weverling/Amhaouch motions? These concern the action plan 15/15, involving 15 consortia in 15 countries, and the deployment of the internationalisation of SMEs through regional development companies, i.e. the Trade Relations Programme, the TRP. The government must act as a flywheel. That's why we founded Invest International. But I understand that there are problems with the development of programmes, which makes projects difficult to get off the ground. Can the Minister reflect on this? My final point. The CDA does indeed believe that the cabinet should remain at the table of the IMVO agreements until we have moved on to European legislation, of course translated into Dutch legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u94	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van Haga. Would you stand still for a moment, Mr. Amhaouch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u95	Mr Amhaouch speaks, so this is a perfect opportunity to interrupt my old friend again. You are talking about the need for international trust. We are of course a very small country, although with the sixteenth economy of the world. But I wonder: should we not, given what has been happening recently, also restore internal confidence a little bit? Shell and Unilever are all leaving. Foreign trade becomes a foreign walk. The location climate is under pressure. That is also part of foreign trade. The competitive position is incredibly affected. We are very busy with climate and all kinds of fun things. The charges are going up. We have also talked about China in the past. We have hardly been able to do anything about China falling over us. SMEs are deeply affected by this. Do you agree with me that we should also do something internally, instead of having a wonderful story here about all kinds of foreign things that we hardly have any influence on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u96	I think Mr Van Haga is really missing the point. He is right that we should have our homework in order in the Netherlands. I asked for Shell in oral question last week. It's a sad moment when the Royal Shell gets unraveled and gets out of here. A company operating in 140 countries opens doors to a small country such as the Netherlands in relation to large foreign countries. I agree with Mr Van Haga. We have requested a debate on this. I sincerely hope that there will be a new cabinet before Christmas. That would be a blessing. Then we want to talk about the location climate in the Netherlands with the entire Chamber, from left to right and from right to left. That's what we have to do. But you can't say: we're gonna hide behind the dikes and we're gonna leave the big country to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u97	That's very nice, but if you screw up here and everybody goes abroad happy, you have nothing more to say about foreign trade. But there's something else I've been working on. You said that three points are extremely important to the CDA. It was about Africa. Every year you come up with the Africa strategy. That's the advantage if you deal with the budget for BuHa-OS more often. Three points are important for the CDA: food security, climate and digitalisation. I was allowed to live in Africa for a number of years, in Gabon. Do you really think they're sitting there waiting for this kind of crap? They just want a normal trade relationship with us. They want to do business with us without too much trouble, rather than digitisation and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u98	We can trade with anything. The Netherlands is a minister and a merchant. We can trade with anything. It's about where we set our priorities. Where can the Netherlands make the difference? This is about food security and food development. We come up with innovative solutions for a continent facing enormous climate challenges. You can say that there is no such thing as climate change, but it does exist. How are you going to feed a continent that instantly counts 2.5 billion people? I just gave you an example of how to do that. If you say that we can mean nothing in that regard with the University of Wageningen and all the knowledge our farmers have, then I wonder: what planet do you live on, Mr Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u99	On exactly the same planet as Mr. Amhaouch. On the continent of Africa, the problem is diverse. One country has different problems than the other, but most countries benefit more from trade than from the promotion of digitalisation and climate. I think you have always agreed with me so far that trade is better than aid and all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u101	I wonder why the CDA considers those three things most important, while the CDA used to propagate: we are going to act, because that is good for the Netherlands and for Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u102	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u103	Again, I don't think it's necessary to collide. You can trade on all kinds of things. If those countries want to trade with us on certain things, we will. But if we want to focus on our strategy ourselves, then we can do so on these points. As for food security: once again, we have the best growers in the Netherlands in the world. The best! They develop the best seeds to grow tomatoes in Africa. And then you say, "Why are we gonna do that?" I really don't understand any of that. In South Holland, you should go to the glorifiers and say, "Retreat from Africa." Mr. Van Haga, we're a merchant enough to trade on everything, but I think it's also good to focus as a small country. Then we'll go across the street and get some bread on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u104	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago, at the time of the Millennium Development Goals, the state of development cooperation in the world actually went quite well. We saw important indicators moving in the right direction. The number of people who were starving fell. The number of people whose life expectancy increased grew. We saw a number of major lingering conflicts moving in the right direction. We even saw that a number of African countries belonged to the group of the fastest growthers in the world. But that time is no longer. We have managed to develop the Sustainable Development Goals, but we have seen a sharp decline in all these indicators due to a combination of reasons. I would like to mention the reasons: the credit crisis and the global recession in 2008, the failure of the Arab Spring, the impact of the corona crisis, and the consequences of climate change, which are particularly striking in the poorest countries. You see in many of these economies that already have problems, the sum of these four events is that their economy has shrunk. I'm in favour of trade. I am in favour of creating added value in developing countries themselves. But some of these crises bear the stamp of rich countries and their behaviour. They have caused problems in the poorest part of the world. There's a responsibility there. Karl Popper said, "There is a moral duty to optimism." It's hard when you bring bad news. But he meant that the future is open, and that we all have an individual responsibility to decide what the future looks like. This means that we as the Netherlands, one of the richest and one of the earliest industrialised countries and one of the largest trading nations in the world, have an additional responsibility towards the poorest countries in the world. We can't do that alone. We can appeal to others, including China; I fully agree with that. But we are talking today about our own contribution, our own development cooperation budget, which has reached a historic low of 0.43%. We are talking today about the fact that we are not delivering our fair share in the fight against the pandemic with regard to the transport, the refrigerated delivery of vaccines in the right place. We have made promises to others that we do not keep. Where does that lead in Glasgow? That we are not taking the steps necessary to protect the Netherlands from the impact of climate change. I would like to say this strongly, because it is up to the coalition parties, which are now negotiating again, to make the fine words about the weather growing to 0.7% also true. That can already be done today by deciding to match the amount that went to the Defence Department during the General Reviews; I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Why don't we just add $300 million to deal with all these needs quickly? And one more thing. The next climate summit will take place in Egypt. We already know that the debate on climate finance and the debate on looses and damages will be crucial. Additional efforts will have to be made with regard to climate diplomacy to ensure that those countries that now feel that we do not keep our promises do not choose again for the fossilized countries. Those countries are a real brake on the progress we want. So here, too, is a task for the Minister. I am curious to see what the plans of the Netherlands are for strengthening climate diplomacy in the near future. In order to see what we are doing with our help, there are also some interesting data to get from the OECD data. You can see that in recent years, the number of countries we have given a great deal of help to has grown from 15 to 22. We also see that local ownership and context-specific programming have decreased. The central control from The Hague has just increased. Both developments are at odds with what scientists demonstrate about the effectiveness of help. You just need to be more decentralised. I call on the Minister to take steps to give policy more focus in that regard and to ensure local ownership more strongly than is currently the case. I also mentioned climate finance and the importance of Invest International. Here in the Netherlands, we give uneconomic top funding to enable new investments in the field of energy transition. But in our instruments of climate finance, we are not yet where we need to be. We give more than a quarter to European countries. Most of it comes from developing countries where you can make a profit without too many risks, but we also have to do it where the risks are still high. So you have to be able to take some losses or finance an uneconomic summit at the beginning. I believe that within the existing instruments, adjustments are possible to achieve this. Is the Minister prepared to make a living for that? On the positive side, Europe has come up with a plan, a sort of forest law, to counter the dramatic deforestation. Very recently, of the week, it became clear that the Amazon has deteriorated even faster in the past year than ever before. My question to the Minister on this point is: is the Netherlands going to ensure that the Forest Law is ambitious enough? The aim is also to make a more critical assessment of products from countries where deforestation takes place. The concern is to work with a distinction between risky and low-risk countries. It provokes strategic behavior. Then you're gonna let your trade run through low-risk countries. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to ensure that there is equal treatment and that this kind of possible route for money laundering is countered. There has been a lot of talk about imvo. We are going to discuss this in another debate, but we still do not have the plan from Brussels. Are you kidding me? When the minister took office, one of his promises was: I'm going to make a hard time about that; I'm going to make sure it's there in time. In the meantime, the deadline has shifted again. Will we get Reynders' proposal before Christmas, yes or no? I see Mr Hammelburg shaking no. This brings me to the initiative law that we are working hard on. That initiative law, that national step, is needed to strengthen pressure on Europe. I am also in favour of European regulation. That's great. It is nice that the ESC has given an opinion on this, although I think that the trade unions agree with us that it is good to take that national step. Is the Minister prepared to work on this now, also because Brussels is not really coming through? Colleagues have tabled two amendments. I'm not going to explain it anymore. That's what I'm for. What Mr Van Dijk said about his amendment sounded good to me too, but I have not yet seen it. So I'm gonna take a good look at that. I'll leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u106	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Klink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u107	I could have asked the question earlier, but I wonder why Mr Van der Lee wants to abandon the agreements on climate finance. I heard you say in your contribution that too much money goes to European countries. The agreement was $100 billion in structural terms from the Annex I countries to the non-Annex-I countries from 2030 onwards. So that could also be European countries. You seem to want to distance yourself from that in your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u108	Well, I don't want to distance myself from that, but I can see that there is an evolution going on, including in European climate policy. We recently had the debate on Fit for 55. There are also funds, such as a fair transition fund and a social climate fund, precisely to promote that fair transition in Europe. That is also what additional resources are being used for. And then I think it's a little bit double to give these extra European funds to those Eastern European countries, because they're mainly Eastern European countries and at the same time they're doing it from our own climate finance. Then that part could be better used for poor countries outside the European Union. That is how I see an evolution in the whole debate on climate finance. I assume that the VVD also sees it, although I understand that the VVD is still trying to stop that fund at European level; that is the VVD agenda, I understand. I assume that this fund will be there, but then we could also make it possible to adapt to the poorest countries in terms of climate finance. Maybe we can find each other in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u109	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Ceder, from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are living in unstable times and global challenges are also great. However, major steps have been taken in the area of global developments in recent decades. Think of the worldwide halving of poverty since 1990. 90% of children in developing countries go to primary school, and diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis have largely been stopped. Development cooperation is not an end in itself; the goal must always be to enable self-sufficiency and progress in countries. Mr. Chairman. Despite the steps and positive messages I have just mentioned, we must at the same time recognise that there are more conflicts, more refugees and more migrants than ever before. 736 million people still live in extreme poverty. They have less than a dollar and 90 cents a day to live on. Moreover, we see that areas worldwide are becoming less habitable due to climate change, with all its consequences. The commitment of the Christian Union has always been that we stand for a generous and decisive development cooperation policy. Development cooperation must really contribute to improving the situation of the most vulnerable in the world. It is precisely at this time of the pandemic that we also notice how closely the fate of all people is connected and how, given our economic position, we can and should bear an additional responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I want to be right about the vaccinations. My colleague, Mr Bikker, has previously tabled a motion on this subject with other parties; I heard Mr Hammelburg say something about it. What is the state of play? A good policy on development cooperation is a coherent policy. This is a Dutch policy with a view to the impact of this policy on other areas and on developing countries. In 2019, therefore, the SDG test was added to the integral balancing framework that we use in policy and regulation. However, this test is still not being applied to legislative proposals which are relevant to developing countries. I would therefore ask the Minister to include the SDG test standard in the overall assessment framework for assessing the desired side effects in legislative proposals from the five main coherence ministries. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction and consider a motion on this matter. As my colleague Mr Kuik from the CDA pointed out, we have tabled an amendment to continue the fight against child prostitution. The Minister indicated earlier that he would like to evaluate whether the policy to combat child prostitution fits into a broader SRGR policy of the Ministry. I actually think that's a strange question, because why wouldn't it fit in? If I'm not mistaken, there's already been an evaluation. Why would a new evaluation make a difference? I'd like an answer to that. I hope the Minister welcomes the amendment. Mr. Chairman. If we use our resources in specific countries, it is important that the money actually reaches the most vulnerable people. I therefore also call for attention to be paid to people with disabilities, in accordance with the 'leave no one behind' principle. My predecessor, Mr Voordewind, has already drawn attention to this. But it seems that, since there have been a number of chamber letters about the developments around people with disabilities, these letters no longer come into being. Can this commitment and the preliminary report still be picked up? I would therefore also like to ask whether the Minister can undertake to pay explicit attention in the programmes to the inclusion of children and young people with disabilities. Depending on the Minister's response, I'm considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the developments in European imvo, but at the same time I understand that it will be years before implementation is completed. Can the Minister confirm that the current European Commission will no longer be able to complete its implementation in time? Does he therefore agree with me that national legislation can be a good means, as we have also indicated in recent years, to speed up this process, but also to influence it positively? Mr. Chairman. As I believe a number of colleagues have said, there are also agreements and possible sectoral agreements. In the meantime, while we are working on national legislation, can we include these covenants and ensure a smooth transition from covenant to legislation, ultimately resulting in European legislation? I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions. Over the past year we have asked questions about the shadowy side of orphanage tourism and the usually well-meant help of Dutch volunteers. In the reply, the Minister indicated that in the fourth quarter of this year, therefore, it would be possible to determine what is realistic, desirable and feasible to do about it. Can the Minister say anything about this by now? Predecessor, sorry, chairman. The country is also called Yemen. I wonder what the Minister can say about the extent to which aid can reach the most vulnerable. What are concrete barriers? I also have questions about Ethiopia. Is aid being sent to the provinces of Amhara and Afar, where the war has moved since June? Is it true that UN trucks have not returned from Tigray in Ethiopia? What action is being taken on this? What's the latest information on the food situation in Tigray, Amhara and Afar? Can the Minister indicate how many people are currently fleeing there and are dependent on help? Mr. Chairman. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u111	Thank you. The previous speaker has just added all the speaking time we have left to go together. It's 22 minutes. That means that you, excluding the interruptions, are outside at 9:40 p.m. We are going to listen to Mrs Teunissen from the Group of the Party of Animals. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u112	Thank you, Mr President. We have one Earth and we have to do it with it. But the case is that the Netherlands and other rich economies make up much more than the earth can generate every year of natural resources. The worst thing about it is that we are only beginning to feel it now because of the climate crisis, but the people who haven't had it so easy in this world have felt it for a long time. I am thinking of the people on the Fiji Islands who see sea levels rising rapidly. I am also thinking of local populations in the Amazon and I am thinking of people on Sumatra who see their surroundings, the rainforest, disappear. The Dutch economy and the other Western economies make it much more difficult for people in developing countries than you could solve with any development budget. If we really want to combat poverty, if we want to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees, and if we want to protect our ecosystems from collapse, then our trade policy must change drastically. As long as the Netherlands continues to favour polluting multinationals, facilitates the destruction of nature in the global south and exposes local farms to unfair competition, the Netherlands itself continues to cause this misery. deforestation is still increasing and the Amazon is suffering from the highest level of deforestation in 15 years. Dutch cows graze through the large-scale import of soya for animal feed, in former rainforest. In the Cerrado, the most biodiverse savannah in Brazil, half of the natural vegetation has already been lost by the construction of soy plantations and grassland. The Netherlands is one of the largest consumers of soya for animal feed from this region. Our agriculture is therefore a co-cause of deforestation there. Every day in the Cerrado, 2,000 acres of nature are lost. During the climate summit, the Netherlands, together with other countries, promised to stop deforestation. So my question to the Minister is what his plan is to stop the Dutch companies' share of the natural destruction taking place there? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the free trade agreements. We have done that pledge in Glasgow against deforestation, but the Minister for Trade did the opposite on return: helping the European Commission to conclude more disruptive trade agreements and co-thinking about saving the Mercosur Treaty, which has already been wiped out by this Chamber. While CETA has not even been approved by the First Chamber, we are yet to conclude another treaty with New Zealand. Mr. Chairman. Expanding markets, and thus exploiting and exacerbating the climate crisis, is the foundation of any free trade agreement. It has more free trade as its objective. There are no inlays or complaints mechanisms against that. Does the Minister agree with the Animal Party? Mr. Chairman. Let me give you an example of unfair trade. Burkina Faso is currently inundated with milk powder from FrieslandCampina. Local farmers are forced to stop their farms. At the same time, Burkina Faso receives 28 million in development money that is trying to help local farmers. What opportunities does the Minister see to prevent such food dumping and unfair competition and to promote self-reliant food security in the global south? Mr. Chairman. This is just one example. In other words, we are maintaining a destructive system whereby we import soya for which nature is destroyed. Then we use that soy for cows to make milk and export its products, which means that local farmers have no chance and we sit here with the shit, the nitrogen and the methane emissions. Let us stop producing so much meat and dairy and support that export. Let us work towards sustainable and more regional agriculture. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u113	Mr Klink's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u114	That's always risky: do I want to use it now or not? Anyway, I want to do it. I hear Mrs Teunissen say a lot of negative things about trade agreements and companies like FrieslandCampina. I do not know whether Mrs Teunissen is aware that it is precisely by agreements with a country in Africa that farmers are being taught to milk cows and that farmers are being brought a lot further. Now they're just pretending that they're just dumping milk powder there. Of course, that's not the real story. The real story in a country like Nigeria, for example, is that a farmers' cooperative like FrieslandCampina is working there to teach those farmers how to milk. Can't you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u115	Why should an African farmer from the Netherlands learn how to milk a cow? Isn't that a ridiculous, neo-colonial view? They can do that themselves, can't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u116	No, that's really...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u117	Mr President, may I finish my point? That's exactly what I'm talking about. There's a pretence, like: we're going to explain how to build an economy. There is, of course, a commercial interest behind this, the importance of Dutch companies. It is not at all in the interests of local farmers to encourage large companies there with export credit insurance, with agricultural councils. That is not at all in the interests of local farmers there. They can perfectly build their own local economy if we give them the space to do so. That's what's not happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u118	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u119	Mr. Chairman. I had reached my final point: the budget for development cooperation. We in the Netherlands have agreed that we would spend 0.7% of what we all earn every year on helping people who need it very much. That percentage is now historically low. It hasn't been this low in 40 years. Moreover, it also pays for all public climate financing, while the international agreement is that climate financing must be new and additional, and so it needs to recover. Is the Minister prepared to increase the development budget and comply with the agreement that climate finance should be new and additional?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u120	Thank you. Then Mrs Koekkoek from the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, the cabinet described trade as a driving force for sustainable economic development and as an essential part of tackling poverty. That is right, but economic growth cannot be without social development and climate change. The world is changing. Developing countries are growing at a rapid pace. That is why we must strive for equal partnerships. For example, there are a number of challenges that we need to address worldwide, such as digital transition, climate and rule of law. Progress on the EU-Africa strategy, which is committed to an equal partnership, is therefore essential. That is why I ask the Minister: what are the expectations for the EU-Africa strategy under the French Presidency? Can the Minister give an indication of the Dutch commitment to the Summit in February? Can he indicate how the Dutch commitment has developed in recent years to make the partnership with Africa more equal? Mr. Chairman. The African continent is growing rapidly. The technological developments there are moving very quickly. For example, Ethiopian software developers developed the first humanoid with citizenship, Sophia, while the Netherlands mainly invests in Dutch flowering companies. Does the Minister see opportunities to look at investments differently so that they are more forward-looking? How does the budget provide support for the technological development of developing countries? Then the climate transition. Climate funding has so far failed to reach local and vulnerable communities, while climate disasters are increasing and are expected to lead to an increase in refugee numbers. Prevention is better than cure. That is why I would like to know from the Minister what considerations are behind the reductions in climate investment in the BuHa-OS budget of 2023 and 2024. Should climate investment not be the top priority and go hand in hand with the recovery of economies after the pandemic? What percentage of COOVID-19 investment is being used for green recovery? The Deputy Secretary-General of the UN proposes 20%. Do we follow that as the Netherlands? Then rule of law, Chairman. Globally, there is a downward trend in the areas of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. At the same time, the Netherlands invests a lot of money in cooperation with authoritarian regimes in the framework of migration management. This contradicts each other, especially if we reduce investment in civil society in the budget. How does the Minister justify this reduction? Can the Minister indicate what these funds are being invested in? Furthermore, the percentage of the development budget is falling every year, while investment in humanitarian aid and prevention is urgently needed. Volt therefore invites the Minister, following other parties, to increase the development budget of 2022 by 300 million and to remove the structural reduction in development cooperation of 1.4 billion, in order to return to that international standard of 0.7% as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. A lot of things are going well, too. Volt is pleased that the present outgoing cabinet acts so consistently in gender diversity. This is urgently needed as the pandemic increases sexual and gender-related violence. I therefore ask the Minister to make additional investments for freedom of choice, sexual education, access to contraception and good sanitation, and, following Sweden and Switzerland, to give 30% to 35% of ODA to civil society organisations. Volt also calls for more attention to be paid to children and young people. Focusing on prevention also means investing in the new generations. However, this is not yet reflected in the current budget. How does the budget focus on education and mental health care? Does the Minister see any possibilities for improvement here? And what is the Minister's position on the appointment of an international coordinator for children's rights? Mr. Chairman. The ODA budget is still used for non-developmental expenditure, such as the first year costs of Dutch asylum shelter. How does the Minister explain that these are included in the development budget and not in the budget of Justice and Security? In addition, we see that the Dutch refugee policy focuses mainly on reception in the region. On the one hand, that is understandable, because many refugees will remain in the region anyway. However, this puts additional pressure on regions that are already under pressure. This leads to more instability and thus to more refugees in the long term. How does the Minister explain the cuts in the budget for reception in the region? What steps will the Minister take to ensure that there is sufficient financial support for local organisations? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I'm gonna end up where we started. Trade and development cooperation are two sides of the same coin. The legislation on international corporate social responsibility is an important step in this respect. In the meantime, the first European proposal has been leaked. Can the Minister give an appreciation of the expected European CSR proposal and the Dutch ambition with regard to imvo legislation? In two weeks' time it has been said that we are going to have a debate on this, so I also keep the substantive questions until then, but I would like to know from the Minister whether the opinion of the Economic and Social Council is merely being used for a European proposal. If so, when has this choice been made and why, especially since ambitious Dutch legislation can be an extra strong crowbar in the upcoming European negotiations? If not, will the Minister then work on the law on child labour of 2019, as mentioned earlier by colleague Van Dijk? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u122	Thank you. I call Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u123	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I must say that I am also speaking on behalf of BBB. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his current position. I know him as an extremely effective Permanent Representative to the EU in Brussels, always excited in the corridors of power. All the more so, this proves the rule: if you walk along long enough, you will meet again. Mr. Chairman. As far as development cooperation is concerned, we can be sad, but we can also see some light. There is a great deal of sadness and drama here, but I would like to highlight those points of light. At present, 9.2% of the world's population lives on or below the poverty line. In 1990 that was 36%. So there is certainly progress. However, I would like to make the point that the situation is worse in the Middle East and North Africa. This is where most immigration to Europe occurs. Economic improvement there is therefore also in our interest. It is now possible to ask whether this overall progress is the result of a more sensible economic policy or development cooperation. I'm inclined to say the first thing. The economic development of China and India brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. Economic freedoms are the driving force behind development. There is a kind of dilemma in development cooperation. Where development cooperation helps, it is often not necessary and where it is needed it does not help. It can be seen in many countries, whether it is Vietnam, Venezuela, Cuba, Zimbabwe, South Africa and so on. Liberal economic policy is better than a socialist. Then Foreign Trade. I believe that this policy is better suited to Foreign Affairs as such or to Economic Affairs than to Development Cooperation. External trade focuses primarily on the major economic centres of the world. That's where we have to defend our own interests. Now there is a fiction of an ideal, the ideal of the hand that acts and the hand that helps, but reality is completely different. The Netherlands must be competitive in this harsh world. The Dutch Trade and Investment Fund, which makes business abroad easier, will be halved by the Minister in 2022, so next year. That's why I'm asking him why. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have 30 seconds left of my darlings, the NGOs. The aid policy is embedded in an opaque network of NGOs. Can the Minister provide me with a list of NGOs in his sector and the amounts of subsidies? I wish the Minister the same success in The Hague as he had in Brussels. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u124	Thank you. The one-after-last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u125	Mr. Chairman. There's a story in the Bible about a woman who's lost blood for 12 years. Actually every doctor had already visited them, with the result: broke and not a step further. Until she heard of the miracles by the Jesus of Nazareth. Despite the shame she went to him and touched the hem of his cloak. Then it says: immediately she noticed to her body that she was cured of that condition. Medically and socially a huge outcome. If you say "I don't know that story," you can read it in Marcus 5. Mr. Chairman. I do not call this for nothing, because we need to pay attention to mental health. Many women worldwide still face restrictions due to stigmatisation or insufficient access to resources. My question to the Minister is whether he would like to explicitly prioritise this within the commitment to SDG 6 and emergency aid, including through ambitious, cross-sectoral targets and reports. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is in favour of a generous budget for development cooperation. Does the Minister agree that the costs of first-year reception of asylum seekers should be spread over all the departments concerned and not just on this budget? Let us add to the ODA budget a large amount of climate finance for the poorest countries such as Benin and Côte d'Ivoire, which are seriously affected by problems such as deforestation or coastal erosion. My question to the Minister is: what is his commitment to this? Mr. Chairman. For the SGP, the ODA standard of 0.7% remains the starting point. But that money must be spent responsibly: effective, efficient, transparent and innovative. The questions to the Minister are: does the Minister want to explore how wider public money can be used as a lever for private funding within the OS policy? And does he want half of the OS budget to flow directly to NGOs and civil society organisations? Mr. Chairman. Special assistance remains necessary for citizens in distressing humanitarian crises and conflicts. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to increase the emergency aid budget in structural terms to 400 million. The conflict in Ethiopia is of great concern to us and many NGOs. How can the Netherlands quickly promote a serious dialogue between the warring parties? Does the Netherlands also have diplomatic and humanitarian regard for forgotten conflicts in countries such as Yemen, Cameroon and Congo? Mr. Chairman. In this light, I note that banks are reducing a great deal of humanitarian aid as a result of sanctioning regimes. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees with me that this is not the intention. Mr. Chairman. For the SGP, the life of both a mother and her unborn child is precious. My question is whether the Minister will both continue to help through support for mother and child centres. In addition to gendercide, does he also want to promote international research into coercion or urge against women to have an abortion? Finally, Mr President. International trade is good for our earning ability. In doing so, we must, of course, take care of the fellow human beings and also of the creation. My question is therefore: what added value has a national or European legal framework for imvo over other measures, such as the Imvo support package? I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u126	Thank you. The last speaker tonight is Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u127	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the interest of the Netherlands is being called 'BVNL', as the chairman has just said, hardly any speaking time here in this house, in this undemocratic House of Representatives. I'm gonna try to make a few points in two lousy minutes anyway. Firstly, I would like to raise the issue of the locational environment and our international competitiveness. With the departure of Unilever and Shell we have definitely shown that we do not want to be a serious player on the world stage. Our industry is being bullied away by bureaucrats who impose all kinds of stupid rules. The most sustainable and efficient farmers in the world will be expropriated here in the coming years. All this because of a higher collectivist goal that is poured out upon us by the almighty State, which is led by one-dimensional bureaucrats who abhor ambition, profit and result. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is also concerned about the locational climate and about our international competitiveness, and what he is going to do about this. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that corona turned out to be nothing more than a heavy flu, the absurd government measures have caused great damage. We're gonna have to work hard to restore the economy. I therefore wonder what the Minister means by 'green and inclusive recovery in the aftermath of the pandemic'. What exactly are we going to do differently and what concrete measures has been taken by this Minister? Mr. Chairman. The British have left the sinking EU ship in the interests of Great Britain which exists, eh, the interest of the Netherlands. Can the Minister tell us what is going on with the current trade flows, where the pain is at the moment, and what is the burden of this as the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Finally, because I only have two minutes. The tax money spent on development aid is usually wasted money. It came back in a number of contributions just now. The use of this cabinet to pay care workers in Afghanistan with Dutch taxpayers' money while we ourselves are in the middle of a healthcare crisis and are too miserable to pay our healthcare workers decently in the Netherlands is a great insult. I would like to hear from the Minister how much money this is about and what the consideration is to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u128	Thank you. Mr Van Haga was today's last speaker. Ah, I have another interruption. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u129	Mr President, we cannot let people leave when they speak nonsense. However, I would like to ask Mr Van Haga, who says between his nose and lips that it is a heavy flu, to explain and explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u130	I do not think that is a subject for the BuHa-OS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u131	Mr President, I responded to what Mr Van Haga himself said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u132	Yes. Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u133	I'd like to be very brief about that. I have sometimes asked Mr Van Dissel this question during a technical briefing. The infection fatality rate of corona is 0.15 now and that is similar to that of a very strong flu. So basically, we're not in a corona crisis. The crisis was actually created by you, by the coalition, with all these weird measures. We're in a care crisis and that care crisis is the result of endless cuts and... yeah, I'm gonna finish. Anyway, we're having a heart attack. We just heard from the round table that we're going black on code in ten days. Well, you can charge yourself for that. It's a heart attack and not a corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u134	Clear. So much for the first term of the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-tweedekamer-18.u135	Thursday around 10:30 a.m. we're gonna listen to the minister. We wish him every success in preparing his answers.
