ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of members Bishop and Kwint amending the Law on Primary Education, the Law on Centres of Expertise, the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on Education and Vocational Education in connection with the abolition of the Teacher Register and the Registry Portal (35145). That's a mouthful. I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in Box K by Ms Petra Schijvenaars, policy officer at the SP, and Mr Leertuwer, policy officer at the SGP Group. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. He was already present, but he is now in a different capacity, as an advisor to the Chamber. The first deadline on the part of the Chamber took place on 23 January 2020. It's been a while. Today we are discussing the first-term response and the second-term answer as a whole. The mission is to do so within a certain time frame, preferably before 12.45 p.m., 13.00 p.m. Let's see how far we can get with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u2	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Bishop. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. You are right to say that it has been a long time since we talked about this in the first term. A number of colleagues have also been exchanged. I think it is a good thing that, on the basis of the answer, we also take colleagues a little with the content and history of this law. We will do our utmost, but that also depends a little on the interruptions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u4	And of your concise manner of speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u5	You have no idea how concise this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u6	This already?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u7	Yeah, this is already brief, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u8	That's a promise!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u9	I see you pulling out white, Mr. Chairman, but be strong, we'll do our best. This has to do with the fact that shortly afterwards the corona measures struck, so that a lot of things were simply moved forward, could not get priority and the meetings were scaled down. That has all contributed to it. Also speaking on behalf of Mr Kwint, we are very pleased that we can hopefully bring this to a conclusion in the aftermath of this cabinet. That's really very enjoyable, because it's not good if this whole thing about the teacher register hangs around like a sword of Damocles over the sector. Corona has not yet disappeared from education, nor has he left society, but fortunately we can take steps, I hope. As the questions put by Members of Parliament remain, the register has everything to do with the important issues of the shortage of teachers and professionalisation. It is important to clarify the direction we are taking when it comes to registering the new cabinet, also in relation to professionalisation. The initiators thank their colleagues very much for their business and sharp input. It is right that a number of points have been put to the attention of the House and that this has just as well been asked. We hope to be able to respond to that with satisfaction. We have divided that into four themes, which are now called in parliamentary jargon cubes. The first block is the necessity and solution of the teacher register, the second is the importance of professionalisation, the third block is the lack of teachers and the fourth block is the development of the profession and the development of the teacher register. We have agreed in such a way that I will deal with the first two and Mr Kwint will respond to the last two. Madam President. First, therefore, the need and the solution. Mrs Kuik and Mr Van Meenen asked the most basic question you can ask in a legislative proposal: what problem do we solve? The underlying question is, of course,: can we not spend our energy on something else? Mr Van Meenen used a rather crisp comparison. I don't know if he's still got it ready, but it was a firm statement. According to him, the teachers' register is just dead. We just forgot to bury the remains. According to him, the only question is: are we gonna bury the teacher register or leave the carcass for what it is? According to Mr Van Meenen, the text of the law is a dead letter, and our proposal would not help if there was another cabinet that would want another government teacher's register. Madam President. The initiators consider that this metaphor needs some adjustment. In our view, it is a more appropriate metaphor, which, by the way, fits in with Mr Van Meenen's metaphor, that the teacher register is not actually dead, but is in a deeply comatose state. Mr Van der Staaij has rightly pointed out that Mr Van Meenen's assumption that a next cabinet could get back to work is that a government register could indeed be revitalised at another time. And that is exactly what Mr Van Meenen and the initiators want to avoid as much as possible. From this commitment, it makes a substantial difference whether the teacher register as such is still in the law or out of it, which is the purpose of this initiative proposal. If the teacher register is still in the law, a new cabinet can bring it back to life at the push of a button, as a kind of Frankenstein monster, with all kinds of movements taking place. You know your classics, of course. Perhaps that will happen with some adjustments and some further regulation. But if the teacher register disappears from the law, there will simply have to be a very orderly procedure. Then there will be a new bill. The basic structure that is now in the law will have to go back to the Council of State for advice. On the basis of the coalition agreement, the House of Representatives may succeed, but the House of Representatives will also have to consider it. Then you get an orderly legislative procedure. If this happens, we are sure that, on the basis of the input from the field and the political discussions, there will be a substantially different structure than is currently the case. We say out of respect towards the field of education: you have to go in that carefully; you should not want to use a back door construction again. That's clear and clear. Mr Kwint will discuss further the development of the register in the fourth block. Madam President. The initiators would like to draw attention once again to the fundamental principles of state law which the House of Representatives must respect. The law on the teacher register has not only been accepted by the First and Second Chambers, signed by the King and elevated to law, but it has also entered into force. Laws that have entered into force must be applied and implemented. If laws prove impossible to implement or cause insurmountable problems, they must be remedied as soon as possible by a legislative amendment. In the meantime nothing has been done with the teacher register for four years. That's actually insufferable. It is impure under state law if laws or parts of them could be rendered ineffective or abandoned without any legislative amendment. Let me give you another example to give it a little more coloration. What if there's a donor registry? Shortly after its introduction, there will be a major protest from doctors who feel that the register does not adequately reflect their professional responsibility. The Minister then decides to terminate the register for an indefinite period of time. Even if you voted against the creation of such a register, you should not want to accept that route, because it is arbitrary and contrary to the fundamental guarantees provided by the rule of law. Madam President. The initiators feel no need to iron with any honor. Mr Van Meenen dared to say that former colleague Rog and he destroyed the teacher register, as well as the Education Co-operation. That is what he said happened with a lot of opposition from the Rutte II and Rutte III Cabinets. Honor to whom credit is due: indeed, it has been hard worked on. Their efforts are beyond question. Thus, the initiators do not change that, although it would of course have been even better if they had simply prevented the introduction of the register with the SP and the SGP. We wouldn't be here right now. In any case, after repeated questions, the initiators found that, in order to remain in the imagery of Mr Van Meenen, the cabinet and the murderers had no plans for a funeral. That is why we have considered it necessary to take on this ungrateful or perhaps grateful task. We invite everyone to help with this. The initiators would like to give Mr Beertema, whom we need here, the pleasure that Mr Van Meenen de SP and the SGP suspected of populism. His suggestion that we would suffer from it and perhaps even suffer from it is just not right. If you want to fight unnecessary bureaucracy and help teachers in this context, you may not be too populist soon. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point, or the second one: the importance of professionalisation. Mrs Westerveld asked if we could see with her that the origin of the idea of the register was based on a number of good substantive reasons. We fully agree with that. The legislator had the ideal in mind of a strong professional group which, in a professional way, monitors the quality of their professional activities and of their members. In short, the drive to establish a register was perfectly legitimate. It's understandable. That wish is still alive, and wide. The reasons were simply good. Only, for the legislator, for us, can you see that good reasons do not always lead to the desired result. Mrs van den Hul asked whether we shared the view that continuing training remains desirable as long as it is reasonably possible. After-training is indeed just part of the professional development of teachers. It is important not only for teachers to work on developing their profession and skills, but also for them to be understood and supervised. There is no difference of opinion between all of us. The question is only "too much," and that is the key question of how to organise it best. That's where it went wrong in our beliefs. The specific working environment of education has not been sufficiently taken into account, also due to arguments that seemed to be very valid in themselves. Think, for example, of the argument that other professions also have a register. Well, okay, good. But isn't that a decisive argument for wanting to do this in education or in the same way? In any case, much more attention should have been paid, for example, to a comparison between registers in education and registers in the care sector, since these are two different areas of activity, two different sectors. What are the differences between these two professions and what does that mean for the operation of a register? Mrs Westerveld rightly asked how we see our proposal in the light of strengthening the profession of teacher and the status of the profession. After the deletion of the register, how are we going to ensure that the importance of good qualified teachers is not forgotten? At this time of scarcity, too, we want qualified teachers to stand in front of the classroom, professionals who have time to keep up with their profession. Mr Van der Staaij also asked for this. How can you work in a positive way to strengthen the skills without this being a mandatory number that needs to be ticked off? The latter was the look that the teacher register was about to get into the discussion. Mr Van Meenen wanted to know whether professionalisation and the attractiveness of the profession remain sufficiently guaranteed and, if so, in what way. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators indicated that the inspection could or should even begin actively with the subject of professionalisation. The Education Council also recommended a much closer link with the daily teaching practice of competence maintenance. The inspection concluded in 2010 that there was still a world to gain in terms of carrying out the legal duty to promote staff competence. Please note that this immediately affects a need for correctness, the basis on which our education is organized. The honest story is, unfortunately, that the inspection itself was not particularly active in this for years. I do not put this as a reproach, but as a statement. You hardly heard from schools that they were questioned about this, let alone that recovery actions were requested. I have the impression that not so much has changed since 2010. It can really be much better in the eyes of the initiator. The possibilities are simply to work on professionalisation with the existing instruments, to monitor them and, if necessary, to give some guidance from the organisation. On the basis of the Constitution, there is even an important core of supervision here. It starts with the fact that we don't see the legal provisions as an empty check mark, but that we really ask schools how they work out the different obligations. What is the approach to lack of competence? That is a question to be asked at each inspection visit to the board or the management. Do the teachers have enough to say about professional content and didactics? How does the school view the relationship between teaching time and preparation time? To what extent are teachers supported to make use of the different facilities? Is it systematically guaranteed annually that teachers are working on their development? Mr. Chairman. The advantage of this approach is that it can be implemented at school level within the existing frameworks. There are simply rules, rules and articles for that. In this way, we also do justice to the specific situation of a school. For example, the composition of a school team depends on what requirements you want to make for further professionalisation as a board or board. Is there a lot of young staff or is it a lot of older people? It also matters what the school's priorities are and the characteristics of the student population. Where is professionalization needed? In this sense, there can be a certain amount of guidance, but at school level, from the board or the board. As I said, it also matters what the school's priorities are and the characteristics of the student population. Does the school perhaps see a great deal of importance and need in developing its own methods and a specific approach? Or is existing offers mainly used? These are questions that are not sufficiently answered by a teacher register and which are also difficult to capture in a teacher register.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u10	I have a question concerning Mr Bishop's fine speech. In preparation, of course, I was also looking at my own input. We did indeed ask questions about the origin of this register, because that did not come out of the sky at once. It was partly due to the wishes of the profession itself, precisely to combat that shortage of teachers and also to ensure that there was a proud profession there with status. Mr Bishop, of course, also talks about the impact: we can ask ourselves whether this effect is good. Now there are also a lot of questions from the Chamber about how we then ensure that teachers can talk and that they have sufficient time for development, because that is what teachers generally want. Mr Bishop then says: perhaps the inspection should ask for this in schools when visiting. But hasn't he also been the one who, in my opinion, together with Mr Rog, put forward a proposal in the House of Representatives to reduce that inspection? How do these two relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u11	That's a very good question. Mr Van Meenen, Mr Rog and I defended this proposal during our first parliamentary term and received support for it from our colleagues. That bill is based on the task of the inspection to ensure that the adequacy requirements are maintained. If you have defined these requirements well, you have guaranteed the basic quality of each school. Each school can then itself, in view of its own student population, possibilities, ambitions, and you name it all, on the basis of that sound foundation further shape education. One of these requirements is that the staff must be competent. That is where the task of inspection begins. During the time I was the director of a secondary school, I had a visit several times, but I have also been questioned about the state of affairs regarding the competence of the staff. I was on top of that myself, and I wanted that to be okay. It is a form of quality assurance. I thought that was a loss. That's how I experienced it as a director back then. That has also helped to see what you have to do as a government to ensure the quality, the basic quality that must be good everywhere, in all schools. So it's up to you to do what you have to do. The quality of education must therefore be guaranteed. The inspection will then have sufficient tools to ask a school director or a board of directors about how they have ensured the professionalisation of the staff, what choices they have made in it, why they have made those choices and how they do so. This is a further development, but this is in line with the requirement of quality which a school must meet. Mr Kwint will comment on the follow-up. What do we want to do now? That needs to be invested in the profession. You need to keep your fingers off that as a government. You might need to set some frameworks and possibly facilitate some things. It is fine if the profession chooses to do so, but from a legal point of view it stands that the supervision of competence and professionalisation is the responsibility of the school management, and that it is the responsibility of the inspection to keep basic supervision of this. How you organize that further... maybe they'll choose a register. It could be. But you then stripped them of the incriminating discussion that has been held on this subject, i.e. around this teacher's register.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u12	I can fully follow Mr Bishop's reply. It is also a very nice bridge to my second question. The register came here, of course, as a wish of the profession, but the profession made a condition: it must be a register of ours. I think a lot of things have gone wrong in that. It felt at some point not as a register of teachers themselves, but as something imposed by the government. The authors have already said a few things about this. I agree with that. What would then be the next step to make that profession even stronger, that it can stand up and that teachers in schools also have much more control over their own professionalisation? That seems like something we're looking for together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u13	Very good. Thank you for this question, because this is a constant field of tension. How do you realize a self-conscious target group that is focused on a professional attitude and that is not a performer of imposed tasks but has the space to do business that is necessary to do the good things for the purposes of their students' results? And then I think, but that is a very difficult path, that there may also be some cuts in legislation and regulations in other areas. It also requires some restraint from us as legislators, and a piece of self-discipline and self-control not to want to regulate everything. We have a fantastic education system, socially anchored and with responsibilities in society and not in politics and chambers. That's the spirit. But give confidence to those professionals and make sure that these frameworks are just good, so that the professional also picks that up and can even derive a piece of job joy from it. Why does anyone choose the position of a teacher, i.e. the position of a teacher or teacher? That's because he has a connection with young people in different age stages and wants to mean something to them. Well, give teachers the room to do that. Don't go protocoling that or closing it with all kinds of regulations. I have a great deal of faith in the professionalism of teachers at this point. So there is still a battle to be fought, but this initiative proposal does not provide for this. This is one specific point that we would like to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u14	I'd like to ask a question anyway. Coincidentally, or probably not entirely coincidentally, this morning I received an app from people from the profession, represented in the Teachers' Collection, who explicitly state the following. I'm gonna have to make it a little big on my phone, 'cause if I don't, it won't go without reading glasses. I quote: "The removal of the relevant provision means that we lose some of our control. In addition, it would mean that we would have a much longer way to go in developing the teacher register in the future." Then how do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u15	I've seen that, too. I was somewhat surprised by that e-mail, by that message. The same applies to Mr Kwint. We have had a great deal of contact with the sector in recent times and also in the run-up to this initiative proposal. If you look at the consultation on this initiative proposal, it is actually only embraced; let us say in 99% of the responses. In that sense, such a message just before the follow-up treatment is at least remarkable. It also indicates that within the sector itself, I say this in all honesty when I look at the sector, however, there is still a lot to be done. If you really want to be a self-conscious, professionalising sector, then there should also be sufficient internal coherence, internal organisation and coordination. I wonder a little where this is coming from now, when this has not become us in this way in the preliminary stage, so to speak. So this is a fair question, but I'm also looking at how to place it exactly. As far as "it gives us less control" is concerned, I do not think so. It is indeed up to the profession itself to give form and content to further professionalisation. If the profession itself believes that the existing laws and regulations on competence and professionalisation are sufficient, that is fine. Then a clear signal has been sent out, and you, as a legislator, take that into account. If the profession, the sector, says that the framework conditions are now in order, what that was the criticism of the Council of State about this bill, and that it is now up to the next step, namely to register and keep it centrally, then so could it. It's really just gonna be a while before you're really ready. I hope that this will be a sufficient response to your justified question. Otherwise Mr Kwint will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij asked how, in practice, we ensure that inspections focus only on checking the broad lines of school policy and not on the functioning of individual teachers. That is a valid point. If we want a strong professional group, we should not sit in the chair of professionals, nor should we sit in the chair of the driver or the school leader. The question whether or not Miss Janneke or Master Mark should have taken a course or whether the teaching assistant is not working properly is not up to inspection. The review of the monitoring has underlined that the inspection is limited to a system of quality management. Does the school have an adequate picture of the staff's development of competence and is it systematically working on it? According to the initiators, the research framework of the inspection also shows that attention is focused on the policy level. It is important to continue to distinguish the role of the school and its inspection in this respect. Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, those are the first two cubes we wanted to discuss. I would now ask you to give the floor to Mr Kwint, who will conclude our contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u18	I would like to thank Mr Bishop for his concise answer. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kwint. But maybe we should just clean the mic. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you, Madam President. As has already been announced by my colleague Bishop, I will deal with the following aspects: the shortage and register of teachers, the development of the profession and the development of the register. Then I will come to a conclusion. I regret that no other questions have been asked, because I had always wanted to end up with a block of varia. But I'm afraid that wasn't given to me. I hope that one of the speakers will force me to move on to a new initiative law. Mr. Chairman. The biggest problem in education at the moment has been the shortage of teachers for a long time. The corona crisis has certainly not reduced that problem. The workload for teachers is sky high. Despite the fact that such a teacher register was warned to be introduced at the time of a major shortage, it had to be done. That happened despite the advice of the Council of State, who said: first, make sure that we have that teacher shortage under control before you come up with such a register. As far as we are concerned, this has not happened sufficiently. Now the teachers' register is in the fridge. It's in a coma. It's dead and buried. Well, the different signs of that still vary a bit. I hope to be able to add a few more. In any case, the teacher register is not active, while the shortage of teachers has only increased. Among other things, Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Van den Hul asked for attention in the first term to be given to the relationship between the register and the deficit. We share the concerns about that deficit. We also share that there are bigger problems in schools at the moment, that deficit itself. Let's do that thoroughly first. Let us then leave to the professional group itself how they want to complete the professionalisation of their profession, with a clean slate and with control over their own professionalisation. To all those who are concerned about this, I would say: of course, this does not mean that teachers will not think about professionalisation until the government has dealt with the shortage of teachers. A teacher is a professional. I would like to remind you of the hustle and bustle for the application of the teachers' fairs, if you don't mind. It was on a weekday, at a time when most of us, at least I did, were long in bed. Most teachers just had to go back to work the next day. Yet they went so massively to apply for a teacher's scholarship that the website was offline. And that between 0am and 1:00am. As far as we are concerned, this not only says something about the difficult relationship the government has with ICT, but it also says something about the interest of the educational field in its own professionalisation. The fear that the permanent burial of this register of teachers would be at the expense of the desire for professionalisation seems to us to be totally unfounded. In fact, it was the misconception that the profession would need this register to get any interest in further training, which was the basis of this register. We would like to add something to that in the context of the written reply of the minister we were allowed to receive earlier, for which we express our gratitude. What surprised us is that the Minister actually seems to say in it that his 'icebox', to put it this way, is actually completely in conformity with the current law. We were also surprised that the intention was always that the register should be laid down by law, but that it would only be given a legal framework and that its implementation would be further for the profession. I agree with what Mr Bishop has just said. We'll make another choice. Because where the cabinet seems to say that it is "how" to the field of education, we want to go a step further. We also want to invest the 'what', the question of whether professionalisation is best served at all by this register, or whatever register, with the profession. If they then decide, in all their wisdom and professionalism, that the current register is the best possible option, then I do not rule out the possibility that Mr Bishop and I will frown our eyebrows and perhaps make a critical comment. In the end, however, we believe that this choice should be made with the profession rather than with politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u20	There are not many rulers or other people in trade-K who themselves drop the silence for an interruption. Mr Kwint will do that. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yeah, I can vouch for that. I myself sometimes sit in front of committee meetings and then I find out that silences do not always fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u22	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u23	Anyway... In fact, Mr Kwint says: if teachers can fill in how they want to do it, if they really are going to emancipate and if the result is that they have to register, then it fits within the law as it is now. He just might look weird. But if, on the one hand, we want the profession to emancipate, turn itself in and talk about what quality is and end with a register, then we make that dead law a little bit alive again and we can get going; great. But let's say that the profession is now asking Mr.Kwint what it wants, but it has suddenly been amended from the law and you're suddenly two years away. I just really don't understand the point. Why should you kill something that is dead and which can be filled out again according to the wishes of teachers, first really kill it and finally delete it, when it doesn't move anymore? It's in the fridge. Without the teachers saying they want it, it won't go out of the fridge. I'm just trying to get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you to Mr Peters for this question. Perhaps I dropped a silence so quickly because I know from the other side of the room how complicated it is sometimes to wait for a moment when you can place an interruption. We really do weigh this differently. Mr Peters actually says: just leave that dead letter in the law, who knows who needs it again and then you get back to work on it. Apart from what Mr Bishop said about the legislative process and how we should deal with laws, there is also a difference of opinion on the substance. We believe that the introduction of the teacher register really did not go in a way that does justice to the work of, for and by teachers. I believe that almost every speaker agrees on this. A clean slate means: really a clean slate. So not: we'll leave something behind for you, if you have a question about it yourself. It is now up to the profession that happens to be in the block that I am about to work on in order to come up with a proposal myself. If that is the result of the fact that I doubt very much that, given the design of this register, it is precisely in this way that it is intended to do so, a new law will indeed be introduced, so that it can be carefully weighed. But the other side is also true. At the moment when you would be burdening the profession with the development of a register of history as it already has, I think you would be burdened with the formation of a strong profession, but also simply with the formation of a strong representation from the teachers, with a legacy that you should not want to burden them with. It's precisely because of the respect for the professionalism of those teachers. For me, that is a fairly natural bridge to the block of professional development and the development of the register, precisely what Mr Peters asked for. Following the fall of the education cooperative on 1 January 2019, a new initiative was launched for the professional organisation of teachers, the Teachers' collective, but I do not want to leave the Professional Association of trainers MBO unnamed in this respect, which has been around for a long time. Initiatives in which teachers themselves have started to strengthen and increase their capacity as professionals. And initiatives which, as far as we are concerned, are hopeful about the ability of the profession to implement the way in which professionalisation should be designed. In response to Mr Van Meenen who asked, we fully recognise that these initiatives can have an important role in the further professionalisation of the profession. How to proceed, Mr Bertema asked, among other things. Well, at least no further with this teacher's register. And we will continue to invest in training, because I do not think that we are really there yet to have that robust representation of teachers. The teacher's move. It is precisely for this reason that we do not intend to become much more specific in the "how to proceed." Why? Because it is precisely a question that we want to invest with the teacher, not to make the same mistake as it was made with the introduction of the register, namely to point out from The Hague where the teacher has to go. The only thing we intend to do with this legislative proposal is, of course, to remove the animal-friendly species from the bears on the road that now hinders the progress of teachers who want to do so themselves. The teacher register, whether it's in a fridge, freezer, supply closet or coffin, is, as far as we're concerned, a stand in the way. Mr Van Meenen asked us to go further into why we now characterize that teacher register as a dark cloud above that field of education. First of all, I would like to refer him to all the things he himself said in the past about the teacher register. I think he'll find a nice anthology of the arguments I could use. In addition, however, Mr Bischoep referred to this for a short while ago, for example, at the internet consultation on the bill, there were a lot of reactions from which the educational field itself said: free us from this. Minister Slob has received positive and negative reviews from the educational field in recent years. But when he decided to put the teacher register in the fridge, so to speak, the teacher field was rarely so unanimous. Because they were very excited not to continue with the roll-out of the teacher register. That's not for nothing. The conditions in education have not become easy in many ways for teachers, in terms of workload and shortage, for example. It is not for nothing that PO in action talked about "the only right step" to pull the plug from this register for the time being. Then our belief is: let us not burden the profession with this monstrosity, this legacy. I do not think that we are doing the teachers any favours, nor are we helping to develop the initiatives that we regard as very hopeful. The risk is that we all live in great uncertainty, in anticipation of whom in the coming years the ministry of OCW will be responsible for the fact that in the future a regiment who has just launched initiatives towards the organization of the teachers will immediately reassert with the further implementation of the register. Under the guise of "well, you wanted a strong representation of the profession, there is that profession, have fun running the register." That is what we want to prevent. The professional organisations deserve our trust. They are now in the process of strengthening their own position. They do not deserve to be burdened with a negative legacy. As a simple citizen, you may also refuse a negative inheritance. We want to give this right to the teachers of the Netherlands. As a simple citizen, you may also refuse a negative inheritance. We want to give this right to the teachers of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u25	And again there is the natural silence. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u26	I can get used to this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u28	I have a very simple question for Mr. Kwint. That you do not think it should be done is clear to me, but do you agree that the teachers, an emancipated profession, should want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u29	What exactly is "it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u30	Emancipate and say 'we are about quality, we are going to fill it out and we are going to register and keep up with it', as happens in many other professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u31	I was afraid a lot of that "it" would get away. Of course I agree that if you take the teachers seriously as a professional profession, you can also hear the expectation that you are working on your own development, your professionalisation and keeping your knowledge up-to-date. Sure. Mr. Peters then makes the bridge to a register. I'm not convinced of that. It's possible. I really think that this should be invested with the profession itself, including the completion of that register, precisely because of what I said just now about the teacher's fair. We are already seeing the enthusiasm with which teachers embrace the possibility of continuing training massively. If it is useful, I suspect that it will be mainly for practical reasons to write down what someone has been updating knowledge over the years, then it can, if that is the outcome for which teachers argue. Then it is a question of whether you should do so and whether you should legally anchor it. I think that's when the ministry will have to talk to teachers about that. Of course, we agree on this professionalization. On the contrary, I do not want to interfere too much with how that will eventually be registered. That is precisely why we have tabled this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u32	I'm thinking. I don't think we're that far apart in what we actually want. I just think that if you don't have to do something, but you should want or really want to do it, that is, a strong professional group that emancipates and professionalises and that is about what that professionalism means and keeps up with it... I think we want to do that in principle Chamberwide. My only point is this. When we're ready, we're going to register it. There is already a legal framework. Then why would I have to stop it now, which would delay me two years? I'm just wondering. If it doesn't bother me when it's there... it won't bother me. It's good. You just said the teachers were cheering because it's in the fridge. Well, there it is, isn't it? I wonder if I'm not interfering with the trial by supporting this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u33	Then we shall return to Mr Peters' earlier question. His proposal is to leave it in the fridge. Everyone who has a fridge knows that at some point you have to take things out. If you don't, it's gonna stink. This register has been in the refrigerator for such a long time now that it might be wise to take it out, and not just from a hygienic point of view. If you leave it in the fridge, the problem is that you ignore the question of whether we should regulate it legally in this way. You're gonna talk to all of them about professionalization. Then when we've all agreed, we'll pull the old register out of the closet again. In our view, this does not do justice to the convinced desire of the educational field to shape it itself. If they want to shape that eventually, I suspect that the old lyrics can still be found on the internet. Again, I do not rule out the fact that Mr Bishop and I will then frown our eyebrows on the outcome, but our intrinsic motivation to submit this law is precisely to invest it with the profession. That is also an answer to another question that I had yet to answer. According to Mr Heerema, then educational spokesperson of the VVD, this bill would disturb a brooding chicken. Given the natural supporters of our two parties, you might think that Mr Bishop is better at home in agricultural sculptures than I am, but I come from a peasant village and I will take a brave attempt. A chicken nests on an egg; I know that. It's common for that to be an egg that laid that chicken itself. That is exactly the core of this metaphor and why we do not think this metaphor of the VVD goes up. This egg, the register, is not from the chicken, the profession. In that sense, it might be more appropriate to speak of a brooding penguin, as the males, who did not lay the eggs themselves, eventually take responsibility for breeding. This register does not belong to the profession, and in this sense we are not bothering the profession, but we are not bothering it. In this case, we think we are saddled with a task that she did not ask for. The chicken could concentrate more on breeding on the core task of forming a self-conscious profession. Let us not disturb that desirable and hopeful path by sounding attached to it the legacy of the teacher register. Mr Futselaar, too, we all miss him, of course, and he said it strikingly: by leaving the teacher register in the fridge, we would suggest that it is beautiful what the profession comes up with, but that it should fit in with what it already says. And we don't think that's with, from, for and by teachers. The VVD says that the register will have to be from, before and by the teacher. The whole reason we filed this law is that it wasn't. This teacher's register has never been, and as far as we're concerned, you'd better start from scratch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u34	The app I got earlier today, please don't let go of me. Also what was just said about the egg and the chicken and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u35	The penguin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u36	... the penguin is triggering me, too. What I finally understand from what is shared from the Teachers' collective is: just keep that egg. They want to be able to determine whether they make it into a fried egg, an omelet or an egg scrambled. I would like to refer to what Mr Peters said: there is no reason to remove the framework from the law that will still be necessary when it is decided by the profession what they want to do. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u37	This is exactly where this discussion is at the heart of the matter. We should keep a few articles so that after extensive contemplation the profession can add itself to what we have laid down in those articles. That is not exactly what "from, for and through" means for us in the core. I've also taken note of the message from the Teachers' Collective. If the Teachers' Collective can ultimately demonstrate in a convincing way that it chooses a similar form within its own professional group and within the group represented, it can do so. But then we have to go the orderly way. Then you shouldn't say: we're releasing you completely, but if you're not getting to b, we happen to have a law in place. As far as we are concerned, this is not a real freedom to think about professionalism. Then we will say: 'Really a clean slate.' That is where the deletion of this register comes in. Mr Van Meenen asked what is still in the law that stands if there is a register of, for and by teachers. Well, as far as we're concerned, the current register doesn't hold up with this bill. It's really gonna be a clean slate. However, this is not the case with the professional status, but I will come back to that in a moment. Mr Heerma said that it was feared that the legal basis for the Teachers' Collective would be lost if this initiative law were adopted. I can reassure him and at least the VVD: there is no legal basis for the Teachers' Collective now. So we're not taking them away either. I believe that we have both wholeheartedly supported the initiatives from the profession and from the Chamber, but there is no legal basis for that. So far, support has been provided through grants. After some time it will logically be considered from the Ministry whether it has succeeded in positioning it collectively as the professional association that everyone hopes for and for which there are really hopeful signals. Then you can ask the question: does that have to be guaranteed by law or not? I suspect that the Minister will be discussing this shortly. Then there is the professional status and the link with the teacher register, one of the hotter hangs from the first term of the Chamber. It is also an issue on which PvdA and GroenLinks have tabled an amendment. After the first term of the Chamber we received several e-mails on this subject from teachers, trade unions, educational organisations. I think it would be useful if I could first take you into the considerations of Mr Bishop and explain why we proposed what we wanted to propose. Build a little tension this close to lunch wouldn't hurt. We have talked on several occasions today about the clean slate with which we believe the profession should start. For us, a completely clean slate means removing the original obligations from the original law. So that includes a professional statute. Apart from that, there was also some uncertainty about the status of the statute. When would it be mandatory? What rights could teachers derive from this? And so there were some more questions. One teacher told me in preparation that good schools don't need it and that less good schools don't do so much with it. But we have listened carefully to your questions and concerns, and not only to the questions of the PvdA and GroenLinks, because also the PVV, D66 and the SP asked attention to them. The last batch, which I know fairly well, even mentioned the risk of the child throwing away the bath water. Of course, that can never be the intention. That is why we have put together and decided that maintaining a professional status does not prevent the formation of a professional organisation, which can decide on how to best design the professionalisation of teachers. It is therefore not contrary to the objective of this legislative proposal. In any case, we have decided to embrace the PvdA and GroenLinks amendments. The extent to which the Chamber does so remains to be seen. However, we would ask the Minister to clarify the status of the statute and the rights and obligations associated with it. We have become convinced of the potential added value of the professional status, but we are less convinced of its operation in today's practice. Finally. Mr Van der Staaij asked what other areas we could work together in order to free education from unnecessary rules. Before this debate, we just happened to be talking about statements of admissibility. I recall that we have worked with a majority of parties to prevent the crazy situation from having to prove every six months that the child is still chronically ill, even if you can assume that this is not possible after six months. We may be looking a little differently from our background at the possibility of unexpected cures, but in order to check that every six months now, I think the SGP went a little too far. In a more general sense, we have found each other in the fight against, for example, the extensive treatment plans that had to be written for students and that sometimes hung around the necks of teachers like a millstone. Moreover, should Mr Van der Staaij have any additional suggestions as to the rules which could still be removed from education, we would be pleased to hear them. I'll ask him for some patience. Writing an initiative law is a rather intensive process. In any case, until the whole law is completed, it is quite intense for two small groups. But we are open to suggestions. If there are no further questions, I have come to the end of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thanks to the initiators for embracing our amendment on maintaining the professional status. I do hope that support will also apply to the rest of the Chamber. I do have another question for Mr Kwint, which is somewhat in line with the question I asked Mr Bishop. By the way, he made a very nice plea about how this pride is actually already in the profession and how much teachers want to be professionalized. In his speech, Mr Kwint rightly referred to the number of teachers who did not go to bed because they wanted to apply at night. We also know that year after year more teachers apply for further professionalisation than is available for funding. Well, you could say that the introduction of a teacher register and a professional statute might be a stick behind the door for the Ministry to get things in order. I do not know if that is the case, but it might be the case, because together we set out a number of requirements that a teacher should respect. But the conditions must be created for this. The teachers' register will go away if the Chamber votes for it. But could there possibly be more to be done from the Chamber? Have the proposers considered together what more can be done from the Ministry to ensure that those teachers, who would like to be professionalised, have every opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u39	Yes, thank you. I do not know whether I agree with Mrs Westerveld that a statute and a register are a stick behind the door towards the Ministry. In my view, it was precisely at this time that we saw that, while there was a legal basis for a register, which stood in the refrigerator, but also for a professional status, there were still some problems in financing the retraining and professionalisation of teachers, despite the fact that there was already a professional status in force. I would just like to refer to the miserable round of the alleged under-exhaustment of the teacher's fair and later over-exhaustment of the teacher's fair. I therefore believe that it is primarily a task for ourselves and for all of us to ensure that, firstly, in the specific case of the teacher grant, a real solution is found, which also does justice to what we, with all our good intentions, accidentally saddled up education with. And secondly, to ensure that, in that constant attention to how you stimulate that education, we also give teachers time and space to shape it themselves. Everything we do here must remain a matter of concern and must also be something for which we must also create the conditions. I do not know whether a statute or a register will ultimately help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u40	I get that. This initiative law deletes the teacher register. The objective of the register was, of course, to ensure that there is sufficient scope for further training and perhaps to increase the status of the profession. It's all good ideas. Now that the register is finally deleted with this initiative law, I am looking for a way to still be able to help the profession, and of course in a way that comes from themselves. But the money and the conditions must, of course, come in part from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u41	I fully agree with that. That is why we are also pleased that the Chamber then supported the initiative to actively support, for example, the Teachers' Collective in the start-up phase. I think the Minister too is very much to be heard about this so far. I'm guessing he's gonna think about that for a while. At a time when that is getting even more cachet, more body, and with that you have also supported that professional formation, we will have to put our ears in order to hear how they think that we can better guarantee and protect that professionalisation. In the end, we are not going to do those courses, we are not going to give them, and that seems very sensible to me, but we must create the conditions in which the teacher, who is really intrinsically motivated to professionalize himself, can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you to Mr Bishop and Mr Kwint. We are now going to listen to the Minister, but only after we have been cleaned up for a while. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, it is special to be here as an advisor in this debate. My great appreciation towards Mr Kwint and Mr Bishop for the fact that they have taken up what is in the Chamber's toolbox, the knowledge of initiative, even though I have to tell you that I have great doubts about what they have taken up here. But I will, of course, say something about that later. I can tell you right now that the cabinet advises not to support this law, but that won't surprise you at all, I think. Madam President. I have already answered a large number of written questions in advance, even with the consent of the initiators, knowing that we are always running out of time. I will now really confine myself to the main line. I recognize and understand the entire history of the teacher register and the feelings it has unleashed very well. But still, I think it's okay to shake that off at some point. A lot's happened. Choices have been made, including by this cabinet. I submitted it to your Chamber and then I received the assent of the Chamber. But now, I think, it's good to try, apart from all that hecticness and the feelings that were there, just for a sec to see what we're actually doing here. Then the question is justified as to what problem we are solving. In my view, it is also justified to ask what problems we are causing at the time of the adoption of this law. The law and the register come from the Professional Teacher Act. He made three arrangements at the time. First of all, there has been a description of the profession of teacher. The initiators just keep it in place. They have not changed this in their own initiative law. The second thing the law did was record the teacher's professional space within the school in a professional statute. The scythe of the initiators was also about this part of the law. It entered into force in 2017. The schools were given a year to carry it out eventually. In the MBO I should have said that I am also here on behalf of my colleague, Mr Van Engelshoven, because we both cared about a professional statute since 2008, without it being in the law. From 2017 onwards, the schools will have to work with this. Mr Kwint asked me to tell you what the situation is. We can see that a large number of schools are implementing this. It allows the inspection to discuss this with the school during the visits. It is very important that in the school you simply fill out the rules of the teacher's professionalism. That was not the case in all schools. I very much welcome the fact that the initiators have now come back to this and have given a positive opinion on the amendment tabled by the Labour Party and the Green Left, so let me put it out of my mind. It would indeed be a huge impoverishment that within the school it is no longer clear what the position of the teacher is and what their professional space is. Thirdly, the Professional Teacher's Act provided for the possibility of introducing a compulsory teacher's register. The teachers' profession itself determines the concrete elaboration of the content and criteria for re-registration. That's literally recorded in the Wpo and the Wvo. You probably memorized the articles. Mr Bishop said that it was quite a bit special that this is now a dormant article. All kinds of medical terms have also been used, which I'm not going to repeat, although I've been in hospitals a lot lately and I've gotten a lot of them. One thing is clear: this part has not entered into force. Mr Bishop is charging this very heavily, because it would be wrong under state law. I can tell you that in the past cabinet period there have been several educational laws that have been approved by the SGP and the SP, as well as by other parties, including articles that did not enter into force until later. Sometimes very concrete and with a date, and sometimes without a date. I am thinking, for example, of the Act updating requirements. I am also thinking of the law that had to do with the Wpo and the Wvo when it comes to the BES. I am also thinking of the legislative proposal on the Participation Fund and the Replacement Fund. Articles of law also do not always enter into force directly and sometimes, under conditions, the law provides for them to enter into force at a later date. That is not very special in itself. The reason why that took a while at this time is justified by the fact that the profession had some other things on its plate because of the lack of teachers and everything that the schools had to do with. In the last year and a half we have also had to deal with corona, which also did not really offer much scope to take on all kinds of initiatives. But the fact that an article can enter into force at a later date, sometimes without a date, is nothing new in itself for education legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u44	The Minister is quite right to point out that phased introduction is nothing special. That is not what the objections are about either. However, it is remarkable that there is actually a problem of acceptance that is only becoming more visible. Already in the history of law, the Council of State and the Education Council have said: this is premature, you are not going to save this. The proposed introduction is also much slower than previously envisaged. Does the Minister now pretend that this is the normal course of action? There is something really going on here, not really a technical issue, but rather a very political discussion on the question: is this really so convenient, and should we really be doing so at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u45	From the origin of the law in which the teacher register is incorporated and the discussion about it, it has been clear from the outset, up to the legal texts, that the profession itself would give substance to the teacher register, if there were any. It was also clear that through an AMvB the person responsible would be in charge of the elaboration, both in the Second Chamber and in the Upper Chamber. So this was an orderly process that was and has been arranged in a very good way. It is true that there has been a lot of discussion about this, not only in politics, but also in the sector itself. That too, of course, has had its effects, including on progress, but it is without prejudice to the fact that it is not wrong under state law to have a provision in a law which will enter into force at a later date, in which it is perfectly clear who is first in the lead to implement it. If we leave aside the hassle of the past few years, that's just the legal situation we're dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u46	The situation the Minister is referring to is a kind of technical discussion about the right time of entry into force, but is this not an example that goes far beyond the technical discussion? I refer only to the Rog/Van Meenen motion on the whole position of the Education Cooperation. Wasn't the bill by the Council of State and the Education Council said at the time that it was premature and that you shouldn't regulate it like that in the law? Is this not proof that this criticism of the bill was justified, given the problems we are facing in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u47	The legal process took place in a previous cabinet period. This argument, of course, has been widely exchanged, including in relation to the opinion and criticism of the Council of State. At that time, a majority of the Chamber, and later also the Upper Chamber, finally agreed to implement this law in the manner laid down in the legal texts. We have all been able to see that we have had the discussion afterwards, and I myself, as a person in my responsibility, but again, that is without prejudice to the fact that this is just a law accepted by the Chamber that contains this possibility. I very much agree with Mr Bisschop and Mr Kwint, who have repeated this every time: the lead in bad Dutch................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then politics itself can make the weighing again: is this what we have meant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u48	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u49	Why does the Minister think that the Council of State was clearly in agreement with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u50	The Council of State, as part of the role of the Council of State, gave its assessment, its observations on the legislative proposal at that time. The Council of State has indeed reflected on this bill. That's his right. In the end, it's up to us to make our choices. I just indicated that if there's any criticism... The profession is not in the lead. The profession does not have the initiative to fill in the register. Then my answer through you, Madam President, is towards the Chamber: look at the legislative text. The profession is precisely in the legal text in the lead. When we remove these elements from the law, which is the aim of the initiative law, we deprive the profession of a possibility, at least in the short term, if they wish to continue to implement it. Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, talked to the profession about this myself. First of all, they have expressed their views in the public eye on the professional status. They'd really feel impoverished if that went away. I know from the Teachers' Collective but also from the FvOv, the Platform VVVO and the BVMBO that they would like to keep these provisions in the law to at a time for themselves... From the Teachers' Collection I know that they want to get started with the professional image, which they are already working on, and want to work on the professional standard, but also to have the opportunity to fill in the register at a time of their own choosing. When this law is passed, it can of course continue. But then we will be two years further before there is a legal basis for that. Then the weighting: do we think it is necessary to get that out of the law now, what purpose is served by it? Mr. Chairman. Then what are the consequences? In any case, it will then take more time to obtain the same kind of provisions in the law, so to speak. I don't suppose we'll suddenly put the initiative out of the profession, but into others. Then it's a repeat of what we've had in recent years. A second consequence. At the moment when we have made the choice to state very clearly that nothing will happen during this cabinet period, we have allowed teachers to use provisions in this law on a voluntary basis, for example when it comes to data transfer, etc. etc. There are currently 14,000 teachers who are self-employed in their portfolio and who also need this law to be able to do so. At the time this law is passed, this possibility is taken away from them, which I would really find impoverishment. Then we fall back to the situation that is currently the case for all teachers, namely that the competence file is then the way to which they must join. But the competence file is in the hands of the competent authority, of the school board, of those in charge of the school. And the teachers don't have the same direction. So at least for 14,000 teachers this means that they have lost their own direction and have to re-enter the competence file, which they are now relieved of, because they have their own voluntary portfolio. I'd say that's a really unwise thing to do. I wouldn't recommend doing that. Again, the provisions as they are now in the law do no harm to anyone. If they are activated, the profession itself is involved and the effects are presented to your Chamber, so that you can also express your opinion on them. Then what is the ultimate goal that you must accept by this law, with all the collateral damage that then arises? Perhaps one side damage, the professional status, is repaired by the amendment, but unfortunately on the other front things are not going well. I would regret that. Again, with all due respect for the commitment of the initiators and for the feelings surrounding the teacher register as it has arisen over the past few years, I could also share my own feelings with you, but that does not seem to me to be the appropriate time for our advice as a cabinet, considering all this, that we would not support this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u51	I wonder how the Minister prefers to see it further. It seems to me simply a fact: we have a teacher's register which a large part of the profession is highly dissatisfied with, a large part of which the Chamber says: should it have been introduced in this way? We can all read history back. What does the Minister see as the next steps that should be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u52	Some of the feelings were simply caused by the way in which the entire journey was carried out and the way in which it was intended to be arranged. I understand. I would almost say that we have not intervened for nothing either. But we are together as legislators and co-legislators: if you look for a sec at what is in the law, then you can only see that the profession itself ultimately determines the entry into force of the provisions on the register. That's what we meant by the law. The profession is now forming, on which I am very enthusiastic. I have already said it a few times: how the Teachers' Collective develops I would like to give it to many more members, because it is not yet self-evident to join them and is working on their content, is really as we intended. I am particularly grateful to Mr Van Meenen for bringing this to the attention of the cabinet from the Chamber at the time. I went overboard myself, and I am fully committed to that. I also gave them space, even in corona time, to take some more time to work this out. They do this excellently, also in the National Education Programme. If they ever say 'they don't have any concrete plans for 'we've had that professional image, we've had the professional standard, and now we're going to work with the target group, with the teachers themselves, to make sure it's really their property', why take that opportunity away from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u53	I know what the Minister's saying. Here we find ourselves in the somewhat uncomfortable situation that the idea of the teacher register naturally arose before the Teachers collective was there. I worked at the General Education Association at that time, so I got the origins of it and also what was changed then and how it went on then quite well from that side. The various unions now say: if it is introduced in this way, we do not need it. There is now another profession, the Teachers' Collective, of which I am also a big fan. We heard this morning that they say: perhaps we should leave the provision standing. I continue to find it a little uncomfortable that we seem to have ended up in a completely different situation at once, with the profession being defined in a different way at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u54	I have mentioned more names than just the Teachers' Collective, so let's not focus on that alone. That's a young group, but it's very busy. I also mentioned BVMBO and FvOv. They also feel no urge to fill that out already, but at least they have said that they support the possibility of keeping it up in the law. At least that is what they have said in our direction, and perhaps in yours. I do think there is a misunderstanding that we may be able to get out of here, namely that there is a feeling that there is already a full fill-in. No, at the moment there is no more than the provision in the law. The interpretation must come from the profession, so anyone who is concerned as a teacher can register with his profession. He can become a member, think along and decide what will eventually become the content. But apart from that: if we delete this provision now, 14,000 teachers will be in the cold, because they will lose their voluntary choice and direction over their portfolio. They are therefore relieved of the obligation to be attached to their competent authority through the competence file. I'd say that's a huge loss. That's why I'd say don't do it. But, of course, it's up to you to eventually weigh that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mrs Westerveld, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u56	It seems to me to be relevant matters that are being exchanged here and are being told by the Minister. If I understand correctly, he says: keep that hook and that provision, but we are waiting for the profession to work out exactly what the register should look like. It's still unclear to me who exactly is about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u57	We've established the professions with each other. The Teachers' Collective is a representation of the profession, but that is different from talking about labour market issues through the unions. They are really working on the educational content, as you know. The law is clear about that. In the end, a proposal will be put forward by them on how it should be completed. That's how we decided it. It's in the WPO and the WVO. I can still mention the articles: out of my mind that are 38c and 41c. But it also states that the Minister will eventually pass that on to the Chamber via an AMvB. Then you are again in a position to assess whether this has sufficient support in the sector to give your approval. In the end, that's up to you. Those guarantees, care and constitutional purity, as I say to Mr Bishop, have also been explicitly taken into account. Mr President, I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u58	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply in his role as advisor to this initiative legislative proposal. We're moving on to the second term of office. I see Mr Van Meenen rubbing his belly, but we have to work here before you can eat a sandwich. Mrs Westerveld, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u59	I see six minutes here, but I don't need one at all. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am very pleased that the authors have embraced Mr De Hoop's and myself's amendment. I think it is very good that we should at least retain the professional status. Furthermore, I listened with interest to the answers. I found the enthusiasm with which both proposers of the bill talked about teachers and the will of teachers to be professionalized very beautiful. I think it is very good to talk here in the Chamber regularly in this way about what education can do and what we should do to support teachers in their profession. I have also listened with interest to the Minister's reply. We are going to take a very good look at the votes later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you. Mr De Hoop of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is the second deadline, but for me it is the first time I have discussed this initiative. I would therefore like to take advantage of this situation to congratulate the two gentlemen on their initiative. I would also like to thank them for embracing the amendment tabled by the Labour Party and the Green Left. I believe that my predecessor, Mrs Van den Hul, and Mrs Westerveld, have made good considerations. I think it's good that you took over. Our greatest concern was for that, too. We have heard the answers to the question of professionalism, both of you, but also of the Minister. Like GroenLinks, we will include them in our consideration. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you. Mrs. Paul, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Bishop and Mr Kwint for all their efforts and also for their passionate speech. Unfortunately, the fact that I do not agree with them does not undermine that. Mr. Chairman. In many fields of work it is quite common that development and training of professionals is kept in a register or whatever the system may be. The aim is always to ensure and increase the quality, knowledge, skills and skills of the profession concerned. That is also the purpose of the teacher register. Due to all kinds of circumstances, to which reference has already been made, I shall not go into them further. I understand that. The register was not yet sufficiently developed. As a teacher, I'd probably get restless, too. What does this have to do with anything? What exactly am I supposed to do? What does it mean to me? And what happens if I don't get on that register? I get all these questions. But I don't understand why my colleagues here in the Chamber want to tear down the teachers' register completely from the law. According to the VVD, the current law offers ample scope to establish, in the long term, a register of, for and by teachers. By deleting it now, when the profession is ready and has found a good, workable alternative, we will miss the legal hook and lose unnecessary time. Given the original objective, quality assurance and quality improvement, this is a missed opportunity. So much for my contribution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you. Mr Beertema does not need a second term. I call Mr Van Meenen of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. My party really wants a teacher's register. My party very much wants a very strong profession. That's what we've been working for, and in particular for the Teachers' Collective. The Minister also mentioned this. We have also provided financial support et cetera et cetera. But a teacher's register must really be teacher's. I am not going to repeat the whole of the history here, although it might be interesting for some people to really get through it. But let's be honest: this teacher's register has never been teacher's, and it will not be that way either. That's too bad. Compare it with other professions, for example care. There's been a register there for years, the BIG register. Moreover, this has been preceded by a struggle; it took decades for the register to exist. But it really is from the profession and not from Minister De Jonge or I know who. It's just from the profession itself. That's what needs to happen here, too. Of course, that starts with a strong profession, which has to make its own choices. Ever since I had that app from the Teachers' Collective, I've been talking to the Teachers' Collective, because I really can't understand it. The profession has constantly opposed this form of teacher register, and now there is one app and it seems to be different. My impression is very clear that this is actually about the professional status. They fought very hard to keep it. Fortunately, the initiators also supported the amendment of the Labour Party and GroenLinks. I'm very happy about that, too. I have expressed my views on this for a long time, and I say quite frankly, because you are also in a coalition that has set this in motion, but I feel no longer bound by it. Besides, I have moving insight. I understand the description given by Mr Bishop in particular. I myself had the impression that I had given the final shot of mercy, so to speak, but that is not the case. I want us to be able to really start with a fresh start. I'm hopeful about that, too. I also hope that we may be able to do something with this in the formation; who can say? But that is not really necessary, because it really has to be the profession itself. But perhaps it is precisely in that formation that we can help the profession even more. In other words, and to make a long story short: I don't have to take anything into consideration to get it right. No, I'm just gonna vote for the Initiative Act. At least I will advise my group, but it always does what I say nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u66	Well, that's a lot of reassurance. Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u67	Madam President. I would like to thank the initiators for their passionate and thorough response and the Minister for his advice. To start with the exciting conclusion: in my group, too, I expect the advice to support this bill to fall into good shape. I have to say quite frankly, because you never know exactly how things are going in such a legislative process, and as a Member of Parliament I am still a little distant, because I am not an educational spokesperson. I must say that the latter is the case. I've actually gotten more and more excited about this bill. This was also due to the fact that at some point I pulled the book of Regulations in the Netherlands out of my bookcase and found this phrase: "The unnecessary continuation of a slightly floating state in which legal provisions are in place before their entry into force only leads to misunderstandings." That's exactly what we're seeing right now. A provision which has been adopted by the Lower House and the Upper House but which does not enter into force in the end is a request for problems. When the Minister says that phased introduction is taking place more often, I say: yes, good afternoon, of course, but something else is going on here. It's not a matter of technique that requires a step-by-step approach. That's normal; that happens a lot more often. Here there is a problem of acceptance, a political weighting: do we really want to do this in this way? Let that coincide exactly with what was warned about during the legal process and what was discussed: this is not ripe, this is premature and this is too much top-down. When we see later that things are going as critics, the Council of State, the Education Council and various groups in the Chamber said, only one conclusion fits: to withdraw properly, to stop. That's what this bill does. I just don't think the other thing is pure. This undermines the position of Parliament as co-legislator, because then you are actually going to make a little bit of political deliberation dependent on whether or not something is going to come into effect and at what point. That is never the intention of legislation. And then it really doesn't take two years for another wish to come. Then there has been enough thinking and then we really don't leave teachers in the cold with this bill. We are keeping them in the hold if we do not adopt this bill and leave such a top-down variant hanging over the market. Mr. Chairman. That is why I have become increasingly enthusiastic, but have also begun to prepare an amendment during this discussion. That was a little tricky, because I couldn't have the teacher spokesperson. I have therefore got the Foreign Affairs Assistant to work, but perhaps the initiators can respond to the suggestion in advance. I realize I'm surprising them with this. Is it really a good idea for this repealing bill to provide for its entry into force by royal decree? Would it not be wiser if this bill, if it were adopted, would simply come into force after it has been adopted by the House of Representatives and the First Chamber and if a different wording were chosen from the government at what point in time this repeal law would come into force? I would very much like to hear a response to that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I think we will see that amendment. Mr. Peters, CDA, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to see that we want an emancipated, strong professional group that is about its own quality, and that says: we really need to take up this professionalisation and we are going to put people in their power to do it ourselves. Still funny that you can come to such different outcomes with that same starting point, by logical reasoning. How are we supposed to weigh that? I thought it was a wonderful debate, but my position has not changed. We are not going to vote for this bill. We are going to vote in favour of the amendment. A profession that emancipates itself takes responsibility for its own quality and wants to decide for itself, sit at the helm itself and develop and monitor the quality itself. Together a little better every day, learning from and with each other: that's not so strange. Within the care and the legal profession, this has been common practice for many years. The Teachers collective also sees that way, although Mr. Van Meenen thinks they don't know what they're getting. Thank you to Mr Bishop and Mr Kwint for answering the questions. However, as my colleague Mr Kuik pointed out in the first period, more than a year ago, we will be voting against this initiative proposal. The answer to the questions did not change that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has indicated that he will not activate the provisions which the initiators wish to delete. I think we agree that this would be very unwise at the moment. No one really wants to. The Minister also made it clear in reply to his second term that he was not going to do so. He wants teachers to be in the lead. In my view, therefore, the deletion of that law will not be necessary. Then there are two provisions that we do not want to delete anyway, but there is an amendment by the Labour Party and the GroenLinks for that. Mr. Chairman. Apart from all emotions and practical objections, is it essential that competent and competent teachers themselves should be concerned with quality? We therefore call on the profession to take up the gauntlet again and to take meaningful steps to create a register, which is supported by the profession itself, in which powers and competences are maintained. As I understand it, what is now in the law does not stand in my way. I don't think it's gonna get in the way of anyone. We can go back to that as soon as the profession has done what we all want and whatever it wants. If the register were to come up with something other than what is now in the law, we would amend it by then. Saves a lot of time. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21 has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiators and the Minister for their clear reactions. For my group, this is the first time we have been able to say anything about this bill. So I think it is important to explain this very carefully. But I too will not take the time for this. Don't worry. JA21 supports the pursuit of a well-organised professional group of skilled teachers. The context of the school is the natural starting point for this. If bureaucratic obstacles stand in the way of this, they must be removed and, if necessary, removed from the law. The deletion of the teacher register and the register portal instead of suspending it provides clarity. Our group appreciates the initiative of Bishop and Kwint. With the removal of this cloud, education can put the promotion of competence back in the spotlight. The main thread of the Internet consultation is that schools and teachers should be given sufficient space. In the vast majority of reactions, the register is considered a paper tiger. The paper can go to jail so the tiger can hunt. The initiators express the hope that both schools and the inspection will work more actively with the competence file than in the past, in a way that suits their own organisation. On behalf of my group, I would like to underline that. Building skills and constantly promoting them deserves all the attention, and gladly in the form of files that matter and not in the form of forms that are going to eat dust. JA21 expects education to continue these efforts with full conviction, especially now that a legal stick is being removed in exchange for freedom and confidence in the schools themselves. The Advisory Section of the Council of State has issued a so-called blank opinion on the proposal for a law. My group cannot give a blank opinion, but JA21 can agree with the positive opinion, expressing the hope that even more unnecessary bureaucracy will be thrown out of education legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you. I'll suspend for five minutes and then we'll listen to the answers of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u73	I'll give the initiators the floor in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to my fellow Members for their comments. Thank you to the Minister for reflection. Thank you also for the interruptions that sometimes work very enlighteningly. We would like to consider a few more points. In my view, this is the first time that the provision on the teacher register has entered into force cum annexis. Of course, it is a legal figure that is more common, but it is surrounded by the necessary legal safeguards. That doesn't depend on how things turn out politically. In this respect, our opinion is very different from the Minister's opinion. It is more careful to follow the route in such a way that it can be a careful introduction, if desired by the profession. That's closely linked to that. Mr Van Meenen indicated that the discussion on this register was incredibly loaded. You can say you have to put that behind you. No, that's inextricably linked to that. If you really want to give a chance to make a fresh start, stop steering frameworks. Because if this remains in the law, it suggests at least that it will have to be something like that. But it can also be quite different, perhaps through the professional status that remains in the law. Maybe it should all be worked out through that route. The amendment tabled by the SGP, by Mr Van der Staaij, which we are still looking forward to, will be examined in depth as initiators. Let's wait for the lines. Mr. Chairman. This is it as far as I'm concerned. These were the points I wanted to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u75	Then we'll just wait a minute. Mr Kwint then took the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all colleagues for the questions and the second-term input. In our opinion, the core is and remains that when you want to be something of, for and by the teachers, you give confidence to the profession to choose a form for that. Because of past mistakes, we place the profession unnecessarily with an inheritance and a backpack that it has not asked for. For years, for example, the Education Council has advised to adapt the structure, the way in which it has been designed, and to be more consistent with the maintenance of competence that is already common. A few times several colleagues referred to the BIG register. As Mr Van Meenen rightly said, that register did come from the sector itself. If I'm looking a little closer to the schoolhouse: the school leaders' register that now exists was created by a collective agreement between employers and employees. They have decided together to create a register. They didn't need a legislator to do that. We believe that this is a good way forward, but above all a way that we do not think we should stand in the way of it. That is a path that education itself has to go. I can easily imagine that a way can still be found for those 14,000 teachers, if they would appreciate staying on their own record, to technically facilitate it from the government. I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you. I would like to thank the initiators for defending their initiative proposal. I thank the Minister for his advice on the same bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u78	We are going to vote on this next Tuesday. Thanks again.
