ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill 35654, Amendment of the Temporary Election Law covid-19 for the election of the members of the Lower House in 2021, the Temporary Election Act covid-19. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Special times call for special measures. This is true not only of the unrest we are currently seeing in all kinds of cities in our country, but also of our legislative processes and our elections. High urgency calls for a quick decision. That is why my group understands that proposals are being made for the forthcoming Lower House elections to ensure, in these circumstances too, as far as possible that citizens can exercise their right to vote in the safest possible conditions. For this reason, I am right to say that we support this law and limit ourselves to one point in this debate, namely the age limit of 70 years for letter votes. My group is not opposed in advance to facilitating letter voting. We understand that it is now being introduced primarily as an emergency measure and that further debate is needed before we could decide to introduce it definitively as a renewal in our democratic system, of course in line with the report of the State Committee. We would like to have that debate later and ask the Minister today what plans she has for the opinion of the State Committee on Parliamentary System to go on this matter, to leave it to it or to have it developed. Does it really see this proposal today simply as a one-off emergency solution or as a pilot requiring further investigation and reflection because this measure could contribute to political involvement? My group does have serious questions about the definition. Here too, we understand the pragmatic balance, namely that the group of 70-year-olds is among the most vulnerable and is well organized. The government knows who's 70-plus and who's not. For other groups that is much more difficult, because who exactly is vulnerable? Can the government distinguish between people? And so on. On the other hand, it is not possible, at this time, to make letter votes possible for everyone, as we have understood from the treatment in the Lower House. We understand that, but it is also sanding, because as objective as this limit could be at group level, it is so subjective at individual level. It's not like all 70-plussers are vulnerable. It's not like all 70 miners aren't. On the contrary. There too there are groups with sometimes greatly increased vulnerability. Not for nothing is our vaccination strategy much more nuanced than this coarse mechanism. And precisely because the individual differences are likely to be greater than the differences between the groups, this arbitrary age limit is, in our view, fundamentally debatable. The arrangements for using voting rights are substantially extended for one group of citizens and not for the other group. This is based on the fundamental principle that all citizens must have an equal chance to vote. Now, of course, we are well aware that there is already an age limit at which voting rights are granted at all, namely 18. We can discuss that too. I'd love to. But we are talking about the limit of whether or not to vote. Now it's about an incentive arrangement that makes it easier for some voters than others. If I describe it in this way, you will feel the painful parallel with countries where everyone can vote, but that for one group of citizens is really made easier than for the other. This creates discriminatory effects. A clear example, even from a country like the United States: all its voting restrictions are formally non-discriminatory, in reality they affect different groups more or less, such as in states where a gun licence is a valid ID and not a college card. Such choices, even if objective, do something about the effects of elections and citizens' rights. For the sake of clarity, we are not saying that this proposal leads directly to discrimination. We say, however, that a distinction as is made here cannot be pragmatic in our view. It is uncomfortable that it comes close to the border of constitutional principles. We will have to discuss this more comprehensively and in principle. If we accept this bill today on pragmatic grounds, and my group is doing so, then we must, as far as we are concerned, follow it through more fundamental reflection and reflection. In our view, such a distinction between citizens cannot be made on the basis of only general and global group risks. We should either objectify it much more individually, as in the case of medically established conditions, which in turn is difficult because doctors are not allowed to give an explanation, or we should make it possible for all citizens. A final arbitrary age limit can really only be defended as an emergency measure as far as we are concerned. Our question is whether the Minister is prepared to link this more fundamental and fundamental reflection with the evaluation of these elections, which will undoubtedly take place, so that this evaluation and reflection can become a building block in the further discussion on the improvements to our democratic system. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u5	I understand from Mr Ganzevoort that he said, referring to the debate in the House of Representatives, that it would be virtually impossible to allow letter votes for all voters. I would like to know from Mr Ganzevoort how he himself deduced that this is indeed the case. I have asked further questions about this. They were answered last Friday. The Minister said it would take 25 days. I conclude from this that it is possible to start on 10 February. That's my first question. My second question: if it is practical, but perhaps not in the short term, why is the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance not in favour of postponing the elections in order to make it possible for everyone to vote in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u6	These are two questions. The first: we have seen an extensive debate in the Lower House. We have also seen the written questions. You could conclude from that that it is indeed possible in a number of ways. We have been impressed by the logistical problems that are being addressed in all kinds of ways. Of course, it is not just about printing the voting cards, but about the whole process around them. We are not the ones who have to plan that process. We'll check it out. We understand when the Minister says that logistics is not feasible. If you can, it's nice as far as we're concerned. If we can't do it, we'll get it. Mr Nicolaï's second question was whether we should postpone the whole election. I think that's a bit of the horse behind the cart. The principle we are assuming, at least at the moment, is that the elections will take place in March. That's the primary goal we're focusing on. All processes are focused on this. If that were not feasible, we could, of course, talk about postponement. We'll find out if that proposal comes up. There isn't now. I would find it a little strange to postpone it because the lettering is not arranged. The vote in the letter is the emergency measure, not the basis at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u7	But if I have listened carefully, Mr Ganzevoort considers it very doubtful whether the choice is sustainable from one and the other is not. If the only sustainable choice was to open it up to everyone, that could be a reason to postpone the elections. Our group is absolutely not in favour of postponing elections, but we are in favour of fair and transparent elections. That's one. Two. How much creativity do we have here in the Netherlands? This discussion is already taking place... I remember standing here at a much earlier stage, and D66 in particular said, "Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Well, now we have him and we have no time at all. That's one. Two. If you look at America and see how many people are in halls together to make sure that the democratic process is progressing... I think it's all kind of weak here. I do not have the idea at all that people have really looked at how we can manage logistics in order to make that letter vote possible for everyone. I would like Mr Ganzevoort's reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u8	I get that. The risk with this question is that we will be sitting very much on the seat of the House of Representatives. We have a duty in this Chamber to look in particular at the fundamental aspects, which is why I stress this point. We can understand very well if, under the pressure of circumstances, we determine its special circumstances: we do have questions about this, but for this time, as an emergency measure, perhaps it should be possible. But then the question of principle has to be addressed. That is an important point for us. It can't be that you're structuralally putting the principles under pressure because of the pragmatism. That in very special circumstances, and that's what this is, happens once, I get that. The primary consideration of how the process should be organized and what cannot be done, I honestly find a real consideration for the House of Representatives and not primarily a consideration for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u9	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u10	I agree on what belongs in the Second and First Chambers, but in the First Chamber we should at least assess the rule of law, regularity and feasibility. If we were to conclude that from the point of view of the principle of equality, it is not possible to maintain that you are setting the limit at 70-plus-0, then that is something we have to judge. If you, if your group were to come to the conclusion that that is indeed not right, then you must say: the 70-year-olds are no longer. Or, and that seems much more sensible to me, you have to say: then we have to go to the point that letter voting is possible for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u11	I think that goes too far. Mr Nicolaï has heard that I am placing the emphasis on this fundamental point. That's what this is supposed to be about. We believe that we should have a fundamental discussion about this letter vote. It's not like we're saying we need to take care of it right now for everyone. This would just be a pilot. We really need to have the conversation in which we make those considerations. If we are to take an emergency measure now, we are talking about feasibility and not everything is equally feasible in the very short term, then that fundamental question remains, and I stress this here in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr Ganzevoort spoke of a pragmatic choice. I agree with him. I also agree with him that after this debate there should be a fundamental debate on the desirability of voting in letters. My question to Mr Ganzevoort is as follows. The fundamental debate must of course take into account the equality that should apply to all voters, but also the care of the electoral process. The Election Council has pointed out that in this case a weighting is being made between the health interests on the one hand and the care of the electoral process on the other. Then, in this case, it is an emergency measure, and that is the pragmatic proposal that is now before us. Does Mr Ganzevoord agree with me that this fundamental debate, which I am also in favour of, must also take account of the care of the electoral process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u14	My last answer to Mr Nicolaï is precisely that. We have not yet said that we are necessarily in favour of lettering. We're all in favour of a good reconnaissance. But that requires something more than saying: well, if we have an extra month, we can arrange it for everyone. As far as the pragmatic solution is concerned, we do not say that this will lead to inequality for citizens in principle. We'll tell him it's sanding. I did not say that it is contrary to the rule of law. It's rubbing it. So we need to look at this in a good way and in principle. But in that debate about voting in letters and their desirability, we are talking about more than just medical matters. It is also about the process, about equality and so on, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you. The members of the PvdA Group thank the government for the answers to the questions asked. We appreciate the government's commitment to be able to vote safely in corona time without compromising the right to vote. We also appreciate the efforts to minimise the impact of these special measures on turnout, but we still have a few questions. Even in times of a health crisis, or perhaps more precisely in times of a major crisis, we believe that the continuation of the democratic process is very important. That is why we are in favour of this proposal. But the elections on 17 March must be justified. However good the preparations for this particular electoral process are, the pandemic and the effects of the measures taken cannot be predicted with certainty. In response to one of our questions, the government says that before the start of the recess, 12 February, it will inform the House of Representatives about the state of preparations, including the current situation surrounding the coronavirus and the consequences it may have for the elections on 17 March. In the note on the report, the government says that it will also inform this Chamber. That is obvious, because if the elections were to be postponed, the decision would require the consent of this Chamber, which would then have to be well informed, by means of a special law. In answering the questions, however, the government did not answer our question as to the circumstances under which it would introduce such a law. I would like a reply from the Minister to this question. In other words, how bad should the situation be to decide not to allow the elections to continue? The government must have some sort of playbook for that, right? What, according to the Minister, are the criteria on which it decides whether or not to proceed with a proposal to postpone elections? Is there a deadline for postponing the elections for organisational, logistical or other reasons? As the pandemic is difficult to predict, this decision may also be taken a few days before 17 March. If that decision were to fall in the period after 12 February, then, I may assume, the House of Representatives is called back to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u17	I would also like to ask Mr Koole, who is asking the Minister a fair question: are there circumstances in which it would be conceivable for the Labour Party to postpone the elections? Or are you saying that we have to make sure that the elections actually go ahead at all costs? Do you have certain criteria or scenarios in mind in this regard, which would be conceivable at all? As far as we are concerned, the elections really must go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u18	Our party also wants the elections to continue, but we must be able to do it carefully, as I said earlier. It is always a consideration: how serious is the pandemic at the time of the elections? It will have to be considered. Hopefully, with these additional proposals contained in this proposal, we will be able to vote safely. That is why we are also in favour of this proposal. But if the Minister were to say, on the basis of certain criteria, which I am asking her for, that it could no longer be safe, it would not be impossible for elections to be postponed. One of the most important criteria is, of course, public health for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u19	People's health is a very broad concept, but my question was under what conditions the Labour Party would say that we really should not continue with the elections. Or do you say that we are on a principle; the elections go on at all costs, and with this law in hand, at least we have sufficient measures to ensure that they are carried out carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u20	That is precisely the question I am asking: does the government have information that we as a group or as a Chamber do not have? So I ask the government what criteria are being applied. I am not asking the government to decide whether or not the elections are taking place right now. That's not the point. The question is what criteria are being used if it is perhaps raised unexpectedly. We don't have that information, so I can't tell if it's going to happen or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u22	But the Labour Party is actually saying that under certain circumstances it is conceivable that the elections should not continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u23	That is what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr Koole and I are on the same committee. I remember that months ago the question was raised as to whether the elections could continue in the light of the corona measures. It was Mr Koole who brought it up at the time: it is not just about the day of the elections, but also about the period before that; it must be a good campaign. My question to Mr Koole is: do you now have the idea that we have come to the point that you can no longer speak of 'careful campaigning', as you imagined when you asked the questions I am referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u25	Campaigning is, of course, necessary in the case of elections. Under these circumstances, that will be different from normal elections. So careful campaigning is not the same as under normal circumstances, but all parties should be able to transmit their information to the electorate during the period preceding the elections. The measures contained in this bill do not, in principle, make this impossible. The bill does not specifically envisage this. But I assume that parties can still campaign through all kinds of channels, especially digital channels in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u26	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. A second issue, which is related to the first, concerns the possible effects of the corona epidemic on the turnout at the elections. All kinds of additional measures have been taken to promote turnout, from letter votes for people aged 70 and over, we have just talked about this and the extension of the number of powers from two to three, to detailed measures to make voting in the voting room coronaproof. We wholeheartedly support these measures. Letter votes and the increase in the number of proxies were not yet discussed in the reclassification elections on 18 November. In that election, 18% of non-voters indicated, according to research agency Ipsos, that they did not vote because of corona or that corona played a role in choosing not to vote. This played a role especially in the elderly. The new possibility of letter votes for people aged 70 or over will hopefully bring that percentage back significantly, although the category of older people in the Ipsos study concerned the group aged 55 or over. But also among the group non-voters between 35 and 54 years old indicated 8% not to vote because of corona. Precisely the group between 35 and 70 years of age, which includes vulnerable people, they are not only vulnerable people, but there are also vulnerable people in that group, who should be made more aware of the possibility of voting by proxy. Does the Minister intend to do so and, if so, in what way? Through polls, the Minister will closely monitor the willingness to vote, the PvdA Group asks. We believe that this could be taken into account in a possible decision to postpone elections. Such information is therefore important for Parliament's consideration. Is the government prepared to systematically examine, from the beginning of February, the willingness of the people to vote, with explicit reference to the reason why they should not vote? More generally, what is the government going to do to move potential non-voters to the ballot box? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few informative questions. In the reply, the government writes on page 6: "The counting of the letter votes can begin on Wednesday 17 March at 7.30 a.m.." On the other hand, on page 8 it says: "The letter votes and the votes cast on Monday 15 and Tuesday 16 March will all be counted in public on Wednesday 17 March." Voters may be present when counting the votes. What time do voters who want to be present have to go to the count room, I ask the Minister. Is there a limit to the number of people who may be present at the count? Can people be refused? Can the Minister further indicate whether, and if so how, the number of voting rooms is affected by the corona measures? Are there enough voters in every municipality? What measures does the Minister see to help municipalities that are struggling to find sufficient members of the polling stations? And what about the number of voters? Are there enough of that? For example, can counting be continued the next day if necessary with a fresh team of polling counters? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group sincerely hopes that the elections can continue on 17 March, but only if this can be justified. It therefore appreciates the commitment of the government and of all the people at local level who are working hard to make this possible. But again, only if it's justified. We would like to hear the answers to the questions we have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Raven of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u29	I had a question about the power of attorney votes. Don't you see the risk that there might be an increase in the recruitment of votes if you go from two to three? That's one. Wouldn't people be able to take advantage of the possibility of voting by picking up these letters from 70-year-olds? Do you see that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u30	The power of attorney is always a certain risk, as the Election Council has pointed out. That's why the number has ever been reduced to two. In this proposal, it has been brought from two to three because of the special circumstances in order to allow people who do not want to vote or who can go to the polling room to vote. That possibility has been slightly increased. As we have just seen in the debate on voting by letter for 70-year-olds and older people, this is indeed a balance between health interests on the one hand and the care of the electoral process on the other. In that regard, I understand the one-off extension, for this particular election, from two to three power of attorney votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u31	Wouldn't it be a good thing if we got some more guarantees, especially among the letter voters, how to prevent the recruitment of votes? 'Cause you don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u32	The letter voices are just done at home by people aged 70 and over. They have to fill that out. The Minister has already explained this in detail in the answer to the questions. There's a carefully supervised process in there. The Election Board points out that the risk of letter votes lies between the moment the person makes the letter vote on the bus and the arrival in the polling room. You don't really see that. I understand that agreements have been made with PostNL to guide that well, but you can't see it. That's a certain risk. That's the risk the Election Council points out. It weighs against health interests. I understand you're doing that in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mr Raven, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u34	With regard to the latter, the risk that the letter will be lost somewhere along the way at the post office is indeed there. Could you not ensure a certain spread of risks by, for example, inserting a square in it and saying that someone who votes by letter must also report somewhere that he is going to vote by letter? Then you have control of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u36	I think these are more questions that you should ask the Minister later, but the letter card obviously has a voting pass, a special pass for letter voters. It is being prepared in a very good way. Eventually it will also be checked if it is used once and not several times. This process is therefore surrounded by many guarantees. But I'm sure the Minister knows more about that and I'm sure he can say exactly that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u37	I think it is extremely good that the Minister is investigating all kinds of scenarios. That's what you can expect from a minister in crisis time. So that also the scenario of not continuing the elections is being examined by the Minister: fine! However, I do taste lightly between the contribution of the PvdA in the Lower House and those in the Upper House, because your party mate in the Lower House, Attje Kuik, said: "There can be no delay. It is precisely in times of crisis that I quote her here, 'voters must have the opportunity to make their voices heard'. That was the contribution of the PvdA to the debate on this law. I can at least taste a more nuanced contribution from your group in the House of Representatives. Sorry, of course I do not mean you, Mr President, because you are always nuanced, but of course I mean Mr Koole. I can at least taste a more nuanced contribution from Mr Koole, or more the opening up to possible postponements. In that sense, I understand my neighbor's question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u38	There's no difference. The stakes are that we hope that the elections will continue. The measures contained in this bill are precisely designed to allow them to continue. The Minister himself wrote earlier, in a letter from last May, that it cannot be ruled out that there are circumstances in which it must be decided not to allow the elections to continue. My question to the Minister is: on what criteria do you decide? What are these criteria? We are not arguing for the rejection of the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. "Try to think of it as crazy." With this slogan by Loesje, I will begin every debate on the COOVID-19 measures. I do that because this government recognizes a pattern. What could have been foreseen has repeatedly led to emergency measures and emergency legislation. Two weeks ago, in the debate on the mandatory PCR test for travellers to the Netherlands, I asked the Minister of Justice and Security why as a measure no mandatory quarantine is imposed, according to German example. "Not to be implemented," was the answer, because Germany had a different constitutional system. In the meantime, since last week, we know that the cabinet will come up with a proposal for mandatory quarantine. This is just one of many examples in the pattern where the government does not want to, or do not want to, be wrapped in arguments of not being able. In this Chamber next week, or at least before 9 February, we will have to deal with the extension law for curfew. I haven't heard the Minister in the Lower House about that, but I really have to. That pattern is also the reason why I want to ask you today about voting by letter. There are signs that more and more people are considering not voting out of fear of their health. Others referred to this as well. I also hear these sounds more and more in my own environment. We have to take this very seriously, especially if the date of the elections may fall in the middle of a third wave and the health situation will deteriorate further. The VNG pointed that out as well. After all, we should not measure this in relation to the situation now, but to the expected situation in March, possibly in the middle of a third wave. The number of people who prefer health to vote will only increase. The fact that we are not doing enough or prepared to do so is impossible for the SP. The measures proposed now do not seem to be sufficient. We shouldn't be surprised. It is our duty to ensure that anyone who can and wants to vote can do so, in a way that is safe. We don't want to turn this election into a super-spreader. I have heard the stories of Mr Kox, who was an observer in Georgia. We don't want that. The Minister stated in the response to questions put by the SP on letters: "Because the secret of voting and the freedom to vote cannot be guaranteed in the same way as in the polling room, there must be an urgent need to allow for letter votes for everyone. This urgent need is lacking in the conviction of the government." We're a little further. The country is in a full lockdown. There's a curfew. There are no airplanes. Fundamental rights are restricted. One visitor per 24 hours is allowed. I therefore ask the Minister once again whether she is persisting in her statement that there is no urgent reason to allow letter votes for perhaps not everyone, but for a larger group. How much more serious must the situation become before the government realizes that this statement is unsustainable, given the expected health situation in March? What, in the opinion of the government, would be an urgent necessity? Every day we lose in the preparation of letter votes, one is too much. My appeal to the Minister is therefore to begin today with the preparation to allow voting by letter for possibly more groups, in case the need for a man or woman arises. This could make the difference between voting or not voting. We must then be prepared and not say: well, now we are too late with the preparations. So start preparations today. There is no time to lose, because the voters must ultimately determine the outcome of the Lower House elections on 17 March, not COOVID-19. What are we gonna do with people who have to go into quarantine, especially now that the government is working on a quarantine obligation? Does quarantine mean you can't vote? Or is provision made for this, such as special voting streets? If there's a quarantine obligation, we need to think about it now. The polls could also be used for people who are not in quarantine, but who have complaints, want to vote, do not want to tax the system and do not want to endanger others. This point is only becoming more urgent now that the government is indeed working on the quarantine obligation. Surely we cannot deny the right to vote for people who are or are not required to be quarantined or have complaints? I would like a response from the Minister on this point and for this group. Why choose so few early voting locations, with one per municipality minimum? Surely we want early votes to be as inviting as possible, precisely in order to achieve spread over time? I would like to hear from the Minister whether she agrees with me that we do not want the earliest stains because of the limited availability in municipalities that may later opt for one location. That's the opposite of what we want. I say this again in science and the expectation that the health situation in March will be even more worrying than it is now if we listen to the experts. Will the Minister promise that the number of earliest stains can be increased, of course in consultation with the municipalities? Mr. Chairman. This brings to my last point, which I would like to highlight once again. That is the financing of the additional measures. Many corona measures are already being passed on to municipalities in the implementation of this crisis. This leads to major problems, particularly financial ones. It is inconceivable for the SP that municipalities themselves bear the cost of the additional measures in these elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u41	I see you're almost done. Finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u42	A few more sentences, Mr. Chairman. The municipalities are no longer financially the water to the lips, but to the nose. The elections, which are likely to take place in the middle of the third wave of this pandemic, call for the government to do everything in its power to ensure that voters vote safely. Financial deficits in municipalities at present should not be a limiting factor. I am counting on the Minister to agree with me and to say that the government will bear the cost to municipalities of additional measures to keep the elections safe during this pandemic. Please clarify the municipalities in advance. This will only benefit the implementation. On this last point, of course, I await the Minister's response, but I do not rule out a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr. Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u44	I have a question for Mr Janssen van de SP. I have just put it to Mr Koole. I hear you say that the measures now being taken are totally inadequate. I didn't hear the SP say anything about whether or not to let the elections go on. Do you agree with me that the elections absolutely must continue, and that everything must be done to keep them going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u45	I think I have just argued this by asking the Minister on a number of points. Why shouldn't we start preparing to make sure that's not what this is about? This can be done, for example, by voting in favour of other groups, if possible, if this is possible safely. Suppose, in four weeks, there will be a quarantine obligation, and viruses are grabbing around in such a way that half the Netherlands is required to be quarantined. We shouldn't want the impossible. We can say here that we have to do everything we can with each other. Hence my question not to let us be surprised and start with all the preparations that we can make, especially in the scenario 'try to think of it as crazy'. I cannot rule out, and nobody can, that on 17 March there is a situation which makes it absolutely impossible to hold elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u46	It is precisely the sharpness that matters to me. I hear Mr Janssen saying that the measures are totally inadequate. Would you say that the elections should continue, despite the fact that you consider the measures to be insufficient, and even though those measures do not change?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u47	I believe that there should be additional measures, because it must be possible to do so safely. I asked the Minister to say that these additional measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr. Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u49	If Mr Janssen does not get that commitment from the Minister, does the SP say that the elections should not go through?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u50	I cannot judge the situation on 17 March. No one here can. We cannot, in a manner of speaking, look forward two weeks, not even a week ahead, not a day ahead, so let alone more than a month and a half. I think we should do everything we can to ensure that the elections continue. We must leave nothing to start the preparations now to make sure that we can do it later. I can't say in advance whether it's justified that the elections should go ahead, but I do think you should have done everything you can. I would find it a real shame if we were to have to cancel the elections when we have missed the opportunity to take measures which would have enabled us to do so. That's what I'm pointing out right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u51	I am very pleased with Mr Janssen's last words. That is our position, too, but I would like to add my voice to his argument that money should go to the municipalities. Is it just a question of money or are you saying with our group that it is really about the implementation of covid measures and that we need to have much more central direction, not only money but also help from ministries, working groups or whatever to encourage it to go the right way? Especially looking forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u52	Not so much working groups, dinner pensants, thinking sessions and what I know, but just practical help as municipalities need to make sure that the elections are organized properly. What I do not want is that municipalities, for example, only set up one early voting location because of a financial barrier, because they think it is too much on the budget. The same applies to other measures. That's all I care about. All the help you need. I do not think that where the task lies with the municipalities, we should take it over. Central isn't always better, I'd like to say. But with help and early detection and assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr Janssen talks about starting preparations now. Now the bill before us is the result of long-established preparations. In addition to what is stated in the law itself, there are also many implementing measures. What measures, according to Mr Janssen, should be launched which have not yet started? Are they prohibitive if they are started before the elections continue? My second question is about the money. As we have seen in the written rounds and as has already been said in the House of Representatives, additional money is already being paid out. Normally Lower House elections cost 45 million or something in that order of magnitude I look at the minister and now about 50 to 55 million is added because of these special circumstances, including to finance the municipalities extra. Is that not enough, according to Mr Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u54	That question is for the municipalities. If the municipalities say "we're gonna get along just fine" then the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u55	Does Mr Janssen have any indication that municipalities find this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u56	I have evidence that many municipalities are in financial trouble. An election allowance may also be used for other purposes. Suppose there are municipalities that say, "We got this, but we want to organize more, because the situation is more serious than we thought. We were expecting one early vote and budgeted for it, but we need three, four or five. The finances are not sufficient for this." Can they knock on the door for compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mr Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u58	But these additional funds, in the order of 50 or 55 million, which are available for this process, can be used by local authorities in view of the additional costs involved in organising these elections, I understand. Mr Janssen is now on a broader scale. The financial position of municipalities is generally vulnerable and sometimes the finances are too little, I agree with him. But for this very purpose, extra money has been allocated. What signals has Mr Janssen received that municipalities would not do anything on this point because of the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u59	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u60	Among other things, the UNG's call to look at the situation as we expect it to be in March, and not now. Suppose the calculation was based on the current situation. We think we know what the situation is like in mid-March and what it takes. But if this is not enough, then I believe that municipalities should not be hindered by it. If the ministry gets signals that it's too little, it has to be said: we'll match that, you don't have to pay out of your own resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise anyone that 50PLUS welcomes this bill whereby the group of senior citizens from 70 years of age gets an extended choice to safely cast their vote during the upcoming Lower House elections on March 17th. Older people, because of their older age, may or may not be at increased risk in combination with vulnerable health with possible fatal outcome if they become infected with the coronavirus. My group is extremely content that this outgoing cabinet has sought to ensure that this target group of some 2.4 million voters is optimally protected so that they can vote as safely as possible. In short, the additional measures represent the possibility for voters aged 70 and over to vote by letter, so that they can avoid the passage to the polling room, two additional days to vote by adding Monday 15 and Tuesday 16 March next to the regular voting day on Wednesday 17 March in order to avoid crowds in the polling rooms, and a voter may vote for three other voters, i.e. three powers of attorney instead of the usual two. This outgoing government constantly insists that it must be safe for the electorate to vote. It should also be safe for voters to do their job in the polling stations. The study by Bureau MARE of 10 December 2020, meeting times Letter votes, shows that the option of letter votes for the 70-plus target group can be appreciated, but that the majority prefers voting in a voting room. For the time being, it can be concluded that many 70-plussers are going to make their own way to the polling room, if only because they do not consider themselves vulnerable at all. I know a few in my immediate vicinity who share this view. Previously, my group in the House of Representatives has called for speed tests to be offered to members of the polls, especially now that the presentation of a negative PCR test on flights is a sine qua non to gain access to the plane. Can the Minister explain to my group why until recently a negative PCR test for crew consisting of about six persons on average passengers of around 200 per flight was a requirement, but that this does not apply to members of a polling station, who face a lot more people? The Minister does not have to deal with the logistical side of providing rapid tests at polling stations, as my group is aware of this problem. My group would like to hear a well-founded answer: why shouldn't rapid tests be necessary? Mr. Chairman. The future is by none of us to predict. Each week, new measures are announced by this cabinet. Last Saturday, for example, a curfew entered, which means that no one is allowed to leave the house after 9 p.m. without a valid reason. This promulgated measure will apply until 10 February. In theory, however, it is not excluded that this deadline will be extended and still applies during the March voting days. How does this relate to the voting hours of the polling stations included in the Election Act from 7.30 a.m. to 9 p.m.? Is it conceivable that the closing time of 9 p.m. will be adjusted? If so, at what time? How is this communicated with the public? Mr. Chairman. In the note following the report of the House of Representatives, on page 9: "Otherwise, the Election Board advised (...) not to prevent the issuing of letter votes in a polling room, but to clarify what had to be done with return envelopes issued in the polling room." That was about the term "put aside" of letter votes, which was unclear. Therefore, after consultation, the legislative proposal clarifies that these votes are not put aside, but are kept separately and transferred by the polling office to the letter polling office at the end of the vote. How does this relate to the statement in the reply given on 15 January under point 2.2? It says: "If letters are found in the ballot boxes, those ballots are not counted." Can the Minister indicate whether there is a possibility that a 70-pluser might misplace his letter voice in the ballot box in the polling room, because he believes that he is voting in a lawful manner? So he doesn't vote through the ballot box. If such a possibility arises, my group's question is whether this letter vote is now kept separately and counted in accordance with the opinion of the Election Board, or whether this letter vote does not count at all, as stated in the reply. Perhaps such a situation is excluded because someone cannot walk directly to a ballot box without being stopped in the polling room. However, for the sake of clarity, please confirm to the Minister that a letter vote may be given at a polling station, which then arranges for a transfer to a letter voting office, so that the vote cast counts in any case. There is a good chance that the distinction between the agencies is not clear for the target group concerned. I refer to the government's website, with information on letter voting, which talks about letter voting agencies with no specific reference to the fact that these are offices other than the voting room. In any event, there should be no loss of vote on any possible confusion. Please explain to the Minister how she intends to avoid this confusion. Mr. Chairman. Many questions about fraudulent behaviour, which could influence the outcome of the election, have already been asked by the members of the House of Representatives and political groups in this House. The Minister replied in writing. My group does not think that a repetition of moves is necessary at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the powers of attorney. In the response of 15 January, reference is made to the review letter of 15 December 2020 on the reclassification elections held. The evaluation showed that it was in no way problematic for an proxy to be able to vote not three but only two proxy votes. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she concludes from this that in practice there is little or no need for the extension of two to three powers of attorney. How does it relate this outcome to the forthcoming Lower House elections, for which the reclassification elections played an exemplary role? Does the Minister agree with my group that increasing the number of powers of attorney could lead to greater influence on the proxy taker? Is there still a need to extend two to three powers of attorney? I would like the Minister's support on this point. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that 50PLUS will vote for this bill. I look forward to answering the questions put with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u63	Thank you, Mrs Baay-Timmerman. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u64	I understand very well that the 50PLUS group particularly embraces the point of letter voting for 70-plus. I hear in particular that Mrs Baay-Timmerman has all kinds of questions about the feasibility, the practical side and so on. Those seem to me to be very legitimate questions. I was wondering whether she also shares the fundamental concern. I know 50PLUS as a party that is also deeply concerned about age discrimination. My question is whether there is an element in this that is at least somewhat uncomfortable, only than the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u65	We are dealing here with emergency legislation and not with basic legislation which, purely and only from 70 years of age, defines a category that can vote in writing. My party, 50PLUS, will certainly be open to any person who wishes to vote in writing in the future. I think it is far too early at this stage to be able to make a final decision on this, but we are certainly not against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u66	Can I hear it in such a way that Mrs Baay will support our fundamental question, in which we asked the Minister for reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u67	That basic question certainly supports 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u69	I also have a fundamental question for Mrs Baay-Timmerman of 50PLUS: does 50PLUS agree with me that the elections should certainly continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u70	Of course, 50PLUS believes that these elections should continue, if only in order to clarify what should not be changed in the political landscape in the coming period. But distress breaks the law. We all know that there are circumstances, for example when 90% of the voters with corona are in bed sick at home, which may give rise to the postponement of the Lower House elections. But for the time being, it is absolutely certain that these elections must continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u71	That is clear in principle, but I would like to ask the following question. You say emergency breaks the law, for example, when 90% are at home sick. Then you're talking about absolute doom scenarios. However, as far as 50PLUS is concerned, there are clearly no lighter scenarios in which the elections will be postponed. It's just going on and doing everything in its power to make that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u72	For the moment, I do not see any obstructions at all to allow the elections to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. 50 days and then the Netherlands can go back to the ballot box. Then the Netherlands can finally decide on which way to go. There is no priceless climate policy, no uncontrolled immigration and no ever-expanding European Union, but sovereignty, security and prosperity. Despite this introduction, today we are not talking about the content of the elections, but about the process, a legislative proposal to organise the elections differently on two points. First of all... It is possible to vote physically longer and earlier. Second. People aged 70 can vote by letter. With this law, the cabinet aims to give as many people as possible the opportunity to vote during the covid pandemic. The bill is therefore of a temporary nature. This law automatically expires on 1 July 2021. However, when we look at the amateurism with which the vaccination programme is rolled out in the Netherlands, the pandemic will not be under control by 1 July. The Netherlands is dangling at the bottom of the vaccination list. Only Bulgaria is doing worse. It is the end of January, we are not yet at a 1% vaccination rate and at this rate we will only be at 6% at the end of June. Question to the Minister: how realistic is the deadline of 1 July 2021? Does the Minister have an extension proposal in the pipeline? Mr. Chairman. Then to the election process. A reliable electoral process depends on eight rules of thumb. These rules of thumb are transparency, accountability, integrity, right to vote, voting freedom, secrecy, uniqueness and accessibility. Those eight rules of thumb were not invented by us, but by the Korthals Altes Consultative Commission in 2007. They're in the Voices report with confidence. Mr. Chairman. When you put this bill, especially the letter vote, past the measuring bar of those eight rules of thumb of the Corthals Altes Committee, that doesn't look good. Yeah, accessibility improves. People can vote a few days earlier and vote letters will make the elections more accessible to 70-plussers who do not dare or want to go to a polling room in connection with corona. They already had the possibility of the power of attorney, but now also the letter vote. However, in terms of freedom of vote, this proposal is a deterioration. In the booth, the curtain works as a bonus for freedom of vote. Anonymous, free of influence, can be voted there. There's surveillance at the polling station. That is absolutely not the case with letter votes. The form can be filled in anywhere and letter voters can be pressured to make a different choice of voice, by family, by acquaintances or by recruiters. That can be large-scale. Mr. Chairman. Another pain point is the secret of voting. Is a voice cast by letter really secret? At the polling counter, the counter can see what an individual votes by letter. Let me give you an example. Grandson Pieter, active voter at the polling station in Appingedam, sees the voice of his grandmother Truus passing by during the counting of the letter voices. She ticked Jesse Klaver's box. Grandma Truus is ashamed of that and wants no one to know, but now grandson Pieter knows. I understand that he is going to be able to tell a story about this at a later date. It is just an example, but how does the Minister assess such a situation in the great world, where the secret of voting is gone because the initials and the names are recorded by letter votes? That's undesirable, isn't it? My group would like to hear again from the Minister how she assesses this law on the basis of the eight rules of thumb of the Corthals Altes Committee. On what rules of thumb does it get better and on what worse? Mr President, there is a lot of talk in the Chamber. I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u75	Could it be a little quieter in the room? It's bothering the speaker. If you would like to consult with the group, please leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u76	Does the Minister agree with us that this proposal is actually only an improvement in terms of accessibility and that it is also a deterioration or at most neutral? How is that weighed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u77	I am glad that Mr Van der Linden has listed those eight points again, because it is certainly worth looking at. He gives a good example of the secret of letters, which is not entirely safe because the person who opens the letter and looks at it can indeed see who voted. That's a risk, but that's a risk the letter tamper takes itself. Does Mr Van der Linden agree with me? He doesn't have to vote through the letter. If he doesn't mind, he can cast his letter vote. If he does mind, he can either go to the polling room or work with a proxy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u78	This is not true, of course. It is true that the letter-thumb takes that risk, but the letter-thumb may wish for its voting secrecy to be guaranteed. He may be afraid to go to the polling room because he's vulnerable or old and thinks that's too big a risk. That voter may then face a great dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u79	As we keep saying in this Chamber, it's a trade-off. That's what it is for the letter tamper, and that's his responsibility. It's a temporary measure born of need. Then these kinds of situations can occur. Then it's up to the letter tamper to determine how he deals with it. But now to show that the process is not right, as Mr Van der Linden was actually telling us. I would like to hear a further reflection from Mr Van der Linden on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u80	I also bring forward this reflection because I have just heard a number of parties argue in favour of making letter voting possible in a structural way. I think that the covid pandemic makes it clear that this is justified as an emergency measure, but if you always want to do it in the future, these eight safeguards need to be looked at much wider. It must then be considered and weighed whether the accessibility that is clearly increasing outweighs all the disadvantages that exist. I think that's important. Now that this is born of need, I say 'yes', but a number of parties already say that this should always be possible and then I think it is very important to weigh all aspects properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u82	The Minister explained in her replies that the alternative is to use a power of attorney. My question to Mr Van der Linden is: if you use a power of attorney, is the secret of voting really not guaranteed at all? Then whoever gives you that power of attorney knows everything. That's one. And two: you don't know at all if whoever got the power of attorney is gonna do what you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u83	That's right. The dilemma I have just outlined therefore mainly concerns people who do want their voices to remain secret, but who are also afraid to go to the polling room because of vulnerability to corona. That is where the dilemma arises. What you're describing about the power of attorney that's already regular is so. That is the current state of affairs. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr Van der Linden outlined problems that could arise from letter votes. I think it is right for him to draw attention to the fundamental aspects of the matter and to say that the care of the electoral process should be taken into account in a fundamental debate on voting in letters. But where does Mr Van der Linden get the idea that this proposal makes it possible for the grandson to see what Grandma voted? In this proposal, a letter vote is required in two envelopes. In one envelope is really the voice. It goes into another envelope, which contains the letter voice card. That's taken apart in the counting station. Then you know that one was entitled to vote. But the small envelope is only opened when the votes are counted. Then you won't be able to see who that note came from. That's not on the ballot. So how can Mr. Van der Linden say that the grandson can see what Grandma voted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u85	I think it's possible. People who vote by letter are also asked to sign the forms. They are kept for late purposes, in case there are signs of fraud, for example. It is just that at some point there is a relationship between the personal data and the voice in this letter votes. That risk is present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u86	I understand the proposal in such a way that there is no information on the ballot itself. There's no signature on that. At most it is on the accompanying forms at the ballot card, but not on the ballot itself. Of course, that would be very weird. You can't imagine that would ever have been invented, can you? I think it's a bit of a vote against lettering anyway. Why are you saying the grandson can read what Grandma voted? This proposal is designed to make this impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u87	I have used this example, this anecdote, to indicate where we see a risk and what concerns we have about ensuring the secret of voting. Mr Koole states that he has read it in a different way. Let us also ask the Minister: are the anonymity and the secret of voting with these letter votes absolutely guaranteed, or is it possible, at a later stage, to establish a relationship between the identity of the voter and the voter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u89	Fine to ask the Minister. If the answer is that that is absolutely guaranteed, then Mr Van der Linden takes back his words on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u90	I have given an example and distilled a question from it to the Minister. Let us wait for the answer and come back to it in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u91	You understand that my heart took a leap, because even Mr Van der Linden now realizes that the climate generation, the 70-plussers, are so worried about the future of their grandchild that they are going to vote for GroenLinks. That's very good for me. I have the next question. Mr Van der Linden suggests that all kinds of parties here say that they are very much in favour of lettering. I didn't hear that myself. I've heard them say, if you want to do it structuralally, you have to start asking questions of principle. At least that was true for us. My question is whether Mr Van der Linden simply agrees. It is said: yes, we have these principles; when we talk about the future, let us properly evaluate what is happening now and then ask the fundamental question under which conditions that would be desirable or not. Does Mr Van der Linden agree? Because that's actually what I've heard from the Chamber so far. It's not like everybody's gonna say, "Oh, go ahead."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u92	I fully agree with that, because that question needs to be asked. Come back to that in the course of my contribution, also in view of what is experienced elsewhere, for example on the other side of the ocean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u93	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. There is something strange about the vote in the letter, and that relates to the signature. A letter tuner must put a signature on the vote (plus) card that he or she sends in, but whether or not that signature is put in, the vote is counted anyway, according to the answers to our questions. Whether that signature is true at all is not verifiable. That's not gonna be checked either. Only in very exceptional cases does this happen. I am therefore looking forward to a response from the Minister on this point. Can the Commission explain once again why this act of making a signature is being carried out? Our group is not convinced of its usefulness. Mr. Chairman. A final point of attention in which my group wishes to dwell is that these letter votes could create new large-scale opportunities for fraud. Think about scavenging, it's already been mentioned once, picking up forms by post, or collecting discarded forms and sending them in. Those are just a few examples. Large-scale fraud is not unthinkable. The idea of large-scale fraud through media and social media can quickly create a broad social displeasure and doubt about the integrity of the electoral process. Take the recent elections in the United States. A survey conducted by Reuters/Ipsos in November revealed that half of the Republican voters thought that Trump had lost because of widespread vote fraud, especially in the case of the letter votes. We're talking about half of 74 million Trump voters. The Netherlands is a different country with a different system, but we really need to learn from this. That is why my group is proposing two measures and two proposals. The first is an extensive external fraud assessment. We asked for this in preparation, but we received an evasive answer. We therefore assume that there has been no extensive external fraud assessment. We want one or more specialised external parties to investigate as quickly as possible new risks of significant fraud introduced as a result of these new letter votes and the related control measures to prevent this. That needs to be reported to the public. That's transparent. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she's willing to undertake such an investigation. We are considering a motion on that point. Then there is the second proposal: transparency in advance on the risks of voting in letters. A smart public campaign can ensure that society is actively and prior to the elections informed of how, despite the introduction of 2.4 million new letter votes, the government can guarantee a fair result of the elections. In this way, you will have a prior debate and discussion about this and the cabinet will be able to parry or correct criticism in advance, rather than afterwards. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she's willing to commit to such a campaign. On this point, too, we are considering a motion. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u95	Thank you. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u96	A question about the fight against fraud. In itself, it is very good to look at it and to be critical of it. If we look back at the way that went in America, does Mr Van der Linden agree with me that there were very few indications of fraud in the end, and that the big problem was that this was stirred up from political circles? In a form of political hooliganism, the outcome was challenged and the idea of fraud was constantly tried to hang over the market. Wasn't that the real problem? Are you gonna solve that with a lot of fraud, or are you gonna solve that with responsible politicians?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u97	I do suggest that we stay within the context of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u98	I think there's both. That is why my appeal is: make sure that you make it very clear at the front whether those possibilities exist. There are ways to cheat. That is also recognised. There are new possibilities due to large-scale letter voices. Be very clear in advance about where these risks are and what measures you have taken to prevent them. Be very transparent about this and make sure that you inform the public and society very clearly in advance, before the elections. Then you can avoid discussions afterwards. We haven't seen much of that yet, but we're calling for that. Do that before the election and show how that is done, so that you can have much less discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u99	Mr Van der Linden rightly criticises the letter vote and the integrity of the electoral process. I would like to ask him whether he agrees with me that the elections will have to continue in any case, despite this criticism, which is quite justified. I will argue that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u100	Yes. This country needs new leadership and new policies, so they must definitely continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u101	I agree with Mr Ganzevoort. He says that it is very good in itself if the questions about fraud once again pass through properly. A campaign would probably also make sense. My question to Mr van der Linden is what fraud could occur in the vote in the letter which could not also arise in the possibility of voting by proxy for over a hundred years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u102	I have just mentioned an example. For example, someone gets the forms sent and throws them away. He's not gonna vote, and he's gonna aim them in the paper can. They'll be captured and sent in with a voice. That could be a possibility. Perhaps that could be more large-scale than with powers of attorney. Let me give you an example. My appeal to such a fraud assessment is to map all these possibilities. Let us see what possibilities there are and what management measures there are. These forms are then appointed and it can be ruled out that the elections are actually adversely affected by fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u103	Still, let's get back to that one example. The proxy forms can also be thrown into the paper tray.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u104	I don't think that's gonna work. They're for a specific polling station. Large-scale capture can also be difficult, because you can go to a polling station with up to two of those powers, or now three. Maybe you can capture 100 discarded forms for letter votes per person. You don't have to bring it to the polling station yourself. You don't have to stop by on your own. I think that's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u105	Thank you. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is essential that, despite all the corona conditions, the Lower House elections can continue on Wednesday 17 March. That is why this bill is needed. Postponing the elections would be absolutely undesirable. In addition, conditions must be created to ensure that turnout is as high as possible and that everyone is able to vote responsibly. A number of corona measures have already taken place in the November reclassification elections. That brings me to my first question. Can the Minister indicate whether the turnout in these elections was higher or lower than usual? Hopefully we will be off the totally disproportionate and unnecessary curfew as soon as possible. But with the fickle outgoing Rutte cabinet, you never know. Maybe the curfew still applies on 17 March, or the cabinet again imposed such an unholy order on the Dutch citizens. Can the Minister indicate whether a curfew, if any, will prevent the continuation of the Lower House elections on 17 March? Should there be a curfew on that day, can the Minister guarantee that voters can vote unpunished until 9 p.m. and that they can also return home after 9 p.m. without creating obstacles? Can the Minister also guarantee that voting will then remain publicly available despite a possible curfew? Furthermore, the measures now proposed, such as the extension of the powers of attorney, the early opening up and, in particular, the voting of letters, must be truly safe and careful. The Minister himself points out that voting for letters has the disadvantages. That has just been mentioned. The secret of voting and the freedom to vote cannot be guaranteed in the same way as in the voting room. This has already been indicated in 2007 by the advisory committee on electoral process, the Korthals Altes advisory committee, in a risk analysis: the letter vote introduces new risks in the electoral process. That has already been clearly stated at the time. The voter using a vote (plus) pass must sign it. But if the signature is missing, the vote is still valid according to this bill. According to the Minister, the signature is necessary for a possible ex post investigation, if there is evidence of fraud. But how illogical is that? Someone who wants to cheat, does not sign it, because the vote is valid even without that signature. Now that it is not necessary, this is an extra risk of fraud. I would like a response from the Minister to this illogical reasoning. What is it going to do to prevent such fraud? The VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, wonders in its opinion why it is not necessary to send a copy of an ID at the vote, while legitimising in person is necessary. Is this not at the expense of controllability and integrity, as the UNG states? I'd like a response from the Minister. When returning votes by post, the usual controls in the polling station are lacking. To our group's written questions on the risks of recruitment of voting documents, the Minister gave an answer that focuses on the improper use of the ballot note in a voting room. But that's not the point. There is no identity check at the post-voting stage, which could increase the risk of recruitment. The Minister merely states that it is the electorate's own responsibility to prevent this. But recruitment can be very sophisticated, especially with the vulnerable target group of older people in the letter vote. It is not for nothing that the Election Board states in its risk analysis about letter voting: "When the voter fills in the ballot at home, there are no voters or observers present to ensure that the voter fills in the ballot independently free of influence. Influence by relatives or bystanders can be considered family voting, but also on a larger scale, for example in homes, recruiting, buying or stealing votes."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u107	I know the quote. Isn't that the same thing with the power of attorney? In fact, we've known the power of attorney for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u108	A power of attorney is something else of character. In doing so, a person is given a power of attorney in person and in confidence. That's a little bit more direct than the letter vote. But I agree with Mr Nicolaï that this risk also exists in the case of powers of attorney. They've already been warned about that by the Election Council. In 2015, they already asked for an investigation to look into that. In their opinion, they have said: look more closely at the risks of recruitment with powers of attorney. Now the number of powers of attorney is increasing, so the risk is increasing. I agree with Mr Nicolaï that this is a risk, but that risk is now further increased by introducing the letter vote. That's where the concern lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u109	One more question for Mr Van Hattem. You say it's gonna be magnified. But the voter has the power of attorney and the letter voting form. So what's being magnified?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u110	Another additional possibility is given not to vote in person in a polling station, with which there is still a possibility for the evildoers, for example, to apply recruitment practices. These ballot letters can simply be taken from, for example, a nursing home if someone is impressionable. Those are possibilities. Or they can be issued in a particular location. The risk is increased and it is even more anonymous than voting by proxy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u112	Given the previous quote: can the Minister indicate what she is going to do to prevent, for example, in a mosque with family voting bystanders from influencing Erdogan's long arm, or that, especially in Islamic circles, women cannot vote at all? Furthermore, the Election Council states: "From the moment the electorate inserts the ballot note into the (letters) box, it is difficult to monitor any fraudulent acts that take place when the letter vote is on its way to the letter polling office. This could include interception and replacement of ballots. This risk may also arise when sent to the electorate." The Minister states that PostNL is going through a specially automated process for this, but to what extent can it be ruled out that evildoers can cheat with this? Can the Minister clarify the security guarantees? I would therefore like a more detailed explanation of what the Minister is going to do to prevent such recruitment practices with letter votes by post. Has the Minister already consulted the Public Prosecutor's Office on the preparation of the Lower House elections, as she announced in her written reply to the Lower House? Have any agreements been made with the D.A. to prevent and tackle fraud? The same applies to the powers of attorney. In the written round, the Minister merely indicated that the recruitment of powers of attorney is punishable and that any signals must be contacted with the Public Prosecutor and reported. However, the Minister does not indicate whether she is also taking preventive measures to prevent recruitment of powers of attorney. I would like a response: to what extent can we expect preventive action from the Minister? In the event of an early vote, the votes cast on 15 and 16 March must be transported and stored securely in order to prevent uncounted ballots from disappearing or being added. The Minister has not yet indicated how this is to be done and what safety requirements and conditions are to be laid down. It has merely indicated that this will be worked out in a ministerial arrangement. Can the Minister indicate whether this arrangement is already in place, or at least make it clear what is going to be the approach and design of that arrangement? The VNG also indicates that not all municipalities have safe rooms that are suitable for this purpose and that external locations are sometimes used. Can the Minister state what this means in concrete terms for the security of the ballots? In addition, the Election Council indicates that software is used for adding up when determining the result. The Election Board states that at these Supporting Software Elections 2020, OSV2020, the possibilities to adapt them on time are limited and currently not easy to oversee. In addition, the ministerial arrangement laying down the models for this purpose has not yet been adopted. Can the Minister state the state of play? Our Second Chamber colleague Martin Bosma has asked questions about this addition software Chamber questions that have unfortunately not yet been answered. This software would have been developed by the controversial German company IUU Traffic Technologies AG, which provided Germany with a system that was not working properly. One of the board members of this company is a Dutch former director of an O.V. company involved in the large public procurement scandal in Limburg a few years ago. There were deliberately and knowingly fake constructions used to bring in the public procurement. Can the Minister explain why she leaves the core of the electoral process, the addition of votes, to the software of a company with such a dubious track record? Why not just count by hand? Finally. The possibility is outlined for a possible suspension when counting the votes. Can the Minister indicate what measures are being taken to ensure that the ballot letters in question are as secure as possible during a suspension? What specific guarantees are attached to this during a suspension? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mr Van Hattem said at the beginning that the elections must go ahead at all costs. I thought he'd come back to that later, but that didn't turn out to be the case. That is why I have a question about this. Can Mr Van Hattem imagine a situation in which the elections cannot continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u115	It may, in a manner of speaking, strike a giant meteorite that wipes the country out. Then the election won't go through either. Theoretically, there are always possibilities. But given the current circumstances, which this law also sees, it is simply a matter of allowing the elections to continue. We have a corona situation that's been going on for almost a year now. In that year we held elections once, namely in November. Until now, there has been no opportunity for us to say that this is a reason not to allow it to continue. At the moment, we do not foresee any reason why the elections should not go ahead. In fact, it is absolutely necessary to allow them to continue. There is now a legislative proposal that, although it contains a lot of ifs and buts and perhaps also some care, it is essential that the elections continue at all costs. They won't tolerate any delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u116	We, too, would like the elections to continue, but we must be able to do it carefully. Now Mr Van Hattem says again "for what costs." He mentioned a meteorite. Just now he said that if 90% is in quarantine, there might be a reason. I conclude from this that, according to Mr Van Hattem, there is also a possibility that the elections will not continue. I therefore ask Mr Van Hattem that the absolute nature of 'always must continue' is not so absolute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u117	If the situation were to arise that the Netherlands no longer exists at all, or if there is no longer any human traffic at all, it would be something else. But given the current circumstances, there is no reason to postpone the elections. I'm making a difference from the PvdA Group. I have just heard Mr Koole say that it is a kind of sine qua non that it must be done responsibly and that otherwise it cannot go on. So the PvdA Group is already taking an advance on not letting it go. We are turning it around: it must go on at all costs. Only in the exceptional case of a war or I know a lot what, it's different. But under the circumstances, elections must take place on 17 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u118	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u119	The PvdA does not take any advance on the failure to proceed, it only asks for the criteria on the basis of which it is unexpectedly decided to do so. I note that Mr Van Hattem also says that there may be circumstances under which the elections will not continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u120	We have already talked about holding polls on the willingness to participate. Let's say those polls show that 40% of people are afraid of corona and we don't know what it's like to vote. Does Mr Van Hattem consider that relevant or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u121	That's quite a like-dan question. Precisely with the law now before us, we are taking measures to ensure that the elections can continue in a responsible manner. Then we should just let them go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u122	I would like an answer to my question anyway. Does Mr Van Hattem think it is a relevant fact that 40% of the people would not vote under this law if it were passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u123	As I said, there are plenty of possibilities. The number of powers of attorney is increased, letter votes are achieved and polling stations are opened up early. So there is plenty of opportunity. The elections must continue, and I am quite clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u124	Finally, Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u125	I note that Mr Van Hattem is not answering, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u126	My answer is very clear, including to Mr Koole, who says that I am not making it absolutely. I make it absolutely clear that the elections must continue on 17 March. Under normal circumstances, we will continue to do so. As far as I am concerned, all these situations that are now being outlined are not applicable. The elections will continue on March 17th. That's why we're doing everything we can. So far in the first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u127	I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. In world history, democracies demonstrated their resilience by allowing elections to continue in crisis time. Think of the elections during the American civil war, the elections during the Spanish flu pandemic or, on a much smaller scale and much closer to home, November 2020, when municipal reclassification elections were held during the coronapandemic in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. We assume that the Dutch Parliamentary Election of 17 March will continue and that everything will indeed be done to ensure that this election is safe. It is, as we understand it, an enormous organisational and logistical operation to ensure that the whole process goes smoothly, despite the pandemic and despite the fear of the English variant of the coronavirus. But elections are the beating heart of a democracy. The wheels of the election must therefore function properly and the people behind the scenes of an election are essential. That also proves this bill. The fraction of D66 appreciates all those people who are involved in this major operation. In world history there were dictators who said: not the people who vote decide an election, but the people who count the votes. That is, of course, a very cynical statement, but it is clear that the organisation behind an election is of paramount importance. Let me therefore begin by congratulating the Minister and, through her, all those involved in the organisation of the upcoming elections, especially the volunteers who are recruited. Since the last information in the reply of 15 January, two weeks have passed, so I would like to ask the Minister if she can give the latest state of play on all preparations in the municipalities. Does everything go according to schedule? Are there enough volunteers? Mrs Baay-Timmerman has asked questions about curfew. I also had the same question, so for the sake of short, I agree with her. In the bill, the Minister introduces three important new elements for the upcoming elections. First of all, the vote by letter for voters aged 70 and over. I must honestly say that we initially looked rather oddly at that age limit: would it not be illegal age discrimination? But the Minister has convinced us in the documents that there are valid reasons to limit the letter vote to a generic group of 2.4 million over 70s, which according to the RIVM are very vulnerable to covid virus infection. Extending the group to people who are vulnerable for other reasons would also face insurmountable implementation problems. We in D66 find the letter voice interesting and are curious how it will work out and whether it can also be introduced at regular elections. How does the Minister view this? In EU countries such as Germany, Spain and Austria, letter voices are commonplace, as in Britain. We do believe that letter votes justify a debate of principle and I therefore agree with what Mr Ganzevoort said in his term. The second renewal, the early vote on 15 and 16 March for vulnerable groups in principle, was introduced in this bill to remove some pressure on 17 March. We have taken good note of the fact that others who do not belong to the vulnerable groups, but who cannot or do not want to vote on 17 March, will not be expelled when they report to the polling room on 15 or 16 March. My question to the Minister is whether all the people in the polling stations have been properly instructed. The possibility of earlier votes is an interesting novelty for D66. If it goes well with this election, it can, as far as we are concerned, be introduced as a standard in future elections after we have, of course, discussed it further, and perhaps extended by more days. What's the Minister's position on that? Of course, this will be discussed in the evaluation of this election. We shall then come back to that. The third is to increase the number of proxy votes from two to three. In the past, we have seen that there have been incidents surrounding the recruitment of votes. The D66 Group assumes that it is closely monitored to prevent unauthorised acts by proxy, as well as voting by letter. We are therefore curious about the evaluation of this election and what lessons can be drawn from it for other elections. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a conclusion. We wish almost all political parties and all those involved in the organisation of the elections every success. We have seen that in a country like the United States, where elections were held during the corona pandemic, there were long queues for polling stations. Long rows of people with a mouth cap on, five feet apart. They stood there with the will to make their voice heard, to show their commitment to the administration of the country and to exert their influence. We find that encouraging. Unfortunately, today and recently, we have noticed that there are calls on social media to disrupt the elections, so I ask the Minister to take that into account. Can she tell us in advance in this debate how we will arm ourselves against it, should that happen unexpectedly? I would like to conclude by saying: let us hope in any case that the election of 17 March in the Netherlands may be a great celebration for democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u130	On that last point, of course, I fully agree with Mr Dittrich. That is why I would like to ask him first of all whether he agrees with me that the elections should actually continue on 17 March. But my initial interruption is next. I hear Mr Dittrich, on the one hand, arguing that it is perfectly normal and that it is taking place in many other countries. He mentioned several countries. But at the same time, in his speech, he also recognises the risks of fraud. Isn't that a contradiction? Should we not, on the contrary, prevent a system that is sensitive to fraud from being rigged, rather than having a wide-ranging debate on it, which he calls for, in order to implement it permanently in due course, to ensure that this is an emergency measure that we should ultimately refrain from as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u131	In the documents we have already discussed with the Minister a possible risk that can manifest itself, both in the voting of letters and in the voting of powers, which is extended from two to three. We have to recognize that. We know that in other countries letter voting has been done for a very long time and is normal. They don't want fraud in their letter votes there either. So we can also learn from other EU countries, from our neighbouring countries that have that letter vote. That is why I think it is very important that these elections and this legislative proposal are evaluated and that we can learn lessons from what will then be the findings. Then we'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u132	So, as far as Mr Dittrich is concerned, it is too early to talk about a wide-ranging debate now in order to enable that letter to be voted on. I have not yet had an answer to my question as to whether you agree with me that the elections should continue on 17 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u133	You ask everyone that question, but when you are asked that question, you say: yes, but there are possibilities that they will not continue anyway, if a meteorite falls or something like that. I'm not going to go into the case at all. We assume that the elections will continue, assuming that if the government informs the Second and First Chambers that the elections cannot continue, then we are in a hurry. Then we are going to talk about whether we agree or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u134	Of course, our group also believes that the elections should continue, let there be no misunderstanding. Mr Dittrich just quoted the elections in the United States as an example of how to continue the elections. I would also like to return to what Mr Van Hattem said earlier, namely that the counting of votes in the United States is being done very transparently and in public. In other countries, it is. Anyone there can see what happens. In the Netherlands it is not such a transparent event. I myself have also experienced a number of times that there is simply no public admission, especially when the aggregation of votes takes place. That's been investigated, and that's a weakness in the system. Does Mr Dittrich agree with me that, in particular, the counting of votes and the aggregation of votes at a higher level should be much more transparent and that it is actually a missed chance that this has not been included?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u135	Yes, I actually agree that it should and could be more transparent. I also ask the Minister, through you, how she looks at this. I have seen that it gives extra confidence in the process if people can watch, as happens in the United States, via the webcam or in a different way, sometimes even in the countroom in a gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u136	That's good to hear. I have a second question for Mr Dittrich. We have seen in a number of elections that the mayor suddenly stopped counting the votes. This happened, for example, in Amsterdam, where in the late evening I stumbled upon Mr Van der Burg at the Stopera. In a number of elections, it was suddenly said: we stop counting. I thought that was a very strange way of doing things. Does Mr Dittrich agree with me that we should not have such practices on 17 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u137	I think that's a very specific case. I do not know the circumstances at all, but the law provides for the possibility of counting votes after the voting rooms are closed. That turned out to be 9:00 a.m. on March 17th. Then we must do everything we can to ensure that this is done carefully. There are also people who control that. They report on that. In the end, that will be returned to the Second and the First Chambers and then we will talk about it. If there are any incidents, they will be reported. We need to avoid that as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u138	I notice from several speakers that we see the elections as a bit of an experiment, such as 'we are going to introduce the letter vote and let's see how that goes'. I'd like to warn you about that. I believe that we are now facing full elections, which are basically valid for four years. You'll have to have a guarantee that they'll work properly. My question to Mr Dittrich is: do you have the feeling, despite its experimental character, that this is full-fledged and that we can already start with the vote on the letter, while there are still a lot of questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u139	In principle, we find letter votes very interesting, and also the earlier voting. It has to go well, of course. There will also be an evaluation and, of course, we will all receive advice from all kinds of people. On that basis, we need to look at the question of whether this is something we can really introduce at forthcoming elections. Then the Election Act will also have to be amended, because this is an emergency law related to the corona contamination. In that sense, this is a certain kind of experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u140	Mr Raven, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u141	You say again that in due course we must see what comes out, but we are going to face full elections, which will last for four years. We're getting a new room. Then you must have the guarantee that there can be no discussion about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u142	Well, we have a Election Board and that Election Board is about the outcome. It may be objected to. It's already been provided for. But there is no reason to think now that everything is going to go wrong or will go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u143	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We no longer have any legal voting or voting obligation. Until 1970, we felt that voting was so important to shape the functioning of democracy that there was an obligation to vote. The voter now has the responsibility to make use of the right to vote. Many people feel that this is a civic duty, and our group understands that. Our society is now facing major challenges. The forthcoming elections are an excellent moment to give a new direction to our dealings with each other and with this planet. Those who feel it is a duty to vote, we understand very well. At the same time, the forthcoming elections represent a danger to those who wish to fulfil their duties. It is the largest Dutch event and it takes place in a situation where events are forbidden to restrict the spread of COVID-19. We must not come together, we must reduce our movements and we will be kept home after 9 p.m. The fear of new variants of the virus is attacking us. The OMT is coming up with ever more far-reaching measures. Allowing an event like elections to continue without proper additional measures does not fit in that picture. Research carried out by the Institute of Labor Economic has shown that in the five weeks after the French municipal elections of March last year, mortality increased significantly. Researchers even concluded, based on the 2014 turnout rate, that the number of deaths among older people would have been 21.8% higher. For those who use their common sense, it is logical that all these meetings in polling stations will boost the spread of the virus. An event of this magnitude may prove to be a fatal mistake for a number of compatriots. Mr. Chairman. What does the OMT say about this biggest event in the Netherlands? The answer given by the government to our questions shows that no advice has been requested from the OMT at all. It seems that the government does not intend to do so in the near future either. This is incomprehensible to our group. The government refers to opinions requested from RIVM in 2019. Like nothing's changed since then. As if at the moment there are no expert virologists who are alarming about the new variants and consider it wise to move the elections in March to later if there are no safe adjustments, such as the letter vote. "Then you'll have to cancel," says Diederik Gommers in the NRC of 13 January. Can the Minister indicate when the OMT is asked to give advice on how to continue this event? Can the Minister promise that if the OMT advises to do so, that advice will have to lead to postponement or adjustments of the elections? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Such a decision to postpone would not be necessary if the government had opened the letter vote for everyone. This is not the case, which forces many voters to participate in an unsafe meeting in order to exercise the right to vote. Unfortunately, voters will drop out, according to research by, for example, Maurice de Hond. Of all the voters who intend to vote, 11% indicated that they would not vote in the elections if they could not vote by letter. The results of research in the reclassification elections are in line with this. I quote: 'Almost one in five non-voters indicate that they did not vote because of corona'. Thus the conclusion. This is a direct violation of the democratic rights of the electorate. I would like to know from the Minister how she assesses these worrying figures for us. Does she have any other figures? If so, will it then share it with us prior to the votes? Mr. Chairman. Not only the 70-plussers are vulnerable; in addition to the elderly, RIVM also identifies groups of adults with underlying conditions as vulnerable to the coronavirus. These include people with chronic respiratory or lung problems, heart patients, people with diabetes, kidney disease, severe liver disease or severe overweight and patients with reduced resistance, e.g. cancer patients during chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. This group comprises more than 2 million voters. In fact, people who are vulnerable to the virus or afraid to go to a voting room are deprived of their voting rights. I would like a clear response from the Minister on how she thinks she can justify this. Mr. Chairman. Although during the debate in the Lower House the Minister indicated that it was virtually impossible to print letter-voting documents in time for all voters, her answer to our questions shows that this is indeed possible. And, let me just say, if the printing process is divided between different printing works, there is still time to be gained. Mr. Chairman. The right to vote is a sacred right. The government is obliged to promote the possibility of exercising your right as much as possible. Anyone who wants to cast his own vote and does not want to share with others who he votes for will either have to go to a voting room or have the opportunity to vote by letter. The legislator does not allow two voters to sit in a voting booth at the same time to avoid unwanted influence. Then why does the cabinet think that millions of voters have to share their vote preference with people they have to empower, with whom they have to share copies of their ID and who they have to trust to cast their vote correctly? I'd like a response. Why can't vulnerable voters express their willingness to vote for letter in an easy way, for example through their DigiD? Mr. Chairman. Practical obstacles to making letter voting possible for everyone should simply solve a government. That can also be large enough as creativity and commitment. It is precisely a minister of a party that carries out "democrats" in its name that can be expected to do its utmost to solve practical obstacles to letter voting for everyone. Is that really not possible at this time? Then there is only one decision: to postpone the elections in order to allow the process of voting in letters for everyone. Not because our party wants that so badly, but out of concern for fair elections and doubts about the legality of article 7b of the Temporary House Election Law covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u145	Mr Nicolaï of the Animal Party called for the elections to be postponed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u146	No, you can't hear me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u147	I would like to add that if that story about the letter voting is not made possible for everyone. At the same time, I hear Mr Nicolaï say that the voting of letters has the disadvantage that people have to share their data for that purpose. They can't vote in person. But it's got to be one of two. Can Mr Nicolaï state why he would like to postpone the elections if the vote in the letter does not go ahead, while at the same time recognizing that the vote in the letter has a major disadvantage with regard to voting in person?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u148	I think Mr Van Hattem did not listen very carefully. I gave as an example that those disadvantages I mentioned arise when you have to give power of attorney. I said that because the cabinet's argument to make letter voting impossible for everyone: yes, but they can do it with power of attorney. I have also said to Mr van der Linden and to you that anything can go wrong with giving power of attorney. Then you have to share with someone you're going to vote for. Then you have to trust that the person concerned will perform the power of attorney as you gave it to him. If you put a letter yourself in an envelope and put it in the mail or give it to someone who issues it at such an issuing agency, that influence is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u149	That too is only partly true, because as Mr Van der Linden has already pointed out, as I see him coming, a vote must also be filled in with the information that someone has to extract from the envelope at the same time at a polling station. So it's not completely anonymous. In addition, the person can also throw or tear up the letter voice you give him to post on the way. That's just something you have to rely on. So the letter voting is not an absolutely guaranteed system. On the contrary. The rigorous decision to postpone the elections, thus denying many more voters the opportunity to vote at this crucial moment, is far more far-reaching than the possible risk that there is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u150	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u151	... regarding the limited possibilities of voting in letters and voting power?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u152	Mr Van Hattem now mentions all kinds of disadvantages that have nothing to do with influence, which he said at first. Of course, the letter may be lost at the post and of course the person to whom you give the envelope can throw it away; that's right. But you were talking about fraud sensitivity, that you could turn votes given on one party into a vote on another party. That is not the case at all. You were talking about influence, that someone's wrong. That's not what's happening. It can be done completely in person. That's one. Secondly, in the course of my speech, I would like to say that we have serious doubts as to whether it is actually legitimate for this limit to be set at the age of 70.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u153	I suggest that we wait for that argument. Otherwise, we will be given a second follow-up to the argument. Is that okay, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u154	Yes, Mr President, but let me make it clear that at the heart of the matter is the great impact of postponing the elections on a much larger group of voters than the limited part you are talking about. That's far more far-reaching than the discussion we're having right now, isn't it? That is an element that I do not hear coming back in your speech. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr President, if I may, I would like to respond. What matters to me is that if these variants are going to fly around, it is possible that 30% to 40% of people say 'I dare no longer', especially for those under 70 who are not going to be able to vote in writing, and that we will deprive those people of their right to vote. You have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u156	Thank you. Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u157	I get the impression from the interruptions that Mr Nicolaï believes that the risk of recruitment and the impact on fraud is equal or perhaps smaller in the case of letter votes than in the case of proxy. I would like to ask him whether he is aware that the extent of such fraud can be much greater in the case of letter votes, because it is much more scalable. With a power of attorney, you may take a maximum of two or three powers of attorney to the bureau and you must bring them together to vote. So for 60 powers of attorney, you're gonna need 20 people. But in the case of letter votes, of course, that is on a much larger scale. For example, you can collect everything at a nursing home before something is filled in and fill it out with one person perhaps 100 times. Surely you agree that this scalability is much greater and the risk is also greater?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u158	I think we should wait and see what the Minister will say about that. We must also wait and see what experts have to say about fraud sensitivity, as proposed by Mr Van der Linden. You are not an expert, and I am not an expert, and I cannot entirely rule out the fact that you are right, but I cannot rule out the fact that you are wrong. Let's just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u159	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u160	Mr. Chairman. It is precisely in protecting the right to vote in democracy that the principle of equality must be respected. Whether you can vote in writing or not now depends solely on an arbitrary age limit. The reason given in the draft is that 70-plussers are generically vulnerable to the coronavirus. If they are vulnerable to COOVID-19 as a basis, other vulnerable people should be given equal rights. According to the government, the proposal of the Election Board to allow for the voting of letters on request was practically not feasible from the explanatory statement on the draft. But by opening the letter not to applicants but to everyone, it is in fact achieved that those who need it and who would make an application in the proposal of the Election Council can make use of that additional possibility. That's the group we're talking about. Others will just go to the polling room. In the meantime, the government has shown no commitment whatsoever to make this practical and to come up with an urgent act to remove the 70-year limit. Mr. Chairman. Equal treatment of voters is of the utmost importance to my group. That should apply to all groups. I would like to present to the Minister some examples of voters who are not now entitled to vote in writing. A 55-year-old man with pulmonary emphysema who has been told by his pulmonary doctor that he is particularly vulnerable to COVID-19. A 48-year-old cancer patient undergoing chemotherapy and rightly afraid of infection. A 23-year-old student whose grandmother died of COVID-19 and who has visions of fear that he will also be infected. A 38-year-old voter who carefully follows all RIVM recommendations to stay home as much as possible, makes as little contact as possible and expects to be able to vote 100% safely. Can the Minister explain how she thinks it can be justified that these four voters have no right to vote in letters and a healthy man or woman of 72 years old does? I would like to comment; I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a very different thought. It is a good thing that coronak vulnerabilities are met in this temporary electoral law. It would be right if all the vulnerable had been given the opportunity to vote by letter, but the government does not think it can go that far. This has led to the age limit. But is the Netherlands not going to be in his shirt if the question is rightly raised whether this temporary electoral law will lead to certain political parties being promoted? For example, electoral research shows that the CDA is particularly good at 70-plus and that D66 and GroenLinks have little chance of supporting. The question arises as to whether this law does not result in an unacceptable and legally prohibited influence on election results by giving the 70-plussers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This question will soon be asked by countries that we, as rapporteur, have read the lesson in elections. Is the government aware of this? I would like the Minister's clear and firm opinion on this. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I had come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u161	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u162	I understand Mr Nicolaï's concern at the end, but I also find it very complicated to talk here about possible effects as an argument not to want certain forms. I would like to work to convince all those 70-plussers of the importance of fighting for the climate. I would, for myself, like to stay away from the risk of party political considerations being included in constitutional considerations. How does Mr Nicolaï see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u163	You mean my final comment on the possible influence of the electoral results?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u164	Sure. Mr Nicolaï suggests that the unequal distribution of electoral outcomes across different age groups should be an argument to look at. I find that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u165	I don't think it's an argument to look at. All I'm saying is that as a democratic country, we control what happens elsewhere in the world with elections. I must not forget that at some point it is said that by giving the 70-plussers an additional voting opportunity in law, when research shows that those 70-plussers support certain parties in particular, without wanting to do so, but it is the effect that influences the election results. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u166	My plea to Mr Nicolaï would be to hold the debate mainly on the constitutional structure and on how all citizens have equal opportunities. I fully agree with that, and that needs to be sorted out. Perhaps we should stay a little away from the question of whether there is a risk that certain parties will suffer from this. I think it is a complicated argument and I hope Mr Nicolaï will recognize that it is complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u167	From a legal point of view, I think it is not such a complicated reasoning. The question is whether, if we give an advantage to certain electors, it can lead us to be blamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u168	Do I hear Mr Nicolaï say that the group we are talking about now, the 70-plussers, could get an extra vote, or is he talking about an extra vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u169	Exactly what you're saying. I'm talking about an extra vote. Someone who is vulnerable, one of those four people I mentioned in my example, does not go to the polling room and cannot vote by letter. He doesn't get the opportunity a 70-player gets. As a First Chamber, we must look at this as closely as possible, taking into account the state of law, equality and so on. It may be contrary to the principle of equality, but we can go one step further. We can raise this rather complicated question whether it can lead us to be blamed for actually giving certain voters an advantage that is reflected in the election result.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u170	I would like to hear from Mr Nicolaï how he sees that other vulnerable people who have not yet reached the age of 70 are failing with that additional opportunity. They still have the power of attorney. Of course, there is a difference between voting by letter and giving a power of attorney, but it is far too far for me to say that at that time they do not have the opportunity to vote without having to go to a polling room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u171	In theory that is true, but there will also be people who say: I have no desire to give a power of attorney, because I do not want the person who is going to exercise the power of attorney to know which party I am voting on. You have to respect that. This possibility also applies to the 70-pluser. I mean, couldn't he just vote with a power of attorney? That's exactly the same story, but that 70-player can do something extra right now. And I am not against a letter vote at all, I am merely raising the issue of babysitting. We're making a line now, and is that right? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has serious doubts about this. I also wonder whether it is legally sustainable. And if we think about that, let's make sure that limit falls by giving all people the opportunity to vote in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u172	I would like to repeat once again that this is about emergency legislation. I was just talking about this in the small debate with Mr Ganzevoort. If, at some point, we are going to make a basic choice, which must be laid down in legislation, that letter voting becomes an option, I think it would be absolutely undesirable to link it to a particular category. But we are talking about emergency legislation, that's point one. Secondly, it seems to me that there is a difference between someone in society who is vulnerable but still has a whole network to give that power of attorney to, or the elderly, especially the very elderly from 80 or 85 years of age, who no longer have that network. They can't issue a power of attorney anymore. That was a criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u173	Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u174	The criterion of having a network is not in the law. I heard from Mrs Baay that there are enough 70-plussers who just go to the polling room. That's not the point. This is about the legal boundary that is being laid. I agree with you that this is emergency legislation. But we look as rapporteurs in countries where elections are taking place, and that is often countries where emergency laws and things like that are being dealt with. Then we look very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u175	I hear Mr Nicolaï say that the elderly are favoured or disadvantaged. It is, of course, a fact that older people often vote more. There are therefore many polling stations in old people's homes and you name it. Does Mr Nicolaï not agree with me that it would be much better to vote on Sunday, following the example of many other countries in the world? Then also people who work have time to vote. This has been blocked for a long time by certain minority groups from a religious angle. Do you not agree with me that it is actually better for the promotion of participation? Workers now have to go between companies on a Wednesday to the polling stations. It would be much better to do so as in large parts of the world on Sundays. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u176	It is a bit off today's subject, but I can say to Mr Otten that we have no objection if there is also a possibility of voting on Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u177	Thank you, Mr van der Burg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u178	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank you to the Minister for the prompt response to all the questions raised by my colleagues in the written rounds. Until last Friday, you answered questions from us as Chambers, and all this thinking that we can clarify as quickly as possible the mayors responsible for all matters that need to be settled on what can and can not be done. It's gonna be quite a job organizing elections. You also gave a clear answer to a number of points in the reply to the written rounds. The main theme was the 70-plus voice versus the vulnerable voice, also mentioned several times here. It is right, moreover, that these questions should be asked, and rightly so, that the question should be asked as to whether that limit could not be lower than 70. Could it apply to anyone? I think the Minister has made it perfectly clear that there are mainly organisational reasons not to do so. Just practical: we don't have enough time. That is, of course, the fundamental debate, I say towards GroenLinks. However, this is indeed a matter of emergency legislation. In that sense, I am addressing Mrs Baay-Timmerman, who started her story with: distress breaks the law. Mr Kox, our nestor, always says: no, the good thing about the discussion we are constantly having is that need does not break a law. We come up with emergency laws to prevent that, and so does the Minister. That's how we need to see this. So in the context of this emergency legislation for the elections, the Minister has made it clear: it is not possible now. Then we should have the discussion of principle together as indicated by GroenLinks. Then the argument of logistical problems towards, for example, the Party for Animals can of course never apply again if a letter vote is chosen. Then it's clear what's going on. The Minister has also made it clear why it is not possible for vulnerable people. Our population registers rightly do not identify who is vulnerable and who is not, and otherwise you should leave it to the president of the polling station, who is giving you an impossible task. So there too the VVD follows the minister. By the way, it is a good thing that both the SP and the Party for Animals have asked us to look at all the scenarios together; also the scenario of postponement. I just said it in an interrupting debate. No misunderstanding: although I already dream not only of Rutte IV, but also of Rutte V and of Rutte VI, I think that the elections should continue. Just as a government party, just as a party that is now a carrier or carrier. The bearer of the government must strive to ensure that elections continue so that the people can express their opinion on the policy in recent times. It is good that the Minister investigates scenarios and it is good that questions are asked as then. After all, we do not know what will happen in two weeks' time, Mr Janssen van de SP said that even in six, seven weeks or 50 days' time, to quote the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u179	If you finish your speech first, we will go to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is also good that the Minister states that 15 and 16 March are intended as days for the vulnerable, but that this is only a purpose. Anyone can vote on 15 and 16 March, again here to prevent the president of a polling station from making choices: come back next Wednesday, and you can go in now. You can't ask a chairman to do that. I understand the fears that live there. I was just standing here, and as always, there was a fantastic cleaning here by one of the messengers. I'm standing here in some kind of voting booth. After each vote, in this case, the floor shall be completely cleaned and disinfected. I understand the fears that people have for casting their voices. I believe that this is well provided for by the combination of the extension of voting by authorisation and the possibility of voting by letter as the other rules laid down in the laws and regulations. The question has rightly been asked, also from the VVD towards the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because that is also part of the development of a scenario which, if unexpectedly on 9 February, does not turn out to be 9 February, is the end of the curfew, but if that curfew still applies on 15, 16 and 17 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u181	Your speaking time has been up for a while, Mr. Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u182	And that is why I am going to conclude, Mr President, with a compliment to those thousands of people who are currently preparing for the elections. Those thousands of people make it possible for there to be elections on 15, 16 and 17 March. I also admire the mayors and their support for the sacred right of elections in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u183	Thank you. We have time for a few short interruptions, so just one question. The Minister has indicated that he still has to go to another meeting. Go ahead, Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, it's not February 9th, it's February 10th. Anyway... I hear the cry that 'emergency breaks law' would not apply because emergency measures are now being taken, emergency laws are being adopted. Can I have a brief reflection on all the violations of fundamental rights that have taken place recently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u185	As a parliament, both on the other side and on this side, we have adopted certain laws of necessity which give a legal basis to the policy proposed by the cabinet by you, by me and by our colleagues. We are also doing this in the context of this, even when it comes to introducing, for example, curfew. I'm sure that's just the law. Even more: at the curfew there was no need for permission from the House of Representatives at all, because that was already laid down in the law. The government has even gone beyond what was necessary to implement that measure. All the measures taken recently have been implemented either on the basis of existing laws and regulations or on the basis of emergency legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u186	Thank you. Mrs Baay, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u187	Finally, Mr President. This means, however, that emergency measures must have had a legal basis, because the laws previously in force did not have the opening up to restrict fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u188	Thank you. Mr Nicolaï, a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With Mr Van der Burg, I believe that all the groups here want the elections to continue. I've heard that everywhere. Suppose the development is such and the OMT's advice is such that we simply cannot escape it from being postponed. Is the Group of the Party of European Socialists then prepared to look at the fundamental question of voting in writing during that delay? Then perhaps we can still arrange that, if the elections take place on the deferred date, the letter vote may be open to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u190	I think we should go very far in order to allow the elections to continue. I remember the discussion that took place shortly after 6 May 2002, when one of the list leaders was murdered. That had a huge impact on Dutch society. Also then, I remember saying, nine days later, we allowed the elections to continue. We must do everything we can to ensure that the elections continue. If we have to postpone the elections, for whatever reason, then you must do so as little as possible. Some of the Minister's argument concerning the logistical problems will then lapse. If it is postponed for two months, it gets 60 or 61 days of profit. That could play along.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u192	The discussion of principle should not take place in relation to the 2021 elections. As Mr Ganzevoort has said, we must carry it together for all the elections that will be held in the coming decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u193	Thank you. Finally, Mr Rombouts has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government must first of all make room for those who have to do the actual work and, secondly, promote their cooperation. Our group initially did not intend to speak here today. It could and can still support the cabinet's approach to ensuring that the elections on 17 March run smoothly and as safely as possible. Three days the opportunity to vote instead of one, the possibility for 70-plussers to vote by letter and three permissions to vote for someone else instead of two: here are the three most important measures by which, in our opinion, the Cabinet has struck a subtle balance between the health risks of, in particular, the elderly and vulnerable voters and, on the other hand, the feasibility of the proposed measures by the municipalities. About the latter, that subtle balance, his friend and enemy agree. The Council of State had no comments. The House of Representatives approved the proposals almost unanimously. The Association of Dutch Municipalities has been able to make good agreements with this Minister about the feasibility of the measures and the reimbursement of the additional costs. And the ANBO and the VGN have also shown no hell or damnation about the proposals. No one would have been surprised, therefore, if this Chamber had chosen to hammer this proposal, especially since there was a great hurry. The cabinet speaks in our direction of "extremely urgent." Understandably, because the elections are in seven weeks' time. Therefore, Mr President, do not expect a question from my group to this Minister, at most an incentive to act in the spirit of Professor Gabriel van den Brink's quote that I just used at the beginning: give room to those who have to do the actual work, in this case the municipalities, and promote this cooperation. In this case, it means that good ideas are taken from each other, ideas as laid down in motions in the House of Representatives: about as little exitpolls as possible, about post-processing à la mourning post, about polling stations in the open air. And so I add myself as a Bosschenaar, which you are a little less proud of today than the day before yesterday, also think of drive-in polls in parking lots or in large halls, as successfully tried out two months ago during the reclassification elections in my neighboring municipality of Vught. Mr. Chairman. My group, like Mr Van der Burg, would like to begin by expressing its support for all those Dutch who are prepared to populate the polling stations and do the actual work during this time of Corona, but also to congratulate the Cabinet on its approach so far. My group would like to hear from the Minister, Mr van den Brink, that is one question - how, in the light of Professor Van den Brink's statement, she will organise her consultation with the municipalities in the coming weeks: to give space and promote cooperation in order to ensure that as few people as possible feel prevented from going to the polls during this pandemic. 'Cause that's what we're gonna be talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? Mr Van Hattem has another interruption to Mr Rombouts. One question, please, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I have put the question to almost everyone who was not clear about it, I also ask Mr Rombouts: do you agree that the elections on 17 March should continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u197	Mr. Chairman, may I answer with a counter-question? How is it that Mr Van Hattem, whom I have seen so many times interrupting in this house, explicitly asks one question to all the groups? What kind of state-law conscience is torturing him like that? Or is his political conscience a bit troubling him in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u198	Unfortunately, I'm not going to allow any more interruptions, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u199	The elections must continue, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u200	Then I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for a lunch break until 1.30 p.m.
