ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin with the debate on the development of the coronavirus. I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD as the first speaker. I want to meet with you four questions in the first term. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The still high number of positive tests and the emergence of worrying new variants of the coronavirus require the cabinet to take even more far-reaching measures, additional measures in which, of course, nobody is going to jump. The mutating virus is and remains a huge threat to our public health. With that threat, the signal readings are far out of sight. Our defense strategy is also in behavior. With new variants on the lurk, the pressure on the care will only increase. We now have less vision and insight into the virus with the new variants and so something has to be done. Mr. Chairman. The VVD sees a curfew as a very heavy one, but with pain in the heart it is necessary to take action. And yes, I understand that there is a lot of feeling and emotion involved in such a measure, including in my group. But fortunately, I also see understanding and acceptance in society. And yes, I also understand that the cabinet is introducing this measure now, precisely to prevent worse; proactively rather than reactively after we have flown further off the bend because of many more infections, because of those infectious variants. Mr. Chairman. A curfew and a further limitation of visitation to one person are huge steps, but we have to do this, for example for our children. The long closing of schools has a big effect on our children. Their learning retardation is getting bigger and bigger. Vulnerable children are becoming even more vulnerable. It is precisely because we have many questions from our society that the cabinet also has a duty to explain the usefulness, necessity and effectiveness of the measures. It requires more communication than it has so far. Such a curfew also calls for appropriate solutions for people who may be in trouble, for clarity and clarity for those who, because of their work, care or other necessities, have to be outdoors. Mr. Chairman. The VVD welcomes the presentation of a broader package of measures, but the existing measures should also be better respected. The VVD finds it unacceptable that there are still employers asking their employees to come to work if they can also work at home. The cabinet announces once again that employers should be advised to comply more closely with homework. This should really be a little bit tighter. Where necessary, action can and should be stepped up. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that passengers on incoming flights from countries at risk will be subject to stricter controls, but why do we not have these checks on other transport with which one can enter the Netherlands? The VVD likes to see this happen. We would also like to see an effect of the quarantine obligation soon. The intention has been there for months now, I think we were already talking about it in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u3	We agree with the VVD that it is very harsh to ask such far-reaching things from people while at the same time you see that there are indeed companies, shops, offices that simply force their staff to come and work while they can also work at home. So I am pleased that the VVD is also calling on the cabinet to go much more firmly into that, but that is not the case for the time being. So I would like to hear from the VVD what she is thinking about in concrete terms. What should happen then? What is happening now is far too non-committal, while at the same time a lot of ordinary people are being asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u4	I can imagine that, for example, the inspection SZW, as I believe it is called, will be more robust. In the spring and already in the autumn we have seen that some companies have indeed acted and that business premises have also been closed. That's what the Cabinet had announced. If there are multiple infections, an employer also runs the risk of closing the property. As far as we are concerned, however, the inspection may look a little harder and firmer and engage in conversation and possibly also close, because when I see how much traffic there is on the road, when I see how many cars are parked on business and office premises, that's just a lot, too much. So something must be done about that, because we know that 16%, 17% of the infections occur at work. And that's gotta go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u5	Absolutely right. Is the VVD therefore prepared, if this inspection is indeed to be maintained more firmly and should say more clearly that there will be heavy fines for companies, to invest more urgently in that inspection SZW, so that it can be maintained properly? We all know that capacity is limited there. If we really want to get serious about this, we must do so, because the parking lots, the motorways and the workplaces are still too full, then we must invest seriously in this too. Is the VVD prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u6	I don't know the signals from the inspection that they don't have the capacity. I do know that we have agreed with this cabinet that we will do what is necessary. It has been said on many fronts that money cannot necessarily be an issue. So if it is necessary, then we have to talk about this and I assume that the cabinet is also taking action, but I do not know those signals. We share the view that the inspection should be more robust where it can and where it should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u7	There is a great deal of attention to curfew, but I have a question about another measure which is also quite radical, namely limiting the visit of two people to one person. If a couple from Zoetermeer wants to visit a daughter in Drachten who they have not spoken for a long time, does Mr Veldman think it reasonable that only the man or the woman can go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u8	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that this leads to very annoying and painful situations and that you do not really want to do so. But that's basically the fact that we don't want to have a curfew with each other. Nobody wants that, you don't, I don't, nobody in this country. At the same time, we do have a responsibility to take care of our public health. And yes, then the combination of curfew and limiting the visit to one is a very painful one, but I think that we should limit as many contacts as possible. And this is part of it. We need to reduce the number of contacts that people have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u9	I understand that thought, but at the same time we have to look at the human measure in what it means. I am concerned that a lot of people who are following the advice of the visit are going to say: but I do not think this is reasonable anymore. I'm worried about that. I believe that these opinions should be thought through so that they can be respected as much as possible. Isn't it much more logical, then?I thought that in the media I saw it in the Labour Party, among other things, to look much more closely from a household? Then a couple can easily visit a child. It is much more important that people from all kinds of different households do not come together. Isn't that much more logical?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u10	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that we must look at the human dimension, the human dimension now and the human dimension in the longer term in everything we do and in every measure we take. If you ask me honestly, in all the measures that have been taken so far, closing schools is much more painful and painful than returning the visit to one person. Vulnerable children are home now. If these measures can help to ensure that schools are able to open up again, then I really prefer to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u11	I see you standing there, Mrs Ouwehand, but I understand that you want to say something at the end of the speech. The same applies to Mr Kuzu. Proceed, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr. Chairman. The uncertainties surrounding the new variants seriously endanger the view of the virus. Mr Van Dissel said yesterday that research should be carried out into the mutations from Brazil and South Africa, including the effects of vaccines. Does that happen now and when do we hear more about it? What about the infectiousness and the spread of the British variant among children? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we have now started the vaccinations. Last week, the Health Council's advice came on the Moderna vaccine. We are pleased to see that vaccination is a high level. However, the rapid vaccination of general practitioners seems very good. They too are in the front line and see many patients first. But we also use stings that serve the second dose of others. The Minister is now going to do this with the Pfizer vaccine. This decision was made on the basis of confidence that the next deliveries will arrive on time, while the vaccination strategy and implementation depend on the delivery schedules. The Minister is deliberately taking a dangerous risk with this. How does the Minister anticipate the risks that are now being taken with the use of the stock? What plan is there if it cannot be delivered in time or if the volume of delivery is smaller than previously communicated? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you, Mr President. My chairman... that's you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u14	Yeah, I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yes, you are. I'm glad you're back. Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u16	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u17	I wanted to say "my question." My question to the VVD Group is as follows. I think it is true that no one wants curfew and that there is a direct responsibility to weigh well what wisdom is when the situation is as it is today. But there is also a context in which this takes place. And those two are not separate from each other. We have been struggling with this virus for almost a year, and the VVD has not shown in any way that, except for the direct responsibility to protect public health once that crisis is there, they feel a broader responsibility to ensure that people are protected in their health. I don't think you can separate that from each other. Psychologists warn us that it only works and that you only have support if the policy is fair and consistent. Within this context, I miss the support of the VVD for good prevention and for addressing other sectors that can help to protect health. In that light, I ask what step the VVD is going to take, now that it is asking citizens to accept a curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mrs Ouwehand draws the acute crisis in which we are now sitting to a very broad story, where you could contribute to our public health in the full breadth of all areas that the government can do something about. Yes, you have the responsibility as a government, but I say above all that as a person you also have a responsibility for how healthy you live. I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that you could make different choices in that regard than there have been for the past four years. And what's the beauty? In a few weeks, on 17 March, we will have elections and then the whole of the Netherlands will be able to choose again which party they give their vote and to whom they entrust to deal with public health in the right way and in full width.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u19	I note that the VVD is beating all the calls from doctors, from people in care and from enforcers when it comes to risks to public health and burdening care and police in the slightly longer term and only acts when it is in your face. Then it is even prepared to seriously interfere with the essential needs of people. That may be necessary, but not if you keep walking away from that other responsibility to protect public health in a broad sense. That's where the VVD really failed the whole Corona Year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u20	That seems to me to be a bit off, especially given that, where you could possibly take more steps to ensure that people live healthier lives, this really does not solve the acute crisis in which we are now and will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u21	I think everyone in the Netherlands agrees that we need to fight the virus. But we must fight the virus effectively and with measures that are proportionate. Now the VVD indicates that it does not want curfew, but that it is necessary. Scientific literature clearly indicates that lockdown measures, such as curfews, are effective when there is support, when you look at it in conjunction with other aspects, such as the psychological state of the population and the effects on the economy. Your blind eye to that public health aspect is therefore not effective enough at the moment. What's the VVD's response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u22	That I agree with Mr Kuzu that you should always look at what measures you can take and what the effect of these measures is in the full breadth of our society. And yes, I agree with him that a number of measures that we already know and a number of measures that are now on the table will have an even stronger effect. But I also hold Mr Kuzu in mind the images from London, the images from Portugal, where ambulances line up in front of the hospital because they cannot get rid of their patients. I think Mr Kuzu is right in saying that, where we were all shocked last year by the measures we took in March, 238 people were in the ICU on 18 March last year and 408 people in the hospital. Yesterday, 679 people were in the ICU and 1,709 people were in the hospital. That's quite a difference. We now also know that there are mutations of the virus that may be up to 30% more contagious. Mr Van Dissel explained again yesterday that the British variant probably has an R-value of 1.3. You can't just look away and think, "We're not doing anything for a while." I do not want to get involved in situations like those in London or Portugal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u23	No political party here in the Chamber ignores the images and the terrible situations. At the same time, some of the countries mentioned by Mr Veldman have introduced the draconian measure of curfew. Let me give you another example. France has introduced the curfew. What did we see in France? That the figures initially fell enormously. At the time the curfew was lifted, we saw another significant increase in the R-value. Germany does not allow the measure to continue because it considers it proportionate. Other countries that already introduced curfews during the first wave also had a second wave. They've had an overload of hospitals and intensive cares. The measure is therefore not effective and proportionate. You're blind staring at images is one. Looking at numbers and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr. Kuzu, try to keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u25	I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. Looking at the way this works out on the population is a second. I note that the VVD has a imbalance in that. That is not good for the condition of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u26	That's not a question, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u27	I share Mr Kuzu's observation that there are a number of countries which have introduced a curfew at the time when things had already got out of hand. Then you're too late. I am very glad that this cabinet says: let's do it on time. I share Mr Kuzu's observation that there was a dip in France at the curfew it had introduced, and that the number of infections then increased again. Perhaps Mr Kuzu shares with me that France has perhaps scaled down some ill-thought-out measures, and that everyone has thought too easily: the virus is gone and we can get out again, as a number of people here said about our summer. I can add the question to the cabinet, so thank you for this interruption to ensure that these measures are properly scaled up. I am glad that yesterday the cabinet said that the schools are at the forefront of this and that they will be the first to open again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u28	Yesterday we heard from Jaap van Dissel that the curfew according to Brauner's study, I believe, is 41 studies which have a very marginal effect on the R-value, namely between 8% and 13%, and then only in combination with all kinds of other measures. You're from the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. If, therefore, this measure is intrinsically ineffective and even symbolically referred to by epidemiologists, how can you take such a radical measure or support it, without it actually having any effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u29	In my view, Mr Van Dissel did not say that this measure had no effect. I think he has said that you cannot calculate the effect of this measure until the decimal point, and that you should always see it in conjunction with other measures. I think it is quite a lot to describe the effect of 8% to 13% as marginal. It depends on what you put that on. When I tell people that their salary goes up or down by 8% to 13%, I'm sure I'll get a reaction. That's what I'm expecting on this one. An impact of 8% to 13% of this measure is significant. If you see it in combination with the rest, I hope we get the effect that we want to achieve in the end. That is that fewer contacts reduce the number of infections and we get into safer waters, just when more contagious variants come our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u30	Yes, it seems to me that 8% to 13% combined with all kinds of other measures as an effect on the R-value...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u31	No, adding this measure will have an effect of 8% to 13%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u32	No, in combination with other values. Anyway, you'll always have to relate that to the collateral damage. Have you in any case identified the collateral damage that will result from this very marginal, symbolic measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u33	I have a picture of the collateral damage we get as a society if we end up in a situation like London or Portugal, where people are in an ambulance, they don't get into the hospital while they're in respiratory distress and they're fighting for their lives. I wouldn't want that consequence. Maybe Mr Van Haga wants it, but I don't want it. So I am very pleased that the cabinet wants to take additional measures proactively. Am I pleased with the measures? No, I just said that, it's with heart pain. But we see it as necessary, precisely because we want to avoid worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u34	That was not an answer to my question. The question was: do you have an idea of the collateral damage of this marginal measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u35	I do not agree with Mr Van Haga that it is a marginal measure. I see what kind of society we are now in: children are at home and cannot go to school, children are given their education via the Internet, where help is needed from parents, but what is not optimal and good everywhere. I'll say it nicely. Vulnerable children are still lagging behind. That collateral damage is hardly gonna be calculated, but we're gonna see it over the next few years. That's bad; that's what I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u36	Last question, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u37	I still don't have an answer. Have you identified the economic, medical, social and cultural collateral damage of this measure, regardless of whether it is marginal or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u38	There will be. But if Mr Van Haga wants to calculate that to the decimal point, then we are still weeks and months away from getting that right in the picture. The point is that we do what is necessary and that we take into account the children who are now at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u40	I'm heartened by that. We have something to do here and to take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u42	Madam President. The Netherlands already has one of Europe's strictest lockdowns. Most shops are closed, the hospitality is closed, people work massively at home, the schools are closed, and we may meet at home and outside but with a limited number. It's driving the Netherlands crazy now. But it's not enough for Prime Minister Rutte; he puts a thousand more shovels on top and now comes with a curfew. Of course, a outgoing cabinet should also be able to take measures against corona, but that they want to introduce such an extreme measure into that status, my group considers inappropriate, especially now that the cabinet in missionary status is faced with the Wilders motion that has been adopted not to introduce curfew. Mr. Chairman. It is a sign of total impotence, including panic, of a Prime Minister who is once again out of order. To compensate for his own failure in the corona approach, he now comes up with one of the most far-reaching limitations of our freedom that you can imagine: locking people in their homes, where the government decides when and what time you can go out. It's unbelievable. We're being imprisoned at home under orders from Mark Rutte. If you leave your front door without his permission, you'll get a fine. We're losing our freedom massively, and that's not a party. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. Mr. Chairman. This outgoing cabinet, this prime minister, is losing popular support for the corona approach. That is very unwise, because corona is indeed a serious problem. The logic of this cabinet is also far from clear. Since the discovery of the mutated British variant of the virus, about ten aircraft a day have landed at Schiphol Airport from the United Kingdom, with thousands of people on board. Until today nothing was done about it; it cannot be described with a pen. In the meantime, this cabinet has not only started to vaccinate voluntarily, but is still dangling the Netherlands at the bottom of the world ranking list, with a vaccination rate of 0.5%. It is very slow, while the voluntary vaccination of people is, of course, the solution to get our freedom back. This cabinet is delivering an absolute error there. The whole of the Netherlands must now pay a huge price for this blunder, with the excuse that the impact of vaccination is minimal. A scandal! The only thing that works minimally here is this cabinet. If, in December, the cabinet had started to vaccinate vulnerable people on a voluntary basis, it would have been much better for us. If they had immediately started to vaccinate those 3 million people, if they wanted to, they have an increased risk of a severe course of corona; that's many 60-plussers.............................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. The blackest scenario assumes that at the beginning of May there are twice as many corona patients in the hospital as they are now. We can prevent that, if we have skimped the vaccination of those 60-plussers and people with medical indications well before that. And you can, because you're getting 7.2 million vaccines this quarter. Make sure that group has been vaccinated by the end of this quarter. Then that can and then leads to a reduction of the pressure on the ic's. Madam President. That makes a curfew completely unnecessary. I absolutely don't want curfew. The curfew proposed by the cabinet is also poorly substantiated. It's an disproportionate measure, the effects are marginal and it's just gossip. It's gossip. For example, one of the scientific studies cited has not even been peer-reviewed, i.e. confirmed by fellow researchers. It is also incomprehensible that the cabinet does not first try with all the other proposed measures, such as a flight ban, limiting the visit to one person, the funeral with up to 50 guests and the quarantine obligation. Why not wait for that to work first, and why immediately give the blunt axe without giving those measures a chance? Mr President, I will conclude. I urge the Cabinet, with the utmost urgency, not to introduce that curfew and to respect the vote of this Chamber, which in November last year voted by a majority in favour of my motion that it does not want curfew. That, Mr. Rutte, is called democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr. Chairman. The advance of the British mutation of the coronavirus forces us to take additional measures. This is not only true in the Netherlands; all the countries around us are aware of this. It is as Ernst Kuipers said in the briefing last week: no care system is otherwise resistant to the infection of the mutated virus. It is very important that we delay the dominance of the British variant for as long as possible, so that as many people as possible can be vaccinated in the coming period. I understand very well that people experience the measures that have been announced as a blow and that they are angry about it, or that they feel that they are being presented because others have not complied with measures. However, it is simply the case that the mutated virus is so contagious that everything we have done so far is no longer sufficient. The cabinet will also have to give people perspective, because you notice metal fatigue in society about corona measures. At the same time, more is needed. But what is the perspective that is offered to people, in the sense that they are doing more now so that there will be more space later? Will the Prime Minister be able to comment on that in a moment? The measures announced are firm. But my group sees the need, not the joy, but we see the need and support the tightening-up. But I do have questions. There will be a flight ban on aircraft from the UK and further travel restrictions. But what about others? What about the Eurostar and the Thalys? Mr Veldman just asked about this; what happens with that? Mr Veldman and Mr Marijnissen had just had an interruption debate on employers. I think that is a very fair question, because I find the letter too vague on this point. We say, "We need a flight ban and we need a curfew," but we're in traffic in the morning, and we're getting signals from employees saying, "I'm being forced to go to work." Then something goes wrong when we all say "homework should be the norm." What is going to happen here, and what is going to happen to employers who unnecessarily force their employees to go to work, when that is not really necessary, and could work at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u45	Mrs Ploumen and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u46	I would like to go back to the beginning of Mr Heerma's speech, in which he talked about the need to offer people a perspective. He has done so before, and I think we have put forward proposals for this together before. But whether there is a curfew or not, my group believes that we really need a social rescue plan, with concrete action points. Students can't do their exams. People sit at home lonely. I could imagine that Mr Heerma might think along the same lines. How does he see that? Does he see that need?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u47	It is very good that Mrs Ploumen is asking this question. Actually, I meant something else, but I also think this is important. Prospective bidding is also about light at the end of the tunnel. We are doing this so that we do not burden care and that vulnerable people are protected, but also because then we can be more freer. But Mrs Ploumen is right: the PvdA and the CDA, but in fact all the parties here have made a lot of proposals for vulnerable groups, whether they are poverty or homelessness. Last week we also made several proposals on education. One of the things my group is most concerned about is the learning disadvantages that arise. We've made proposals for that. The cabinet has written in the letter, also in response to the proposals made, that more needs to be done here. But that must be done quickly. I think we'll have a note-and-talk with Minister Slob next week. So more needs to be done. That will have to be made concrete. In this letter, also in response to requests from the Chamber, there is a reference to the money allocated, for example, to support vulnerable young people. If Mrs Ploumen has additional proposals and mentions them in this debate, I will always look at them with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u48	Good. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u49	The trade union FNV has set up a hotline for workers who are forced to come to work anyway. Mr Heerma spoke about this. Reports showed, among other things, that staff at shops such as the Wibra, but I also believe the H&M and Zara, should simply come, while the case is closed. This leads to more people being present in the shop at that time than there should have been, according to the corona measures, to customers. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that, at the time we are about to ask so many people and there would be such an enormous restriction on the freedom of people, it is really totally unacceptable that these kinds of companies and these kinds of shops still operate in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u50	I would first like to make a point about Mrs Marijnissen's intervention. We'll do this in front of each other. There's no cabinet that says we're doing this because we want to. We need to take those measures to protect the vulnerable and the care. That's why this is necessary. In general, however, I very much agree with Mrs Marijnissen. If you see the gravity of the measures that need to be taken now because of the British variant, I find the passage in the letter on what employers are asked to do too vague and too limited. That's why I asked. If there are signs of this kind, I think that means that we should be more binding on employers. There really needs to be work at home. It can't be that you're forcing employees to come, even though they could work very well at home. The example quoted by Mrs Marijnissen seems very undesirable to me. I think I've heard the SP argue for a hotline before. The reporting is now done via the FNV. I would also like to ask the cabinet, in line with what Mrs Marijnissen says, what can happen from the cabinet to make reporting of abuses more easily accessible so that action can be taken. The SZW Inspection should be able to address employers who force their employees into unsafe situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u51	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u52	As far as the cabinet is concerned, we really do not have enough in relation to what we are going to ask people. Mr Heerma says that the letter was too vague on that point. It certainly was, but as far as we are concerned, it went a lot further and the letter was really not enough. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that there should indeed be a clear hotline at the Labour Inspectorate, where workers are called to report, and that there should be a team there that can move quickly and pay out heavy fines to companies that go wrong? Does he agree with me that there really needs to be a firm commitment to enforcement in all those companies that simply ignore the corona rules, while so much of society is being asked in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u53	That's what I just tried to ask. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that reporting abuses should be accessible and that the inspection SZW has a central role to play in this. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen and the SP that a hotline there and, above all, enforcement after a notification are very important. I am very curious whether the cabinet is prepared to do more than what is in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u54	Here's what I'm wondering. As far as we are concerned, the CDA is right to point out that in this context it is not possible to oblige people to work. How does the CDA view the pressure exerted by the NVWA, a public body in any case, on private inspectors and vulnerable staff in the slaughterhouse to come to work in particular because the pig sector is struggling? I brought that up last week. The cabinet wisely keeps its mouth shut about this, because it is, of course, a painful subject. But if you're going to test in the slaughterhouses, the contagion rates are much higher than the average. How's the CDA looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u55	I missed this question last week. If that was requested last week by the Animal Party, I think your colleague, Mr Van Esch, was present at the debate last week, then we need an answer. But employers really cannot force their staff to go to work for work that can happen at home and otherwise lead to unsafe situations. I would like to read what Mrs Ouwehand has in her hand so soon after my term. Then I can take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u57	I think we all get a lot of emails and questions about curfew. Many people ask for criteria and exceptions. I think it is very important that the cabinet keeps communicating clearly and repeatedly what is happening, why it is doing so and why it is so important to comply with the measures. I saw that yesterday in the letter it said that the exams in education would be excluded. Then came a letter stating that it wasn't. My question is: how about that? Why was that first chosen and then not? Can the cabinet explain that? There are many questions about this in the field of education. Keeping communicating is more important. Look at compliance with the most basic rules, such as keeping away and washing hands. The extent to which people adhere to them is becoming less and less. With the infectiousness of this variant, additional measures are needed and we support them too, but these basic measures will also have to be complied with more. What is the government going to do in the coming weeks to communicate even more and to make it clear that people have to stick to the simplest things, such as keeping their distance, washing hands, etc.? Following on from Mr Veldman, I would also like to ask what is going on with the investigation into the infectiousness of the British variant among children. The closing down of primary schools is the measure that I find most intense. This measure has a huge impact on young families. But think also of the educational disadvantages that children face. I know we talk a lot about curfew here, but closing the schools is the measure that feels the hardest for my group and myself. Are those schools really opening on February 8th? How does what we do now contribute to this? Mr President, I see that my time is up, so I am going to say something very briefly about the debate we had before and what I saw in the letter. Last week we had the debate here about Pfizer and Moderna. The question was whether you couldn't have a larger interval between the first and second shots. Mr Wilders was the most explicit about this. The cabinet now seems to be moving to six weeks. My question is: can it really be safe? My second question is: how much additional vaccinations and puncture capacity will that yield in the next week in the race against the clock that is now in place with the British variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u58	I welcome Mr Heerma's firm words about the employers who do not give at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u59	Not all employers don't give at home, but too little is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u60	Look at Zara. I also wanted to quote that example. Some of these employers simply applied for NOW support. So, on the one hand, they keep their hands up with the government for money brought up by all taxpayers. It is right that there should be support. There will be another support package later; we will support that too. But then they just let their employees come to the store. I would say that companies that do so and do not comply with it can repay it all. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u61	I do not know whether I think it is wise to withdraw all kinds of emergency aid with the current economic figures, which could bankrupt all kinds of companies and lose all these people's jobs. So I don't know if I'm gonna go with that right away. But I do understand Mr. Klaver's feeling. You get support and you still force your employees to come. If this leads to unsafe situations and if we ask so many questions from society and sectors, employers can be expected to facilitate work at home wherever possible. I think the letter on that point is too vague. More needs to be done. I think Mr Marijnissen's suggestions on a hotline and penalties are very sensible. I'm curious to hear the government's response. But it's too fast for me to threaten now with: otherwise we're going to get all the money back. I really don't know if that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u62	I would like to talk about whether it is sensible, but I am concerned about the attitude. We take a lot of freedom-limiting measures: schools are now closed, it's about curfew, people have been at home for a long time. The number of suicides is increasing, especially among young people. When I talk about companies receiving government support and not cooperating with the rules, even more so that are a threat to society, and I say that it seems to me to be a good idea for them to repay that support, that seems to me to be quite proportional. I would like to continue talking about how reasonable that is and whether that really fits, but I really think there is a difference in how easy it is to say 'no', I should not say 'no' in the firmness with which we have taken measures that affect especially young people and children, and the doubt that we have now about how hard we can deal with these companies. I would say that we cannot tackle these companies firmly enough, not if they make a small mistake, but if they deliberately hold their hand on the one hand and violate the rules on the other. That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u63	I agree on the attitude. If you accept support without need and if you do things with a risk to public health and your employees that are not needed, then that is reprehensible. That is why I ask the cabinet to take a firm stand against this. At the same time, we are not taking easy measures. It's not easy for business either. There are a lot of entrepreneurs who are trying to keep their heads above water at all, with best intentions for their staff, saying too easily: the companies are doing it wrong. That is why, in the first words of Mr Klaver, I said non-verbally that I do not agree with that. We must also differentiate between those who want to do good and those who do bad. There are a lot of entrepreneurs, whoever the water is on the lips, who really try to do everything as well as possible with the best intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u64	Third question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u65	This is a general answer, because, of course, I fully agree with it. It wasn't for nothing that I put it differently. I'm not interested in benevolent entrepreneurs. I think the Chamber has long demonstrated that we are doing everything we can to support it. It's not the little entrepreneurs. This is about the big companies that deliberately bring in their employees and get NOW support on the other hand. We act so firmly to young people: they can't go outside and they can't go to school. I can see that strength is really lacking in the government's approach. I'd like to hang out with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u66	Look, I think the examples are both with the big and small companies. There are also large companies that can do more to support their staff in working at home, because they simply have the money to do so, which some SMEs find much more difficult. So I do not agree if there is a difference by saying: the big companies are doing badly and the small ones are doing well. But it is the basic attitude that I think is adopted here by the VVD, the SP, the CDA and now also by GroenLinks. More needs to be done with employers who deliberately force their staff to come and work at home. We need to step up our efforts to this end. I think we share that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u68	Mr. Chairman. We see an effect of the lockdown: the decline of the infections has been deployed. But there are still measures to be taken. That feels strange, but the strong advance of the British variant is forcing this and there is a great desire to open the schools as safely as possible. That is why my group supports many of the new measures. But the cabinet wants to put an extra shovel on it: a curfew. The most far-reaching measure considered so far. Let me be honest: my group does not think that this is an easy choice. Last week I said in the debate: "A curfew? Don't do it now!" There's reason to be more worried now than last week. This is evident from the OMT opinion and from what many experts say. But the question is whether the reason is enough for a curfew. With that question we struggle, because with a curfew we limit freedom. Many people are concerned about this, such as living alone, parents who have to combine home education with work or students who follow a study behind their screen. They may not be able to go out in the evening for walking, sports or shopping. Many young people are also concerned, for example with the youth organisations of D66, GroenLinks and the VVD. They highlight the dangers to mental health and the impact of lack of perspective. Has the cabinet also considered what a curfew does for the support and for mental health? Has the cabinet also considered a night clock or curfew from 10:00 p.m., precisely because of the negative effects on society when curfew starts early? Mr. Chairman. In addition, there is the question of how effective the curfew is. Is that gonna help us get our freedom back sooner? There is uncertainty about this too. Is the Prime Minister sure that curfew will have sufficient effect in itself? Is that curfew indispensable to press the R-value below 1? When does the cabinet want to scale down at all? How hard is February 9th as an end date? Mr. Chairman. Finally, at the curfew point: the behavioral unit of the RIVM states that the effectiveness of the curfew also depends on enforcement. That's tricky, and the mayors also report Bruls and Van Zanen. The police can't get the schedules around already. Usually police work comes along. How can a curfew be maintained? What are the consequences for daylight security when cops have to go out on the streets especially at night?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u69	I see Mr Wilders, Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u70	A curfew is unnecessary, because it has hardly any effect. A curfew is disruptive, because it removes people's freedom. A curfew is nonsense, because if the cabinet had started vaccinating the vulnerable sooner or had not landed a plane from the United Kingdom in the last month, we would have had thousands fewer people from England here and this would have been unnecessary. A curfew is the worst thing there is. D66 supported me as the only coalition party in November to stop that curfew. A week ago, I said it out of my mind; it could also have been two weeks to ask Mr. Jetten: Mr. Jetten, if we are not in the situation that the water really is here, with those ambulances in traffic jams for the hospitals and with people who are eating for air, where we have seen these horrible images from England, are you still on my side to stop that curfew from being a liberal guy? Your answer was: sure, Mr. Wilders, sure. Is that "sure" still there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u71	I agree with a lot of things Mr Wilders says. Yeah, if we had started a lot of cases earlier, we probably wouldn't have had this question before us right now. If we had started vaccination earlier, if we had the supplies, if we had stopped those fires from Britain earlier, we might not have come to this point. That is why I have also argued in the previous debate and in previous debates, in particular: do not import all kinds of new changes into the Netherlands. But the reality is, of course, that it did. The OMT has now said: if we are not careful, the British variant in the Netherlands will become dominant and we will have a real third wave in the Netherlands in a few weeks' time. That now poses the dilemma: do we think that curfew at the moment is a proportional scoop on top of all the other measures in the lockdown? Quite frankly, my group is simply struggling with that. That is why I have just asked a lot of questions to the cabinet about the measure, about the expected effect and about whether you can maintain it properly. I would also like to hear those answers from the cabinet in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u72	That's different from last week. I am not talking about November; I am talking about a week ago. So everything you're saying now, you knew about a week ago. When it comes to what might happen... You know, that code black with the uh... what is it? 1,250 people with covid on the ic's would take place in May. We can, of course, and we must prevent that. We can prevent that by using the 7.2 million vaccines that Minister De Jonge expects this quarter for those vulnerable people very quickly. But we can also say that all the measures taken by the cabinet, which are probably far more effective according to the figures and the experts than that curfew, from the quarantine to finally that flight ban, to ensure that people can come home less often, to a lesser extent. You could have said: let's start with that. Let's start with the most vulnerable people who want to vaccinate voluntarily. Let's start with that whole package that the cabinet presents today minus the curfew. Again, the curfew is a relatively small part of that. Let's see if that works first. It's not the middle of May. I expected from you in a week that you would still be on my side. That you would say: of course, Mr Wilders, D66 is still against that curfew; let's try everything else before we use that horse medicine. Why don't you tell me? That hasn't changed in a week, has it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u73	I'm still not excited about curfew. I share with Mr Wilders that it is a very great restriction of freedom. We just haven't seen that before in this pandemic year we've been through together. In the debate last week, we did not have a clear OMT opinion that really warns of the British mutation that could become dominant in the Netherlands. I find that really new information compared to last week. We must seriously consider that of the most important experts in this pandemic. I also see that in the letter the cabinet made a number of movements that were not possible last week. I have tabled a motion with Mr Klaver for a stronger flight ban and for the testing of all passengers arriving in the Netherlands at the airport. I see that the cabinet has made a move towards Mr Wilders when it comes to the time between the first and the second shot, so that you can increase the vaccination rate. I didn't just ask the question for nothing: with everything else being done, is that curfew really still indispensable to keep the R below 1 in the next few weeks? I think that is a very important question for the cabinet. Mr President, if I may. What is the biggest dilemma for me and my group is the 8% to 13% effectiveness of curfew. That's not nothing. That is indeed an effect, also in relation to other measures we have taken over the past year. But we also have to weigh the other side of the coin: what is the impact on people's social well-being, the mental health of a lot of people who are already having a very hard time? Hence my questions. Why does the cabinet opt for 8.30 p.m. and not, like many other European countries, for 10 p.m. or even as in Flanders, for a night clock that does not start until 0 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u74	It seems as if the colleague has already made up his mind, that D66 is already down and that there has been wheeling and dealing: if we get from the cabinet that those planes are not coming, then we will agree to the curfew. 'Cause what do I hear you asking? Can't it be at 9:00, at 10:00, at 11:00 or at 0:00? You're just going with the Cabinet, which, once again, is totally unnecessary. You said to me last week... Again, I'm not even talking about November. Then I'm talking about seven days ago, eight days ago; I know when it was. Then you said to me, "Surely, I'll stand by you." Not that much has changed in that week. We knew about the British variant back then. What about 10%, 13%? Once again, I'll be fighting with the Prime Minister about it in no time. That's total gossip. Studies have been cited that have not been checked by colleagues and other investigations have been omitted. I say to you: we could now say that we are indeed going to vaccinate faster for those who want to, and introduce all the measures taken by the Cabinet first and see what measures really have substantial effects. Each study shows that the effects of a curfew are marginal, and that we're probably already achieving the effects. As a liberal, you must try to go to extremes before you lock up the people at home, before you, as a liberal, say to the people: Rutte decides when you can leave the front door? If it's not necessary for that pandemic, then we shouldn't do it. The only question you are now asking is whether it is allowed at 12 o'clock. What's left of your spine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u75	That's not true, that's absolutely not true. I've just asked a lot of questions to the cabinet. One is also: why do we need that curfew now; are these other measures not enough to push the R under 1? There is not a lot of air in that regard. I'll take this week's OMT advice a little more seriously than what was last week. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u76	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u77	In fact, people are looking at D66 in particular on this point, because they supported Mr Wilders' motion in November and were very firm about not introducing that curfew. When you walk around the Chamber for a while, you see a number of patterns that make political parties spin. One of these patterns is that a lot of questions are asked to the cabinet in the first term, that the answer is awaited and that is then included in the cabinet's proposal. The questions put by Mr Jetten are justified, but I think he knows the answers. What are the main points for Mr Jetten and Mr D66 that the government must answer in order to allow that curfew to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u78	Mr Kuzu has been attached to the blue plush for much longer than I have, so that he recognizes those patterns himself is good to know. It's not like there's one question that's crucial to me. I asked what the impact is on social well-being in the Netherlands and whether this should not be considered very strongly if you want to use such a heavy resource. I have also asked questions about enforcement, precisely because mayors of important security regions, such as the mayors of Nijmegen and those of The Hague, warn again this morning that enforcement is not so easy. So are we going to use something that is not easy to enforce in practice? These are questions that are very important for my group to consider today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u79	That is a positive aspect of nine years' experience in the Chamber; I admit that. But the point is also that the boas indicate that they are going to find it very difficult to maintain it. So the question that Mr Jetten is asking is correct, but he already knows the answer to those questions. He knows that the boas indicate that they are going to be very difficult to maintain. So if you're listening to the boas, or the mayor of Amersfoort, who has also spoken very strongly against that curfew, why are you still doubting and playing a game here, when you've actually made up your mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u80	Let us not have the debate on combating the corona virus in this way. I think all the parties here take this very seriously, to prevent us from ending up in the third wave. I have just asked a number of questions about enforcement, to which I would like to hear the answer from the Minister of Justice, who is concerned about this. For I have received the same signals as Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u81	Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u82	I absolutely do not want to suggest that Mr Jetten is playing games. But I'm curious about the following. The cabinet unanimously decided on the curfew, was said yesterday. That also means that Mr. Jetten's list leader, Minister Kaag, has agreed to that. She also agreed to that curfew. How does that work in the fraction of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u83	Well, the D66 group has nineteen very stubborn MPs, so we always make our own assessment. But yesterday the cabinet acted in full accordance with what we agreed in October: a far-reaching measure such as curfew must always be discussed in advance in Parliament. What was unanimously decided yesterday in the cabinet is to present it to us. That is why we are discussing it today and I have many critical questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u84	I have also heard Mr Jetten ask why the curfew could not go to a later time, for example to 10 p.m. If that were possible, the curfew to 10:00, would D66 be there for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u85	I did ask about other times. Flanders is doing a night clock, from midnight to 5:00 a.m. Many EU Member States have been sitting at 10 p.m. for a long time. There are also many sports associations today calling on the Chamber: make it 21.30 hours instead of 20.30 hours, because then we can still offer all that sports and movement, so that people have an outlet. These are all points that my group regards as very important. It concerns two points: how do you slow down the spread of the virus and how do you guard the wider health of a lot of Dutch people? A curfew at 8.30 p.m., as the cabinet is proposing, I do not see any support in my group at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u86	But 9:30 or 10:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u87	That can certainly help to reach another final verdict, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u89	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about social welfare. This also brings me to a specific point about young people and students and education. Many exams are currently late in the evening to spread as many exams as possible and to ensure that students do not lag further behind. At first, students who had an exam in the evening were also excluded from curfew, but that was later corrected by the minister. My question to the cabinet is why we do not give these students the opportunity to take exams in the evening, so that there are no more students who are lagging behind in their studies. If that is not corrected, I am considering a motion on that point in the second term. Mr. Chairman. What doesn't help with the support for such a new tightening of the lockdown colleagues for me have already said that in the Netherlands we are lagging behind in other EU countries with vaccines and there are thousands of vaccines on the shelf. That is why I support the Minister and urge him, as he put in his letter, to do everything possible to speed up vaccination in the coming weeks. I would also like to ask the following question. Can we not in the Netherlands, just as the UK is now planning, as soon as the Oxford vaccine is readily available, from which the Netherlands is going to receive large stocks, go to 24/7 vaccinations? So we can protect as many people as possible as soon as possible. Finally, Mr President. Next to curfew there is another heavy measure in the package: a quarantine obligation for travellers and people who are tested positively. How's the cabinet gonna take care of these legal arrangements? Who is going to impose this quarantine obligation and what is the role of the judge? Can people expect police control at their door in the enforcement of that quarantine obligation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. I have often stood here to say to the cabinet: take the measures; do not benefit, then it will not harm. But once you're in a lockdown for ten months, you can't say that anymore. It's not like you can take measures to control the virus right now and they come at no price. We see that not only the physical safety of the Netherlands is in danger... people get corona or not? It is also a question of psychological safety. My heart broke this morning when I read a mourning ad from parents who described how their child in high school couldn't actually stand the quarantine and is no longer there. This is also a consequence of what we are doing in this crisis response. With that, there are no easy choices and it is also too easy to say: yes, it is now necessary to take this measure to defeat the coronavirus. It always comes with a price. That is why, as far as I am concerned, this debate is not just about curfew. To be honest, in recent weeks, there has been the almost bizarre focus on one measure, but that is not the point. Let me be clear about one thing: my group believes that we should work together with this outgoing cabinet and throughout the Chamber to get this virus to control, but that we should also look at all the other things that are now going wrong in society. I'm thinking about all the other kids. This means a broader view. It starts with an analysis: why are we worried that we can't control the virus now? That's because there's still too many infections at home. That's because too many people still don't work at home. Those are the two largest components I see, which means we can't control the virus. So, yeah, I get that you're gonna narrow down the number of people at home, the visit. That's also very intense, but I see a direct connection. What the cabinet is proposing to ensure that employers do not force people to come to work is disappointing. I propose that we take real action against employers who have too many people coming to work. It is said that we can act if that happens, but how many times has that happened since March? It's been a long time. How many times have locations been closed? Are office buildings closed? Offices are still open, but my children and our children cannot go to school. I think it is also because there is so much discussion in society about such a measure as curfew. There is a feeling that in so many ways young people are mainly limited in their chances and futures, whereas in all of these other things they are not actually being dealt with. The same applies to vaccinations. In fact, I am really concerned that we should be careful not to delay too much against the advice of science in that second shot. I really want to prevent us from saying: that second shot, postpone it, postpone it. I am always here to encourage the Minister to do it faster and better, but here I really want to be cautious. But I can see that vaccines have been scheduled, but they're still on the shelf. That has to do with a choice you make for the logistics of the GGDs. I think you should start inoculating as soon as those vaccines arrive. That means that the inoculation capacity, how many you do a week or a day, has to go up very quickly. Mr. Chairman. My question about such a curfew is: what will it contribute to the reduction of contacts in the home sphere? What's it gonna do to reduce contamination in the work setting? And very important is: what additional measures are being taken to ensure that we do something about the psychological complaints that arise in young people? I may say it a little loud, but when I read the letter, I get the feeling quite frankly that it was written by people who have no idea what is going on in the world of young people. If you think you can reach lonely young people.com with a website, you are really wrong. I've tried calling these organizations, and they're not reachable either. I wanted to ask: "How many people are actually coming to your website? How many people have you helped in recent times?" Mr President, I will conclude. Young people benefit from the fact that we are going to strive for them to be able to do their job in a library or to open these schools as soon as possible. You also help them by seeing if there is time in the curfew to make it possible that they can at least go outside for a while. I therefore endorse Mr Jetten's plea. They'll be able to work out for a while. Protecting us from covid is just as important as protecting our young people's mental health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u92	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u93	"Corona hits all of us." That is a phrase that has been spoken very often here and in other places. Of course, that's true, but it's not like everyone gets hit just as hard by corona. Because it really matters where you live, for example. It matters if you live in a spacious house with an attic where you might still have a gym. Maybe you could turn a room into a small office and have a garden. It's different when you're in an apartment three-way with your whole family. It's kind of a big deal. It doesn't matter what the quality of your Internet connection is. It matters to what extent you can learn a little well and whether your parents are able to help you with that. Corona hits us all, but certain groups really harder than others. That is also our concern with the package before us today. Mr. Chairman. We understand the great concerns that exist about the British variant. If we read that it's not under control, it does ring all the alarm bells. We have been standing here quite often criticizing the cabinet: that it was attacked and that it was intervened too late. Now the cabinet breaks with that and the SP understands that. We understand that additional measures are now needed to protect our caregivers, because we cannot put the whole of the Netherlands, but our caregivers first and foremost, that there will be another third wave, which may be even higher than the first and the second. That simply cannot be done. So we have to do everything we can to stop that. Mr. Chairman. Then the curfew. The group that is hit by this is the group that is already having a hard time. That is why we think it is really important that we look carefully at how we can do this in such a way that these groups are protected and that this is done in a fair way. That stings. We see that aircraft are still coming in from areas with high levels of contamination and that we, as the Netherlands, are dangling at the bottom of Europe at the rate of vaccination and we see how full the parking spaces at the companies are. Everyone can see that, can't they? Compare it to last March's lockdown. Then it was quiet on the highways; not now. The lockdown is much heavier, but the effect seems smaller. That has to do with this. That's very harsh. That is why it is very important for the SP Group that these companies should really be kept firmer. As far as we're concerned, we've got to get to an empty shop floor duty. Let's turn it around. The figures show that a quarter of companies still allow people to come to work when they can actually work at home. That is a lot of extra travel movements and a lot of extra infections that could have been prevented. We therefore want to see much more decisive action taken. Then it's a no-fly zone. We, as the SP Group, have often advocated the introduction of a flight ban, certainly with regard to the high-risk areas. That's what's gonna happen now. That is good, but the question is: why now? The other question we have to the cabinet is: if you see what different variants occur in different places in the world in South America, in South Africa where one variant is even scarier than the other, is it not wise and also necessary to simply ban all unnecessary flights from now on? Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked about enforcement. Our policemen are having a hard time in this crisis. There's a lot on their plate. I think that the concerns there are quite rightly very great now that this package of measures is in place: what is this going to mean for them? I would therefore like to know from the Cabinet what it is prepared to do for our policemen and our boas to provide them with additional support. A suggestion would be to perhaps start by concluding a decent collective agreement. I think these people have absolutely earned it. Mr President, I will conclude, because I would like to say a few words about the schools. Moreover, we believe that the plea to allow curfew to take place later in the evening can greatly help to give people just a little more space to go outside and exercise. It's super important to stay fit at this time of year. So it's the primary schools. We see that children have been kept at home for a long time and we see which children are most affected. It is very poignant, because those are the most vulnerable children. We're seeing the learning disadvantage in them. We are seeing a dramatic increase in the number of child abuse cases. That's horrible. The SP Group considers it extremely important that the primary schools reopen as soon as possible. Of course, this must be done safely and in consultation with the schools. We really hope that today's additional measures can lead to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u94	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u95	Thank you, Mr President. In this corona crisis, we have already faced countless complex choices. Fighting the virus was necessary, but a lot had to be sacrificed for it. Our children can no longer go to daycare or school, the catering industry has been closed for months and theatres, libraries and museums are closed. All of these are actually at least as violent and far-reaching measures as a possible curfew. I must say that I am surprised to learn of a kind of political barter that seems to be taking place here: half an hour earlier, half an hour later. It's not about that. I want a substantive debate on that curfew. I want to know from the cabinet why it's necessary. Why did we come this far? Why didn't they make sure there was a quarantine obligation sooner? How come last week all those planes came in? Why isn't vaccination taken 24 hours a day and 7 days in a row? Why have the medical guidelines still not included mouth caps? That's what I want to talk to you about. How did we get this far? I'm not interested in playing political games in half an hour or half an hour later. Mr. Chairman. My questions are clear. What about the quarantine duty? Has it been taken care of already? Why is there not yet a full quarantine package with income support, so that people are really helped to stay inside? Why are employers who still have their employees come to work when they don't need to be treated harder? Mr Marijnissen and others have already spoken about this. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the cabinet how we have come to this, but also what the expected effects of a curfew are. Others were talking about it too. How is that curfew going to help us against the variants that are now entering our country from Great Britain, Brazil and South Africa? How can a curfew like that help contain the spread of that virus? Very practical: the police and boas are already having a very difficult time to carry out their duties and of course they are only getting more work. What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that they can do their job? How is the cabinet going to ensure that they do not have to go completely overboard in this crisis, in which we are already asking so many of them? Mr. Chairman. In my question to Mr Heerma, I mentioned it. A lot of people are lonely, both younger and older people. We all just feel bad, because our whole life is upside down. The cabinet is right to draw the wallet for economic aid packages, but there really must now be a social aid package: a social rescue plan to help us at this stage of the crisis to stick to the measures and to ensure that we can remain both psychologically and physically healthy. I would like to ask the cabinet specifically about one of the parts. Would it like to look again at this limitation of visitors? Now only one person is allowed to visit. Why can't two people, if they're from one household, come visit? Think, for example, of single parents who need their grandparents to babysit the children. For them, that would really be a solution. Other countries do, too. I'd like a response. Finally, I would like to say a few words about our children. I told you, we all want the schools to open quickly and responsibly. The last time the schools were closed and opened again, the cabinet left them a little to their fate in the sense that they had to ensure proper ventilation, walkways and splash screens themselves. There's no need to repeat that. What is this cabinet going to do to help schools open responsibly? I would like to hear that today and not next week in a note-taking meeting. Today! For then our children can not only play safely with their friends, but also again suck at the homework and the mathematics, which they really don't want; I would look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u96	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are falling contagion rates, but we certainly can't count ourselves rich with that. Several mutants of the virus grab themselves unpredictablely. Much has already been said about curfew, a far-reaching measure which also raises major dilemmas for our group. We got a lot of reactions from people who are really having a hard time with it, for whom this hurts, for example from a young woman who has fallen into depression. Her only trip in the week is a bite to eat with a friend and then watch another movie together. I notice that loneliness is great among elderly people, students and single people. People are getting more and more isolated and having a hard time. But on the other hand, there is now an expert opinion, from the OMT, which states that the R is going down by about 10% by 8% to 13% when setting that curfew. Can you say: we are not doing it, we are putting this measure aside with the risk that we will have British, Irish or Portuguese conditions here in a few weeks' time and that schools and childcare will have to remain closed even longer? We also have a responsibility for families who now have a lot of art and flying at home. That is also a responsibility that weighs heavily on our group. Madam President. Limiting home visits in time and number of guests is a horrible consideration. My group therefore has a number of questions. Reducing home visits from two to one will help to reduce the number of contacts. But shouldn't the call also sound to just stay home as much as possible? Has the possibility of bubbles instead of changing contacts every day been considered? How can we keep a situation like this bearable, especially for people who go through life alone? What possibilities does the cabinet see for this? Has the curfew been considered at a later date? How is enforcement organised? My group would like to stress the importance of exempting carers so that they can go out in the evening to provide care. How can this be done easily? Have the homeless been taken into account as well? Mr. Chairman. It is important that there is now a quick example letter for employers so that people in care can simply continue to do their job. How is this going withzzp'ers and others who don't have an employer? How do we prevent people from shopping at the same time just before closing time? We also ask for attention to practice lessons and exams. It is important that these can continue, even in the evening. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union wholeheartedly supports the ban on flights from the United Kingdom, South Africa and Latin America until a quarantine obligation has been made legally possible. The strict policy of testing also has our support. Frankly, we were very disappointed to read that corona leave could not be arranged and that there was no agreement between employers and employees. We really see parents getting into trouble. They'll have the most to wear in the next few weeks, if the kids can't go to school yet. What can the Cabinet do to support these parents in the short term? Too many people are going to work because the boss or the majority of the employees at home think they're bullshit. Others have also brought this forward. What is the cabinet going to do to make homework really the norm? Stricter control and enforcement are needed. Mr. Chairman. I see that compliance is simply not yet in order. One in three people with complaints will not be tested and one in four people with positive test results will not comply with the quarantine. What is the Cabinet going to do to increase compliance? Can we just help people with that? That is a call that my group has often made and which has often come from the breadth of the Chamber. I believe that there have also been motions for resolutions on this issue. How can we support people to comply with the quarantine? Mr. Chairman. The number of guests at a funeral is reduced. There are possibilities to ask for an exception in special situations, for example for large families, because you can only say goodbye once. Then let's talk briefly about the vaccination strategy. It is a good thing that the general practitioners are now vaccinated earlier. I think that's very important so that they can do their job safely. We read that the second shot is not placed after three weeks, but after six weeks. In conjunction with halving the stock, I ask the Minister whether we are too much at risk with this. Mr President, I shall conclude. My group assumes that the cabinet will also use this period to come up with an exit strategy, which will show when more can be done: no curfew, with more people walking outside and especially the opening of schools. Every week that schools can open early, it helps to relieve the burden on families. It will also care about educational disadvantages and inequality of opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u99	Thank you, Mr President. For almost a year, we've been struggling with the corona pandemic. During that period, the cabinet has not yet shown in any way that it has learned that protecting public health must be priority number one, if it is acute, if you have already run into the wall with your face, but also in a broader sense. Mr. Chairman. In a broader sense, there are two ways to look at this crisis and to look at the responsibility we have to protect people and relieve the burden of care. But they're not separate from each other. We have a direct responsibility to see what wisdom is now. The cabinet rightly warns about the British mutation and other mutations. But what behavioral economists and psychologists also point out is that what you can also feel with peasant understanding is that you ask of citizens very far-reaching things that they are not built on. We're not built to keep social distance. People need contact. If you ask citizens to do that, they can expect the government itself to do things where................................................................................................................................................................................................ This cabinet is not built to withstand the lobby of the aviation industry, the food industry, the fast food chains and the meat industry. People can expect that, if you're suggesting a curfew. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party supports all other comments made by colleagues, for example about employers. We agree with those questions. But I'm talking about one very specific employer: the abattoirs. They explicitly ask people to come to work extra, not because we need it, because we are starving, but to export to China. That is one of those interests in which the cabinet must show: when we ask people in society to do everything to protect each other, we also do everything to protect public health. How many times has the Party of Animals been forced to refuse to fly? Now, finally, there's a bit of a flight ban coming up. But the cabinet has said: yes, let it come, because we think it is far too far-reaching to intervene in aviation. That's gotta be different. Mr. Chairman. And now for the concrete consideration. Now that the cabinet is proposing a curfew, the Party for Animals is missing... we have pointed that out before. Of course, fighting corona is a very important thing, but it is not the only interest. It is not a question of: do not benefit, then it does not harm. The health effects for people, for young people, are enormous. We see eating disorders increase in young people. We're seeing suicide. There's a very high price being paid. So that weighs differently for the Party for the Animals. We wonder why the cabinet does not simply ignore these effects and submit such a proposal to the Chamber so that we can make a sensible decision. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals is not convinced yet. We are also very displeased that the cabinet has refused the indirect effect that Prime Minister Rutte spoke of... A curfew would be necessary because of an indirect effect: then at least people feel the urgency. The Scientific Council for Government Policy has already discussed how you deal with this behavioral crisis, with people who do not comply with the measures that exist. You should have involved behavioral experts in the OMT that refused to do so to see how we can ensure that the measures that are already heavy enough are complied with, so that you do not have to be even stricter. Why didn't the Cabinet do that? Finally, Mr President. Today we stand here again to talk about a curfew. It is all very justified that we should discuss this with each other. But corona is a taste of what awaits us if we do not resolve that wider crisis at its core. Then I refer to the climate case, in which the judge ruled that the government is doing too little to protect the lives and well-being of citizens. The cabinet is still looking away from that, and we can no longer afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u101	Madam President. What is wisdom? It was a ominous message yesterday. Because of the British, African and Brazilian corona mutations, the virus slips between our fingers. The concerns are serious. Painful measures remain necessary. But what is wisdom when we also see and hear that the damage to vulnerable people increases, loneliness increases, suicides rise, when you see fuse getting shorter and toes grow longer? Mr. Chairman. The most striking proposal is the introduction of a curfew, a rigorous measure that intervenes deeply in everyone's life. Let me be clear right now. All things considered, the SGP is not convinced that curfew is a proportionate measure in the current circumstances. It is more an expression of impotence than of activity; compensation for declining support and reduced compliance with the measures already in place. Is it wise, then, to keep putting another shovel on top of it? You can't keep stretching a rubber band. At some point, it snaps. A general appeal to the inescapableness of the measures is no longer sufficient at this stage of the crisis. The cabinet needs to be clearer about the balance of interests that has been made. Does the Cabinet now have an insight into the impact of the measure on the well-being of people, young people and children? How's that weighted? I have the same question about the advice to receive only one visitor, something that many people experience as a rigorous measure as the curfew. Yesterday I received an email from a youth worker about suicidal young people for whom the days are dark and for whom a visit to friends is really vital. Is there room with the blunt axe of a curfew for what has been very often called "human measure" in this room in recent days? Mr. Chairman. Another point. With the curfew we cross a border, namely the border of the corona law, the law that we have said yes to in this Chamber after many strokes and roads. For this measure does not come out of the corona law, but a law is now being removed which is a kind of legacy from the Cold War and is primarily intended to combat riot and guard public order. An emergency law which also seems to be using some kind of emergency procedure. 'Cause what about legal? Is there going to be a general measure of governance first or not? If you look at the €8,700 fine that is threatened by that law, or the six months in prison, that indicates the heavy category we have entered. I know the cabinet's gonna take a lower bet now, but still, that's the criminal threat in that law. A number of exceptions are provided for on curfew, but in many situations they do not. Think of the commitment of spiritual caretakers or preachers. And what about political activities, such as a city council meeting, member meetings or a live online campaign meeting with elections in sight? Mr. Chairman. Instead of curfew, the SGP advocates more targeted measures within current legislation and stricter enforcement and compliance with those measures. Make homework more mandatory and easier, sharpen quarantine for people who are infected, take more action against corona parties, see if you can also bet on social bubbles; what possibilities does the cabinet see for this? That is the course we are heading for. A question about education. As regards special education, the OMT has already said in an opinion earlier: the space there is is actually not being used enough. What can be done to actually open up this special education as soon as possible? Does the cabinet also take this advice from the OMT? Finally, Mr President. What is wisdom in this time of crisis? Green of Prinster, the well-known nineteenth-century statesman and historian, also asked that question. At the end of his standard work on patriotic history he looked back on all the crises that the Netherlands had endured, and he ended his look back with a biblical apple. I'd like to do that well-meaning apple in these sober days. That was the Bible word: "Vile yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in his time." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u102	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u103	Thank you, Mr President. The people in the Netherlands suffer greatly from the strict lockdown measures of this cabinet. More and more people are no longer seeing light at the end of the tunnel and are destroying the fact that freedoms are being restricted and social contact is being discouraged. One in three students now indicate that they are unhappy. There's more and more kids out there with suicide plans. They end up in the hospital. Anxiety disorders and depression are increasing. The lockdown causes enormous social suffering. This cabinet is putting a scoop on top of it by wanting to introduce a curfew, a draconian measure that greatly restricts freedom, the effectiveness of which has not been demonstrated and which is not proportionate. With a curfew, this cabinet is going crazy. It takes a measure that even takes people for a walk in the evening and makes the Netherlands a kind of police state. That curfew is crazyjorum and has to go straight into the trash. Mr. Chairman. I'm not just saying this because there's no proof the curfew works. Germany fired the curfew at national level the day before yesterday. We see that in countries where curfew has been introduced, the effect cannot be demonstrated. We see experts and scientists shooting the curfew. In short, the proof that it really works is totally absent. In addition, the measure is not proportionate. With a curfew, a measure is proposed that takes away people's last bit of freedom. Other measures are conceivable before being taken in the same way as this harsh measure. This cabinet has been stunting for months to promote homework and restrict transport movements, but they cannot do so. Mr. Chairman. The curfew can also lead to more group formation and contaminations. Can you imagine that between 5:00 p.m., just after work time, and just before curfew, megaclusters start to emerge on the street, that people still think: a quick trip to the supermarket, a quick walk or a quick visit with public transport. So: more movement, more people outside, more clusters and thus more infections in these peak hours. The limited movements that people make are clustered in a short time, making it more crowded. That can never be the intention. Mr. Chairman. Besides, such a curfew is just very difficult to maintain. What exactly are valid reasons for going out on the street and what not? The boas already indicate that because of the huge crowds they will not be able to cope with the maintenance of such a terrible curfew. The police too, although they indicate that they can do it, are already on the gums and should be available mainly for what the police are for: security and emergency aid. The police weren't created to fine people for taking a stroll after 8:30. Finally, Mr President. That curfew is gonna cost a lot of society. People will continue to unite. People will move less and therefore live less healthy. People will get more depressed. There are plenty of other measures that are more logical and acceptable. That starts with complying with the existing basic measures: keep your distance, pay attention to hygiene, wash your hands regularly et cetera. Cluster formation could also be maintained. That is much more logical and rational. There's a lot more support for that. Allow, for example, a limited number of people per 100 m in the supermarket. Why aren't we reading about this measure? DENK therefore says: do not grab the blunt axe that makes it even more difficult for people; stop the curfew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u105	Mr. Chairman. The percentage of positive tested has fallen to 11.7%, but we are all very afraid of the emergence of the contagious British variant. And then there's a South African variant and a South American variant. The latter may be even more contagious than the British mutation. There are doubts as to whether the vaccine is working against that South American variant. In addition, we are very concerned about the reports that vaccinees may still be able to pass on the infection. The cabinet is now coming up with stricter measures, such as a further restriction of visit, a flight ban and a curfew. The ban on flights from the UK, South Africa and South America seems sensible to us. It was incomprehensible that with the conditions in England and Ireland just another twenty flights a day arrived at Schiphol. The advice to limit the visit to one person per day also raises questions. If you've had the neighborhood nurse in the morning, is your portion of visitation up for the day? And what if you need guidance as a visitor? The curfew is for the Netherlands a fierce new measure that has many feet in the earth. Firstly, exceptions will be made. There are already quite a few in the letter, but there will be more professions that need to be excluded. I am thinking, for example, of television workers. So, Chairman, how are we gonna do that here in the Chamber? No more late debates? Maybe a digital quorum after all, as was arranged in the First Chamber? And no, I don't lie at home in my bed trying to netflix. Then we're just working. Maintaining curfew will be particularly difficult in the major cities, as well as the quarantine obligation. We understand that it's necessary if 20% of the positively tested people just go outside. It is just not quite clear to me how the Minister intends to regulate this legally and what exactly is the difference between option one and option two. Can the Minister explain this further? Mr. Chairman. We are also aware of the problems of young people. That is why we welcome the budget of 62 million for the youth package. In any case, it is a great sacrifice for young people, single people, single parents with problem children sitting at home, and people in a violent relationship. There really needs to be more attention to that. What we need to do now is vaccinate, vaccinate. So far, 100,000 people have been vaccinated, but the pace has to go up. We're almost on the goddamn list at the bottom. The second shot will be postponed to six weeks, but will we still make it to 95% protection? Testing at the G.D.D.'s is going pretty well now. You usually get the results in a day. Can testing now also be extended for people without complaints? As of March 1st, everyone can be tested about once a month. Can't we just bring that up? Mr. Chairman. During the press conference yesterday, I did not hear anything about working at home, fortunately today from colleagues. On the road it's just really busy, much busier than during the first wave. Contamination at work is in second place. The Minister is talking to the social partners, but how is he going to ensure that homework is more enforced? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u107	Mr. Chairman. In 1980 I first read books about dystopian and absurdist societies: Brave New World by Aldous Huxley and of course 1984 by George Orwell. At that time, I was under the impression that it would be impossible for anything to come of it. The year 1984 passed and we lived in freedom without a megalomaniac, all-determinating government. I have recently read again in 1984 and I am afraid that we are not far from the horror scenario outlined in it. Newspeak has become normal, the Ministry of Truth is running at full speed and the state propaganda is no longer contradicted. Demonstrating may still be allowed, but only if it concerns a subject that has the charm of the government. The almighty government takes care of us, but in such a way that we are less and less free. In a small year we have turned from a cozy and free-minded people into a fearful group of people who no longer shake hands, no longer hug each other and walk around with completely meaningless mouth caps. We have willingly accepted that the government has imposed a lockdown on us, which will bankrupt middlemen andzzp'ers. And no one rebelled. And all for a virus that is similar to a heavy flu and because of a cabinet that is unable to scale up the number of ICU beds. And now this missionary cabinet is setting us a curfew and we're still not revolting. More and more, we're losing our freedom. I understand that left-wing parties are okay with all this. I have seen for myself how this went in East Germany, Russia, China and Cuba. I can tell you it's hell. The socialist state of salvation does not lead to collective happiness, quite the contrary. What surprises me most, perhaps, is that liberal parties are for this curfew. How is it that a liberal party can agree to such a disastrous measure? Mr. Chairman. A curfew is a restriction of our freedom that goes far too far for the Forum for Democracy. This measure is disproportionate and ineffective and the collateral damage is again very serious. Firstly, there is no justification for curfew. I'd like to hear from the Minister a statement of support, as far as he has it. Secondly, locking people up leads to illness, depression, obesity, child abuse, bankruptcies and sometimes even suicide. The government is traumatizing an entire generation. How does the Minister see this dictatorial measure in practice? Most people come home from work, then eat with their families and then have all kinds of obligations. They range from unofficial care, walking the dog, doing a bit more on the farm, taking care of a horse, for example. How's the Minister handling this? Does the Minister even understand that smart young people are just gonna meet at 8:30 and then sleep together? Thirdly, it remains odd that the government should close its eyes to solutions. Medicines such as hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin are ignored, as are things like prevention, more sports and better ventilation. And all because of the so-called English mutation, which seems more contagious but is not more virulent. The peak in London's hospitals is right on Christmas. The occupation of the ic's in London is now lower than in January last year. The problem there seems to be because English nurses are less employable by having to stay at home during a positive PCR test, thereby reducing labour productivity. The number of positive PCR tests in England is already falling rapidly. My question to the Minister is this: did you take these matters with you in the decision to impose a curfew? Have you now mapped out the collateral damage and weighed against the possible benefits? Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to normal life as soon as possible. A curfew is completely unacceptable for the Forum for Democracy, as is all the other bizarre corona measures. Let us create policies that are based on solutions that work and that are less harmful. Let's accept that death is part of life. So stop scaring me and let the Netherlands go again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u109	Madam President. Can we later, as many of us sit more still, in the evening after work to stay healthy not go hiking or cycling individually? Do we even have to turn in the bike later to prevent us from doing something we can't do? Tell Boas and police to make every effort to maintain curfew. The domestic violence has only got worse and will get worse with a mandatory curfew. Do I understand that Minister De Jonge estimates the effectiveness of a mandatory curfew at 8% to 13%? How does he do that? International scientists are very hesitant. It is a good tradition in the Netherlands to focus first on the voluntary compliance with a behavior measure. The majority do that, with or without moaning. Why not call first to not leave the house at night, on a voluntary basis? A mandatory curfew is disproportionate. Surely there must be more effective measures that do less to intervene in our freedom? This outgoing cabinet is starting to show totalitarian traits. In this context, I would like to mention once again that build back is better. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's previous reply did not make it any clearer. So again, what does he mean by build back better? Why does he say in the UN context that the corona crisis is a great opportunity? What exactly does build back better mean? Why didn't he discuss something so far-reaching with Parliament first? He's a prime minister for ten years. Why does he need a terrible crisis to do better? The Prime Minister always praises the good contacts with Angela Merkel. Can he deny or confirm that Germany has plans to close its borders with neighbouring countries with high levels of contagion? Does that also apply to our country? Finally. I'm afraid curfew is one step too far now. It can have an adverse effect on other corona measures. Psychic distress is already high. I'm genuinely concerned about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u110	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u111	Thank you, Mr President. The cabinet is slow with the most logical measures. When it goes into the soup, it announces without cans or blush the most draconian measures to compensate one's own failure. First of all, the curfew, whose effectiveness has not been demonstrated. For people who are just mentally pulling it, that one block can be what they need to hold the lockdown. Where's the human size? There should have been a ban on flights from the UK and South Africa long ago. Everyone could fly into our country effortlessly and nothing happened. Why didn't you tell me before? And why does the Cabinet not consider other measures than curfew, such as mandatory negative testing and quarantine for all travelers from abroad, as the OMT recommends? Why only the passengers who come by plane or by ship, and not by car? But no, another exactly wrong measure is being taken. Mr. Chairman. The delay of the second vaccination is, at least, a sham safety. That could be seriously dangerous. Last week, I asked the Minister not to wait for that second vaccination. He confirmed the risks of that. There are big risks. Why does the Russian roulette cabinet play with health? Why does the Netherlands think they know better? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the anesthesia workers, the surgical assistant and the recovery officer. They weren't taken in the first round of vaccination. This is also reported by the National Association of Surgery Assistants. However, they still have to do their job, where they are at risk of infection. How is this possible? What's the Minister gonna do about this? Finally, Mr President. I still get signals that healthcare professionals want to wear FFP2 masks, but that this is denied. Why doesn't the Minister protect the care workers better? Mr. Chairman. Toeingly slow and without human measure; that sums up this policy of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u112	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. Then we proceed with the answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u113	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u114	Thank you, Mr President. In the division, I intend to talk to the Chamber about the curfew and the question why. Then Ferd Grapperhaus, the Minister of Justice and Security, will address the questions about how, the exceptions and enforcement. In addition to curfew, I would like to say a few things about work and the comments that have been made about working at home. After the Minister of Justice, our request is for the Chamber to give the floor, if possible, to the Minister of Infrastructure and the State of Water about flying and travelling. Finally, the VWS Minister will discuss the other measures: the non-economic but social consequences of everything we do and the impact on society. And he'll answer a few questions about vaccinations. Having said that, I do not want to go back to yesterday's press conference, the technical briefing and the letter you received in reply to the questions. I imagine they're all familiar. Viewers at home may think that I go straight to the answers, but I do so because of the time and not to repeat myself. About the curfew. What is involved, of course, is also noted by several speakers, Mr President, is the source of home infections. For a substantial part they take place in the evening. Contrary to the urgent opinions, which certainly have value, we must now take an additional measure which can actually be maintained, also in view of the seriousness of the English virus and the desire of all of us to have some perspective earlier. That's why we're doing this. Maybe I can cut all the curfew questions short, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u116	They also asked why right now? That has to do with what I just said: the British variant and the great concerns we all have. It is important that we do not turn out to be in a situation such as that of early March last year: looking at Bergamo and hoping that it would fall with this. This, combined with a still high number of infections due to the existing virus, means that we need to push the matter back. But we also want to be able to offer more perspective to society. It is not for nothing that the Outbreak Management Team finds that the situation is fragile and frankly worrying. We need to improve the starting point by slowing down the spread to the maximum. In doing so, the Outbreak Management Team bases itself on scientific studies that are indeed not always peer reviewed. That's right. In this pandemic it is inevitable that scientific studies become available as preprint, so before they can be assessed. Now is just not the time, because you want that knowledge available as soon as possible. The OMT and RIVM of course look at the senders, the quality of the research and the researchers, to ensure that they are high quality. Of course, we are also considering other measures than curfew. The only other really tough measure you could think of is the advice to stay at home at all. But that's just another piece of advice. An advice to stay at home has a huge social impact according to our assessment. If you maintained that, you'd actually have a curfew, but day and night. That is an alternative, but it has enormous consequences. Then there is the question of closing the borders. Mr Krol asked for that. We didn't mean to. It would also have far-reaching consequences for the necessary movement of goods and persons. But there is an urgent advice, which fortunately many people follow. And yesterday, of course, measures were added to that as additional tests, even just before departure, on boat and plane. We already had PCR tests on boat, plane and train. Border traffic is also important. But at the moment there is no intention to close the border. The curfew is also important in this sense because 35% of the infections are caused by home visits and 50% at home. The curfew intervenes precisely at that point. Limiting the home visit, which takes place especially in the evening, automatically has an effect on the infections. This is also reflected in the figures: 8% to 13%. That's really significant. Then, of course, we have been asked several times how precise we can be. That can never be done exactly, because you can never see such a measure completely in isolation. The Outbreak Management Team also explains that these packages have always been viewed as packages. But they have made an attempt to say that if you look at it in isolation, you come to that range from 8% to 13% based on international comparisons. Then, of course, the question is when you want to get rid of it. This lockdown runs until February 9. It can't be ruled out that after 9 February something is needed. We really don't know that right now. Let's just look at that one step at a time. I want to say two things to the Chamber. That is on the one hand that when there are opportunities for enlargement, education and basic education within it, priority is given. And that's on the other hand that if more measures are needed, then the curfew is the first thing we really want to get rid of, so it's the first thing that goes into the garbage can. You can't guarantee a hundred percent that that curfew will not be able to return under any circumstances, always, never, under any circumstances. I can't guarantee that. I can only say that we, the Cabinet and I also think the Chamber, agree that if you enter the curfew, it is the first one you delete if it is possible at all, even if it is still necessary. This is not a hard guarantee, because you can't give it now, but this is the intention. In addition, the House is, of course, dealing with this itself again because of the legislation. At that time, that should always be a decision of the Chamber. Then I will, perhaps in conclusion, answer the questions that have been asked about the time. It has to be effective. What the OMT says is, if you want this to be effective, this has to start somewhere in that time lock between 8:00 and 9:00. If you put it on after 9 p.m., it will be greatly reduced in effectiveness, plus the fact that the question of proportionality will be put on the table. That's the honest answer, that it should happen in that bandwidth. So it could start a little earlier, and a little later could, but it has to take place between 8:00 and 9:00 p.m.; we just have to be honest about that. That's my first reaction. And I think there's a lot of questions, so we can go deeper into the curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u117	Sure. I have Mr Wilders, Mr Krol, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Jetten, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u118	If this is the Prime Minister's defense of pushing people down the throats of the greatest freedom restriction ever, at least in recent years, what am I saying? This Minister's story is really a story of nothing. Do you think you can convince the Netherlands more here, with three sentences and three minutes, and then say: stay home if I want to? Madam President. It can really be described with no pen. It is unnecessary to introduce it; there are many alternatives to it. It's careless and disproportionate. And let me say, Mr President, that I want to do this; it may take some time to say a few things about it. First of all, the comparison you make in your letter and the OMT in his letter with France does not go far enough. In France, when one came up with that curfew, the schools and shops were open, and still are open. Whatever you think of that curfew, if you do it from an open society, it has natural effect. In the Netherlands, shops and schools are closed. So the difference and comparison with France doesn't go away. Madam President. Then the reviews. And I hope, frankly, that journalists will do the same, because I went through that literature with a number of colleagues last night; I am not a scientist, but I did. Then we see, as I said, the Prime Minister also confirms that the fourth piece in the literature, by Baunez et al., has not been peer-reviewed. I remember that Mrs Agema, when she came up with an investigation last year, was about wiped out at the briefing by Mr Van Dissel, because she dared to come up with an investigation that had not been peer-reviewed. And now it doesn't matter. Madam President. Then there are two other investigations. When you read it, there's just something completely different in it than what the cabinet says. In the literature of the second note it just says that the R without stay-at-home-order is widely interpreted; not only stay at home, but also the curfew is included, if you read that research you can easily stay below 1, if you do so without that curfew. Another study says and shows that a national lockdown.. and underneath it is understood the curfew... hardly has any effect, and that it is mainly about people who meet each other. And then there are two fresh investigations, which have been peer-reviewed: one by Brauner, from November last year, and one by 5 January this year, from Ben-David. They both say that the extra effect of curfew is almost negligible, if you take but also those other measures that restrict people at home in the contacts, and that a curfew is not necessary for that. So it's gossip. You're not even going into it. You do not give the Chamber any peer-reviewed, uncontrolled tests, and when we do, you will wipe us out of the Chamber. And it's clear from all the research that it doesn't add up. The comparison with France is limp, because the Netherlands is already locked; we already have the worst. And I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, don't do it. If you want to do so, try all the measures that you have proposed today, including all the measures that I may disagree with, for example, that people should receive only one person, at home or outside or whatever. Then start with that. And don't come with that horse medicine right away, because it's probably not necessary at all. The big profit comes from those measures, not the curfew. Have you considered that and are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u119	First, why I didn't explain again in detail why curfew is necessary. I do not, because there was a press conference yesterday, there was a briefing yesterday and a letter was sent to the Chamber. I would point out that the President asked me, even at your request, to immediately... Mr President, I will finish this, if you do not mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u120	I didn't ask for anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u121	I'm just talking right now. Mr. Wilders, the chairman asked me, too, I thought, at your request, to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u122	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u123	I didn't ask for anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u124	Can I give you the answer, or don't you want to hear it? You keep going on and on, but I've been talking for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u125	I asked the Prime Minister to answer the questions and not to go into all kinds of technical matters that were said during the briefing yesterday, so that we do not get a repeat of the technical briefing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u126	I totally get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u127	But that's different from answering questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u128	Exactly. I have now tried to answer all the questions in my speech. I shall now turn to the questions. I'd like to say one more thing about yesterday. I say to Mr Wilders: a reproduction factor above 1.3 means that, if 10% of the virus is already British in the Netherlands, it will go up like a hockey stick. If we do not intervene in time and early, we will have to deal with an overload of our intensive cares again in a moment. This may rise to numbers similar to or worse than in March and April last year. This means that all kinds of necessary operations must be postponed. This means that the people who work in care do not come again to the people they also want to treat, because someone who simply comes in and threatens to choke, of course, always logically precedes someone whose surgery may be delayed for another or two weeks. But you can't keep postponing all cancer surgery and all heart surgery and all other surgeries for one to two weeks without any health damage. That is why this is necessary! It is not for nothing that all experts who advise us on the Outbreak Management Team say: it is so serious, this terrible measure of curfew must take you in addition to the existing lockdown measures. They've tried to calculate that as best they can, and it has an important extra effect on what we're doing. And Mr Wilders says: look at what all these other things are doing first. That is simply irresponsible, Mr. Wilders! I don't know you like that at all. You never sided with the wappies who say there's nothing here. You have always said: I acknowledge that the virus is there, I acknowledge that we must take action and I address the cabinet to problems in the care sector. These are all justified comments, and that is a justified criticism that we must respond to. But all these experts are saying, on the same lines, that we should do this. I'm not waiting for this either. No one in the Netherlands is waiting for a curfew. It's horrible! But I'm surprised that you're here today, as the biggest opposition party, quietly pleading that the peer reviews are missing. No wonder those peer reviews are missing! The developments of this virus are going so fast that they just haven't been able to happen yet. I said, of course, the OMT and the RIVM are not based on messwork. They base themselves on research that they say are of well-known and well-known researchers. That is what they base themselves on. We have tried to support it all as well as possible, but you will never get it all the way to the last decimal place. Finally. Mr Wilders asks: why don't you do a stay-at-home-order? That's a lockdown of day and night! That's much worse, isn't it? Doesn't that lead to a lot more uniformity? So that's why we say: look at this curfew for the next two weeks, in combination with and in addition to what we're already doing. It is simply necessary. My and our most important task as politicians, in addition to ensuring a good economy that leads to jobs, is to ensure that this country remains safe. This is the heart of what we're doing here, keeping the country safe. We must keep it safe from a virus that has already cost 13 000, 14,000 or 15,000 lives in this country. In America, it's already cost 400,000 people their lives. The impact in America is now greater than that of the entire Second World War! That turned out to be in Joe Biden's speech yesterday. I didn't get that grade ready, but it made a very big impression on me. That's what we're going through right now. In addition, it has an impact on another hundreds of thousands of other people who are afraid of the virus, who are afraid that they will become ill, and on millions of people who are affected by the measures. So I am really making a plea to Mr Wilders as well. I understand all the questions and I'll try to answer them. It will never be entirely possible to show everything exactly hard to the last digit behind the decimal point. But if all the experts who advise us say we should do this, then I think we have a heavy duty to really seriously see if we should do that, especially if you know what happens if you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u129	The Prime Minister's just doing gossip! What he's saying here is really far below par. That last sentence, that all experts find this! Today there is a great article in the daily newspaper with a professor in microbiology and in virology, who says that it may not be that bad with the infection in the UK! In his view, it is because the British, and in other countries the French and Irish, relaxed the measures around Christmas, for example. He says it's coming down there now! So it is not at all true that all specialists think so. But more importantly, the Prime Minister is now letting people bleed for his own failure. It has been known for a month that the English variant of the virus exists in the Netherlands. If you had really meant what you said, you could have made sure that no more aircraft could land at Schiphol Airport for a month. That is what the Chamber has asked for, and we have tabled motions for resolutions on it. You haven't done that in a month. You've landed dozens of planes, bringing thousands of people here. You have simply failed in that. Now you say, "That's all right, we're gonna do that now." That's some kind of political deal with D66. "Now people have to make sure they stay home." That is unacceptable and unnecessary. Of course, the PVV also thinks that we should make sure that the care I've been fighting for this for a whole year. You're the party that broke off the care. If you had started to vaccinate people voluntarily, so if you weren't the last but the first in the world, we would have been much better off by now. That's the solution to getting our freedom back. I am talking about vaccinating people between 60 and 75 who are now on the ic and chronically ill. You didn't. You failed in that too, just like you did with the planes. Just look at the facts. I'll let you take action. I have had a lot of criticism over the past year, but I have also supported many measures. So don't come up with "fancy behavior." If there's anyone here who's a wappie, it'll be you before I do. You just have to look at the facts. The facts are that the PVV has supported a lot, but this does not apply to measures that are not necessary. If you now say "I'm going to vaccinate people between 60 and 75 and the chronically ill immediately and I'm going to make sure that we have that settled within two months," you won't get that full code black on the ICUs in May. That's what the OMT says. That situation is in May. If you do, you can stop it. If you then introduce some of your measures without that curfew, I swear that curfew is only such a small part of the total; don't lie to people by saying that everything depends on curfew, because the home situation is much more important than that curfew, then you can prevent it. So I'm in favour of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u130	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u131	No, Madam President, I'd like to finish. I would argue that the Prime Minister should not take that measure. Then you can still make sure that the ic's don't defect in a responsible way. What you're doing is completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u132	Just a few points of substance. First of all, with regard to the English virus. We were the first to take measures in Europe to ensure that flights from England could not continue. We then decided, also in cooperation with other countries, to introduce the mandatory PCR test. We have now decided, partly on the basis of the Jetten/Klaver motion, to go one step further. I think that these are sensible steps to bring things back as quickly as possible. Then it's about vaccinating. We're gonna vaccinate what we have inside. Around the vaccine there is always the discussion: how much should you have in stock for the second shot? Hugo de Jonge, the minister of VWS, has shown in a letter that we are going to take a little more space on the basis of the Health Council recommendations. That can also be done by.............................................................................................................................................................. If we have to, we're gonna prick 24 hours a day. Only, at the moment there are still too few vaccines to fill 24 hours a day in all cases. But at that point, too, I agree that you have to do it. But vaccination isn't gonna help us stay out of this third wave if it happens at some point. That's easy. You can't win that race with vaccination. Vaccination is going to help you in the medium term and is ultimately the way to get out of this crisis, perhaps in combination with medication and massive testing. Vaccination is the most important instrument you have, but it is simply not going to help you in the race against this English variant and against other variants. With a reproduction factor above 1.3 with the current measures, it is very simple to see: that is 1.3 and 1.3 and 1.3, each time. That starts moderately, but that goes up like a hockey stick. This means once again a total overload of our health care and again major damage to people with vulnerable health and to our elderly. That's not possible. You can't take that chance. All the expertise that we have gathered in the club that advises us on this, says: "We have reciprocated and weighed this on all sides. We've been watching this. Our urgent advice to politics is to have a curfew in the Netherlands, in addition to what you are already doing, between 8 p.m. and 4 p.m. or between 9 p.m. and 5 p.m., plus some other behavioral advice." Then I think that this one is still enforceable and that we should do so. That must, of course, be done after proper weighing. All kinds of questions have been asked about that. Finally. No political deals have been made. There's a motion by Jesse Klaver of GroenLinks and Rob Jetten of D66 about that flying. We've reviewed that motion. We've been looking into it. We've come to the conclusion that that's possible. Then I'll, uh, we'll make such a motion from the Chamber, if that's technically possible. In all these parties I am talking not only about the opposition parties who do not immediately say "no' to a curfew, but also about the coalition parties, so there are all justified concerns about side effects and times. How do you do that? How do you deal with work? How do you ensure that you provide more protection to people who have to be required to work while they can also work at home? These are all justified comments. That's not political dealing. That is, in my opinion, just saying: "Joh, that advice is there; we do not immediately say no. Convince us." And then there are a lot of worries that we have. You'll have to address it. That's how I'm gonna try to do it, along with my colleagues. That is not dealing; that is a normal political debate in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u133	Cow business it is. Flat-footed cow business. Politics isn't always a nice game, especially when it comes to these important things, but apart from that, it's my freedom to leave your home whenever you want, in a responsible way, and to prevent the government from deciding in this case in Mark Rutte's person when to leave your home. That freedom is something I fight for. I'm fighting to prevent that. Why? Because it's not necessary. There are a lot of scientists who say that, too. You only send the advice to the Chamber of the people who speak in your street. Again, this morning, the newspapers were full of scientists saying something else. I will not let the Prime Minister talk to me about the fact that the PVV Group, which has a thousand times greater heart for care and has shown this in recent years, is the group that does not deal with it responsibly. Your party has closed down the hospitals, the ICUs and the emergency services. We didn't do that. You did. So don't come to me with "an irresponsible policy for care," because it was the VVD led by Mark Rutte who did that. And I stand here for freedom. I lost it myself, and I know what that's like. I do not accept that we need to introduce curfew when necessary, while there are alternatives to introduce. And there are. If it's not the vaccination... It is, because those people who flood the hospitals, that's not until May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u134	Not until May...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u135	That's not before; that's what the OMT showed us. Then we come to those numbers of 1,250 people...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u136	Not until May!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u137	Well, as early as May. No, Mr. Rutte. You can try to make fun of the PVV again with a grimas and a smile... Your old tricks. Then you're gonna say again, "Oh, did you say May, only May?" I see him coming again. But get serious about it! There's no need. It's irresponsible. You will find the PVV on your side if you need to take measures to combat the coronavirus and not to flood the hospitals, the ic's. We fought for that for a year. But don't go unneeded on that freedom of people with all the bullshit you keep here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u138	Mr. Wilders, there are almost 700 people in intensive care right now. That's dropping by five, six people in the last few days. In the evening you see that people are fired; then it is incorporated in the figures. It went from 666 last night to 660, so there are still almost 700 people in intensive care, with the classic virus we have in the Netherlands. There are over 1,700 people on hospital beds, besides. Those are huge numbers. A lot of scheduled operations have been postponed. Then you cannot say: the big problem arises in May. I agree with you that this is a natural problem, but it is of course a long time ago. And it's already here. I don't think you can take that risk. I also think that I should ask the leader of the largest opposition party in the Netherlands who, I think, has always approached the cabinet critically in these debates, but who has never said 'the virus does not exist' or that kind of thing. He never did. He's always taken responsibility. Then I find it too easy here to be able to... It's okay to say "I don't want that curfew," "I have other suggestions," "we're asking everyone to stay at home all the way" or that sort of thing. But he doesn't. You can't say that vaccination is the alternative here. We're vaccinating away from what we have, but the vaccines are simply coming through too slowly to win this fight against that threatening third wave. By doing this now and taking additional measures, you also have some perspective on opportunities, in education and in other places, if it were all to be a bit of a relief. Of course, we also want to show the Netherlands that this doesn't mean you're in that mess for months to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u139	Our Prime Minister is a master in giving an answer to a question that has not been asked. That was evident from the answer he just gave about closing the borders. I have not asked at all whether the Netherlands intends to close borders. I would point out that Germany announced this morning that Germany wants to close its borders with neighbouring countries where the level of contamination is high. Then I said, "Here's a good friend of Angela Merkel's, so is there more to this? Is this hanging over our heads?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u140	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u141	So I got the wrong answer to the right question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u142	Sorry, but then I misunderstood the question. I don't have any information on that. I don't know about Germany. I should check it out. At least I haven't heard from her myself. But that's not a guarantee. It's not like she's calling me about every decision she makes; it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u143	It is important for the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u144	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u145	...that this is gonna happen. So I'd like you to know the answer for the next term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u146	We'll see. I did not get from German websites, which I do follow a bit, that they are now closing all borders. Maybe Grapperhaus knows something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u147	Mrs. Ploumen and then Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u148	I was wondering if the Prime Minister had answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u149	Only about curfew have I tried to answer the questions. All the questions that remain about education and work I still have to answer, and a few more individual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u150	The curfew is, we all think, a hugely radical measure. So we need to know what we are doing, we need to know whether it is effective and we need to know how to get rid of it. On that last point, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what process is envisaged to do so. For just saying 'we hope we get rid of it and then you will hear it' is not enough for the Labour Party. What are the moments of measurement? What are the arguments? In what way are you going to refer that to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u151	It is precisely so, and there is still real uncertainty about this, that we must let the Chamber know on 2 February how the situation develops until 9 February. Because the lockdown runs until February 9. In fact, the curfew and the additional advice on one person at home are also the travel restrictions, but they go on for longer, until we can take the quarantine measures additional to what we already had in the lockdown until 9 February. On 2 February we inform the Chamber of what the Cabinet intends to do after 9 February on the basis of the latest insights of experts, opinions and opinions. Then there are actually three possibilities when you have the curfew in mind. Possibility one: the sky is broken open and no more measures are needed. That seems unlikely, given the current state of epidemiology. Possibility two is that measures are still needed. But then, for this cabinet, absolute priority is not to allow one measure to go ahead. I cannot guarantee that 100%, because you never know exactly what the situation is, and that is that curfew. Possibility three is that it's so terrible that that curfew still has to go on. But again, we hope for one, we expect two. I can only tell you that as soon as something opens up, education opens, and primary education in there. In any case, we have said about primary education: the only factor we are still looking at is not even the number of infections, but the infection among children. The first signals are positive. Further study is now being carried out. That is why we hope to be able to do something for this earlier than 9 February. So that's basic education. But the rest of the education is also a priority, because closing the schools is actually the worst, worst measure we have taken, perhaps even worse than the whole curfew. When it comes to enlargement, it is a priority, and when it comes to stopping action, the curfew is the first thing we are absolutely all keen to do. But I can't guarantee that with 100% certainty. 'Cause if the R blows up, you're gonna have to look at it again. But at the moment there is no indication that it develops differently from the trajectories that RIVM and OMT show. They have always been very good at predicting developments in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u152	Good. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u153	Then we'll meet in the week of February 2nd...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u154	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u155	... in a chamber debate in which the Prime Minister explains to us what the state of affairs is and what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u156	In any case, if the curfew were very, very, very unexpectedly still in it, I would like to take a look at Ferd. Then that would also require explicit parliamentary approval, because of the extension law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u157	Clear. Then my second question, about enforcement. Police and boas play an important role in that, but they're already overloaded. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister himself what the cabinet is going to do to ensure that they can continue to do their job properly, that it can be maintained but that other tasks can also be carried out. I'd like another answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u158	That's what we're gonna try to do, of course. Especially in the beginning, in order to regulate the curfew properly, enforcement will be very visible. Because you also want to show the Netherlands that there is something new. Of course, that starts with the most important thing that we all comply with the measures ourselves. Enforcement takes place through frequent and intensive statistical but also dynamic controls. Of course, you don't always try to do everything with just visibility, but it will also be necessary. Public communication will become very important; we spend a lot of time in it. The behavioral unit of the RIVM says that it is important to set the social standard. This House debate also helps in this; the fact that we discuss this with each other in the plenum of democracy. The curfew takes into account the capacity planning of the agents. Certainly in the first phase, this will of course require prioritization and choices. We can't suddenly find new agents for that, so that will inevitably require prioritization. That is also necessary. Additional services will be planned where necessary. In order not to put too much pressure on the police, the police will also provide assistance. In this way, we can arrive at a credible enforcement of curfew. This method of enforcement is in line with what is happening in Belgium, for example. That's where it turns out the curfew can be maintained if you do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u159	A passionate speech by the Prime Minister why we are taking additional measures. That is very understandable given the concerns about the British mutation and the development of the virus in the Netherlands in the coming weeks, but I would ask the Prime Minister to go into more detail as to why curfew is needed as a shovel on top of it at this time. When you hear the first term of the Chamber, there is no difference in opinion that additional measures need to be taken now, but many parties have rightly pointed out that 25% of people have to go to the office or shop because the boss does not accept people working at home. There has also been mention of restrictions on entry, which the cabinet is about to do. Are such measures not sufficient at present to keep the R below 1 in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u160	No. Quite honestly: these travel restrictions are going to help you, but really limited, because there is not that much coming from abroad to the Netherlands. But it's gonna help you. It also helps, I think, in what we all feel: the irritation that we stick to the rules here and then continue to fly in planes from the UK. So it is also very important in the picture, but it helps limited in real printing of the reproduction factor. But it helps, so you have to do it. There was a motion from the Chamber, but we looked at it again and said: can we do it now? We have always approached it from the point of view of the problem. In the end, we said that we approach the other way around, from "how could it be?', And then we said, "We're gonna do it." The second is to extend the list of opinions. Think, for example, of receiving one person at home instead of two. The problem is that these are opinions. In practice, in the group of younger people, the number of people receiving three or more people is still significant. This is also significant for the group over 20, 25 years old. This rises to about a quarter of the Netherlands, which still receives more than two people at home. We're going back to one's advice now. That will have an absolute impact, but it's an advice. You can't maintain that. Of course you can maintain the flight ban, but that in turn has a more limited effect. Given that the reproduction factor of the old virus is just below 1 and that of the English variant above 1.3, we fear based on the latest knowledge, we are not doing enough now. We need to do more to give that punch now. There is a high number of infected people in the Netherlands and there is still too high a reproductive factor, but in itself the English virus is still at a level where you can try to push it back by doing extra things. That also gives you a little more chance that there will be a faster perspective. I'll add something to that. Now that we have so many heavy measures and now that we have this problem of the English virus, we have to do things. That brings you, paradoxically, as Hans van Mierlo would say, to the possibility of offering a little more perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u161	That perspective is extremely important; I will come back to that in a moment. But the curfew is a measure that affects all Dutch people. The Prime Minister explains very well that certain groups do not comply with the agreements on how many people you are allowed to receive and what you do at home at night. So you choose a measure for the whole of the Netherlands because you see that certain groups do not respect the corona measures properly. Then I'm actually surprised that we don't push home work any further and don't push companies any harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u162	Yeah, but I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u163	In recent weeks, we have seen an increase in the number of infections at work, while the number of infections in the home environment has decreased in recent weeks. Why didn't the cabinet choose to sit much firmer on that homework, but to immediately grab the curfew?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u164	Working at home is gonna help, too. It's actually en-and-and-and. When I listen to the Chamber like that, there are two irritations with all of us, including me. One, how do you deal with cluster outbreaks? Two: how do you deal with people who have a job that you can also practice at home and whose employer says you should come to the office anyway? So I understand the criticism of the Chamber. If I may first say something about cluster outbreaks: it now works so that the GGD, as cluster outbreaks occur, can shut down the work. In the case of complaints from people who say they can work at home but that they are forced to come to the office anyway, the Arbowet makes it possible in extreme cases to stop the work. However, the possibilities offered by the Temporary Law measures covid-19 are not enough to really intervene harder. The most far-reaching step would be for us to decide who can work at home or not. That doesn't seem wise to me, because you can't determine exactly for every job whether or not you can do it at home. However, there is, in my view, the question of how to deal with inspection reports and how to ensure that those reports are followed up. I think we should look again very quickly at the powers that the law gives us on those two points. One: if there are cluster breaks, can you not only shut down the work, but also effectively shut down the company? With a recent ruling, the closure of a company has now been dismissed by the court. So our understanding now is that the work can be shut down by the GGD, but that it is legally necessary for the company to close down. As far as the effective follow-up to signals from the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate is concerned, too, I must say that the old Labour Inspectorate... can stop work with the temporary extension of the Arbowet if the employer does not take measures to prevent contamination on the work floor. What you should of course look at more closely is whether as a government, if someone can clearly work at home but cannot do so from his employer, you can say: in this case he can work at home and then he can work at home. Once again, against this, we would therefore know exactly what kind of work that is possible at home. Then you actually get a homework obligation; that is the next step, but that requires an argument about which work should be at home and which work may still be at the office or at another location because presence there is really necessary. I think we should be careful that we should be able to know exactly where this is going through customisation in all business processes. Can I summarize it so that I agree with the Chamber that we should do more? Maybe in the second term there will be some reflections on this from the Chamber, but I would like to say that we, as a cabinet, will soon follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u165	I am very pleased with that, because with regard to visible enforcement as an example and as a deterrent, we have of course seen in recent months that a hairdresser who opens up receives an immediate fine of €4,000 or that a catering entrepreneur who does not comply with the rules has immediately boas on the doorstep, while a lot of employers, larger employers and offices have not had anyone on the doorstep yet despite all these reports at the inspection. I therefore welcome this commitment. The Prime Minister was just talking about 9 February as the preferred date for the curfew to end again, but we have of course seen over the past year that a lot of measures to be taken by the Cabinet come on horseback and go on foot. So I would like to hear from the Prime Minister a little more about how this consideration will be made in the coming weeks. Is the cabinet going to look purely at the R-value to determine whether the curfew should last longer than two weeks or not? Or will the cabinet also consider mental aspects? How is this choice made? How's that knot getting cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u166	We always do. The same applies to the economic aspects. These seem limited to me, but this certainly applies to the mental consequences in this case. Look, you can see right now, of course, that there are still too many infections. There are great concerns about the English virus, but there is also the feeling that if you do extra things because of that infection, you also offer a second effect, namely that you make something more visible what the possibilities are to expand again. If that is the case, then it is not unlikely that there will still be anything after 9 February, our view is that that curfew is the first thing you take away with a very large cross. However, you could then ask me if I can guarantee that. I can't, but it's true that the Chamber specifically about that curfew... look, you can't send us away as a cabinet anymore. Strictly speaking, you could say crazy enough that we now have more power than we did last Friday, no, I'm fainting for a moment, but that doesn't apply to that curfew. On the subject of that curfew, the Chamber must also agree by means of an extension law. There too, at curfew, we must have a parliamentary majority in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u167	It is good to hear that, because I think we should always look at the infections and the R-number, but also at the social impact of this measure. Finally, about that time. It may seem like a small point, but it's not. In recent days, too, a lot of people have climbed into the pen to email us; I think that is true for all colleagues. Those people say: I do see that something has to happen, but a curfew that goes in at 8:00 or 8:30 just means that besides working at home and teaching at home, I just don't get around to doing my shopping or emptying my head during a walk or during sports. People who are inclined to accept such a curfew for a number of weeks simply don't see how to keep it up if that curfew starts too early. There are many European countries that have put the curfew at 10 p.m. for that reason. Mr Van Dissel also said yesterday: 'Between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m.; you must choose an arbitrary time somewhere'. Then why not make this arbitrary choice before 10 p.m., like the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u168	France has 18.00 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u169	In combination with open shops and restaurants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u170	I know there are all these differences, but once again, with regard to the question of where the curfew is still effective, the advisers tell us that it is really between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m. We also discussed this with Van Dissel and then we looked at it ourselves. If you're gonna set it later, it's gonna go really fast. So I think that if we support the idea of curfew, we should try to really prick the time between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m. that would really be my question and not over 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u171	Finally. In "between 8:00 and 9:00 p.m." there is a bit of space. At least that's more than the 8.30 p.m. that's in there right now. I would also point out that in countries with early curfews in the Czech Republic and in Paris you can see that the crowds in the supermarkets, in public transport etc. are very big in the last hour they are open. Today, in fact, all sports unions and youth workers say that within the time limit between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. they offer young people and adults so many activities now to make something of that day that 8.30 p.m. doesn't really go, because then people won't have time to get home from those activities. So I really want to give you that: an early curfew really does a lot with the support in society and also with the mental health of a lot of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u172	We had him in our minds initially from 8:00 to 4:00. We then moved it in our internal discussion to 8.30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Know that you're still inside that window, that window, of the OMT advice, which has been thought through. That, of course, also had to do with that point of the hustle and bustle in the supermarket. If you put it a little later, it's gonna take a lot more pressure. On the other hand, this is particularly true in the larger cities. If you look at the countryside, you can see that most supermarkets are closed much earlier. In any case, the call to do the groceries in the morning when it is quiet applies to the whole of the Netherlands. But I get the point. It's just true. Which is why I think you should stick him somewhere between 8:00 and 9:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u173	Then Mr Van der Staaij. I'm thinking a little bit about the remark that a outgoing cabinet has more power. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u174	No, no, no, but they can't send us away anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u175	No, not twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u176	I want to warn the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u177	It can be personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u178	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u179	The individual rulers are still to be sent away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u180	I take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u181	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u182	On the contrary, the chances of individual rulers becoming victims are greater. But all the crazy on a stick, about that curfew. What we heard yesterday at the technical briefing was clear, but it also shows the uncertainties honestly. We don't know exactly how it's gonna work out. There could be a third wave. We have assumptions and uncertainties. This could contribute. I get all that. But at the same time it is not inescapablely imperative that it should be so and not otherwise. So I think it is very important to be able to weigh up the disadvantages of loneliness and vulnerability of people; you name it all. I am asking the Prime Minister this question, because Mr Van Dissel is right to say that we are not talking about this; we can well calculate what it does for the R1, but otherwise it is a political weighting. So how did you weigh this as a cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u183	Then I have to show you some of the discussions we had in our little group, in the ministerial committee and in the whole cabinet. Roughly, in these discussions, three options were mixed up to a different extent; not exactly, I say before all kinds of pieces are requested. One is: back to zero house call. We have made the assessment that if we say that you should not receive anyone at home, the practical disadvantage is that it is an advice and therefore difficult in enforcement if people do not comply with it. But also socially it has a huge impact to say that you can't receive anyone anymore. That is, of course, dramatic. The second option is stay at home. So that goes far beyond curfew. That would be a bit like the Spanish or French lockdown from March and April, where you can only get so many meters outside your house and therefore no one should receive, unless it lives nearby perhaps, but also not really. Option three is the curfew, also based on the fact that it is now working in many countries and we asked the OMT if it could somehow get what the effect is. The OMT actually did two things. It has calculated the curfew for us, but has also come up with an update of their views on the enormous concerns surrounding the English virus. Last weekend they were done orally and last Tuesday they came on paper in the OMT opinion. Those two things came together. We were thinking about how to act if there were to be some extras, knowing that there was a Chamber speech about the curfew, but that other variants are much worse. The curfew also has enormous social risks, loneliness risks and consequences, but it is not impossible to visit someone during the day or at the beginning of the evening or to have contact with them. So there is still something possible in those two weeks, which would absolutely not be possible if you followed the advice of not receiving anyone anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u184	I understand that, but what I, as a parliamentarians, find difficult in assessing the proportionality of measures is that on the one hand I get very precise, detailed information on what it does for the R1, down to the details with diagrams and graphs, but on the other hand I hear less. Think of loneliness and young people who are already suffering from suicide. There are very general general comments on this. I'd like to hear your assessment of that situation. Is that worrying, serious, very serious? How is that weighed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u185	Worried to be serious, I'd say. In our meetings we always help the Social and Cultural Planning Office in this area. In the area of the economy, De Nederlandsche Bank helps us. So we always have that expertise at the table, but it is not very easy to calculate a kind of R for the social consequences. That's a weighting. We have made the weighting that no one received would have a much greater impact on social life than a curfew, while it still has a huge impact. Everything we have been doing since March/April and certainly since mid-October, has a huge impact. Yesterday I said from the bottom of my heart that I'm done too. I think that applies to everyone in the Netherlands. Only, you know that there are always people who have it much heavier, because they have to deal with people who are sick or dead. There are also people who themselves have vulnerable health. There are people who struggle with mental problems and are therefore particularly affected by such measures. Then you are already inclined to say: my suffering is very small compared to the suffering of people who are triple or quadrupled by the sum of issues. But of course it has consequences for everyone and peeling off especially for people with weak health, people with mental problems, single people, older people, people who can't cuddle their grandchildren and you name it. It's all horrible. But finally, in the weighing between no one received, staying completely at home with a few meters outside your home or curfew, it is plausible that the curfew of those three is better than the other two, although still very intense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u186	It is a truth like a cow that the most far-reaching measure is still the most far-reaching one. I have another question about this measure. I read in the socio-scientific studies and the analyses sent to us by the cabinet: the longer measures take, the more they chop into it. Our concern, my concern, is how stretchy the elastic is in the end given all the measures we already have, and this one on top of it. What can and can you still ask of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u187	Yes. Hugo de Jonge will also say something about the social side in a moment, but there is of course no great precision in measures. We try to take a lot of initiatives with each other. There is also a great deal happening in society. Look at the churches and the civil society organisations. At all, this is a country in which we are grunting at each other until there are problems and then we are going to help each other. It's gonna be okay. That is also a reason why this is a special and fine country to live in. But those effects are there. Those effects are there, and if it takes longer, they get more intense. If you look at what is going on epidemiologically, then on the other hand, on the basis of all this advice, it is our absolute conviction that we are taking an unacceptable risk if we do not take additional measures now. Plus, by doing that now you have a bit more perspective view. Again, those are the two sides of the coin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u188	Mrs Dik-Faber and then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u189	These are bizarre times. The government is taking bizarre measures, but we are also dealing with a bizarre virus that makes many people seriously ill, floodes care and also causes excess mortality in our country. I have just heard a compelling speech from the Prime Minister about why the curfew is now really necessary. Honestly, my mailbox is overflowing, just like many others, I think. In capital letters I see that people are really too much. They just don't make it anymore, emotionally. I also see a group of people who say: we understand that this is necessary, but what does that mean for me? Then let me get some out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u190	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u191	These are, for example, the carers. They say: I really want to go to my mother's house at night, who lives 15 minutes away, to help her sleep. Those are the people who work with a personal budget. It is simply not clear to them whether they can continue to provide care in the evening hours, as they have always done. Those are also the spiritual caretakers, of whatever denomination, who want to visit to give people spiritual support. That just isn't always planned in office hours. So I ask the Prime Minister what the perspective is for these people, for the carers, for the pbbs and for the mental caregivers. And there's more. Perhaps this will become clear in the course of time, but it is now about these three groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u192	In any case, there is an exception for carers and those who provide help to people in need. They're not under curfew. That's what Ferd Grapperhaus continues on, with detailing and so on. But here's the thing about care. Can Ferd Grapperhaus prepare himself for the questions about the pgb-holders? I think they're covered in curfew. But if they then need care, then the care they receive is not covered by curfew. That's what I'm saying. But those other two groups you mention, i.e. people who provide help to the needy, carers in general, are an exception for curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u193	How will it be dealt with in practice? Of course, I have also seen that there has also been a discussion with the cabinet from mundanezorg.nl. I also welcome the fact that these talks are being held. But people now see a curfew in the newspaper, they're used to caring, they're used to giving spiritual assistance. How do we ensure that people can continue to do this in an easy way without huge administrative procedures or that people withdraw out of fear because they think "I shouldn't actually do that"? As a government, we should want this to continue, that people should not have to worry and that the necessary and spiritual care can always be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u194	I couldn't agree more. This also means that we have to deal with this in such a way that we have to keep it as simple as possible and with good information. So people don't back down because they think "it's too complicated administratively" or "I don't get it at all." So it has to be very clear. But let me say here for those who follow the debate that we are going to arrange it for those who provide professional assistance to the needy, those who provide care, people in the family or in the circle of friends, as simple as possible administratively as possible. They may also cross the street after 8 p.m. or 9 p.m., or what the exact time is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u195	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u196	The need for action is evident, and that is not disputed by anyone here in the Chamber, nor by us. However, the draconian measure of curfew is presented as a golden egg that has been hidden for months, that now appears and that is the solution to everything. That is, of course, what bothers me not only, and many political parties, but above all many people in the country. Mr Van der Staaij had a really right point when it comes to the psychological effects on the population. Then you can see the differences. There is also scientific research that clearly indicates: that is absolutely essential when it comes to formulating the measures. I really do miss the Prime Minister's assessment, because I see that a lot is being based on epidemiology figures, especially from the OMT, and the OMT is not united on that either. We have seen several prominent members of the OMT at talk show tables and in the newspapers saying: such a curfew is actually not such a good idea. What is the Prime Minister's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u197	That was one, Gommers, but he said yesterday, on the basis of the latest figures: I do see the need. Furthermore, of course, there will always be experts who will find something else. But the OMT really agrees with me on this. I also agree with Mr Kuzu that there are, of course, alternatives, which I have just outlined in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. In doing so, we have tried to make a weighting that cannot be as precise as you would like, but it must also be political and social. That is a task for us as politicians. Again, this is not in money but in measures: the choices make in scarcity of measures to reduce that reproductive factor with the English virus, while at the same time weighing between those different possibilities. In that choice, of course, you look at the consequences, socially and above all for people. I myself, of course, think of family members and friends of mine who are having a hard time or people I otherwise know, colleagues, and so everyone will have those images in mind. Of course, you try to abstract it from that, because otherwise it all becomes anecdotal. So, of course, you're trying to look at what the experts say in a broader social context. That is why it is so important that the SCP is always at the meetings through the Director. So, of course, you try not to make a quantitative but qualitative weighting and to say: what is wise now? Then there's two things to play with. One is the enforcement; then I come on the hard side of the matter. That is that advice such as "do not receive anyone at home" can also not be maintained, especially if you know that even now a part of the people receive more than two people. And two is that it is so that I come to the point that Mr Kuzu brings here, of course, socially has such an enormous impact on the unity of people. That is, we think, much worse: if you say "you're not receiving anyone" or "you're staying at home" versus a curfew. So I don't want to reduce that curfew; it's very big. But that is, of course, the weighting. We didn't keep anything in the sock like Mr. Kuzu said, or in the ball pit. We are now faced with this additional risk, combined with a possibility that at this stage of the lockdown by fighting that risk you can also offer a slightly earlier perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u198	In my view, this is one of the essential points. I see the Prime Minister here clearly showing empathy for the social consequences of robust measures. That is also what concerns civil society organisations, the Health and Health Council and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Well, then it's really about the trade-off, isn't it? You have the chilly persistence, but on the other hand, you have the point of social consequences. In my view, these are really not enough if, on the one hand, the Prime Minister has an empathic story about concern, about unification and so on, but on the other hand, he wants to introduce this harsh measure, which is strongly inspired by epidemiology, and totally disregards the social consequences of such a draconian measure. I'm really wondering how that trade-off is gonna come about. On the one hand, you have the hard numbers of the Outbreak Management Team, but on the other hand you have stacks of scientific literature, stacks of documentation, newspaper articles, media reports and so on about the social consequences of this draconian measure. Surely that should lead the Prime Minister to the conclusion that such a curfew is a measure that you should not wish for and should not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u199	Yeah, I totally agree with him. I'd rather not, but there's another...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u200	Then don't do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u201	Yeah, but... I'm perplexed. No, of course you don't want curfew. I agree with Mr Kuzu: a curfew is an absurd proposal. But why is it on the table? Because there's something else going on: the virus. That now has a mutation with a hugely high dispersal factor, which can lead to a failure to intervene now, while it is still reasonable to control it, to create an unmanageable situation with enormous consequences, again for people with vulnerable health, the elderly and hospitals. The first question to ask, if that is what Mr Kuzu means: do you want to do something, given that high health risk and therefore the risk to public health? You can also make the choice not to, but I don't think that's something anyone wants. When you say, "Okay, we gotta do something," you gotta see what the alternatives are. Then I'll outline a few that have also been discussed: no one received, stay at home at all, the curfew. You will, of course, look at the social impact of such a measure in conjunction with what it has to do in practice because you can or cannot maintain it. What do experts say about that? Of course, we've asked the OMT to do this as well. That says, weighing everything up, you really should do this one. We have said: we take that conclusion, considering the alternatives. Yeah, that's how you do it. That is the political and social weighting that we must combine here as a cabinet and a chamber of sovereignty, given the legislation on this type of subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u202	In any case, it is very clear that my group is making a different assessment than the cabinet and probably also a majority of the House of Representatives, now D66 seems to have been turned. The point is, of course, that this has far-reaching consequences for the population and that a few months later, or perhaps from now on, we will see different reports every day about further unification, an increase in anxiety disorders and depressions, an increase in suicide attempts and so on. I really think that the Prime Minister is looking blindly at short-term measures that may have an effect in the short term, but in the long term are really destroying our society. That's just not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u203	But then I have a question back to Mr Kuzu. Is he saying that you shouldn't do anything extra on top of the lockdown right now, given that the English virus now stands at 10%, grows to 50% and in March, April to 100%, and seems to have a spread risk of 1.3? Then you can calculate what that means: 10,000, 30,000, 50,000 infectiouss per day. That means a total flood of care. That's not "we have to cancel operations" anymore; it just means there's code black. Well, that's the alternative, isn't it? I'm trying to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u204	That is absolutely not an alternative. I have also made it clear in my contribution that you should not do nothing, that you should at least maintain the existing measures better. They have passed by today: that you not only advise homework without obligation, but also will respect what you're going to do about it, because that's one of the main causes of infection, that you need to combat cluster formation in supermarkets, especially when you come up with a measure like a lockdown that will cause accumulation at certain times, and that you're going to maintain more. I shared a tweet yesterday that I wanted to go for a run. I walked through the city, I walked through Rotterdam, and then I saw a group of people really standing together and forming a cluster. It is precisely in these areas that you really should be better enforced, rather than resorting to a draconian measure like this, which is destroying society. That's not what we need to do. We need to improve the enforcement of existing measures and ensure that they are respected. Then we're definitely coming a long way, is my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u205	Then my point of view would be that we are in agreement with half of it. Yes, you have to do all those things that Mr Kuzu calls the exact measure you have to agree very precisely, but that really isn't enough. It's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u206	Mrs Van Esch, then Mr Klaver and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u207	Around Christmas, I think it became known how dangerous the British variant was. Then, as the Netherlands, we decided to impose a flight ban for two days for the United Kingdom and South Africa. After two days, we figured out a brilliant solution: we're going to enter that PCR test. Legally, that wasn't even sustainable at the time. I wonder if the Prime Minister regrets withdrawing the flight ban that only lasted two days around Christmas. Shouldn't we have done that differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u208	Yes, for everything we do, the evaluation will show that it was too early or too late. And if it was on time, it was too little or too much. It always is. I think it is a good thing that we are taking the step together now, also encouraged by the motion of D66 and GroenLinks, to stop wanting this type of flight, except for two or three very exceptional cases. In fact, it is made impossible to fly from South Africa, South America and the United Kingdom. I think that's good. At that time we were the most far-reaching in Europe, I would like to say in defence. And the PCR test is now much wider. We are now going the furthest in Europe at the moment, with the additional antigen test just before departure. Pff, it goes for everything: also looking at last summer we have often said to each other "had you made the scale plan differently given the run-up afterwards." For example, there are many things that you try to solve with each other decisively with 50% knowledge on the basis of progressive insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u209	I ask this question because we are now on the eve of the possible setting of a curfew, when we already knew at Christmas how dangerous that British variant was. At Christmas we had a flight ban for two days. After that, the entire airspace was reopened. Well, two days. During that whole time from Christmas to now, until 21 January, we know that all those flights just came to the Netherlands. And the percentage is rising. I think we can all now see that we are too late with this flight ban. We have already reached 10%, so it is already in the Netherlands. A flight ban like that now almost feels like mustard after dinner. I welcome the fact that it is still being introduced, but the Animal Party has been asking for flight bans since October. And every time this government says: that's not proportional, that's not proportional, it's not legally enforceable, we can't do it, we can't do it, we can't do it, we're going to go to other measures. And now we also have to set a curfew, when we already knew on Christmas how dangerous it was. I keep wondering, how is that possible? We've seen it with the testing, we see it all the time, we see it now with the flight ban. How can we be late again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u210	We were the first in Europe to do it. With the PCR test, we were very early. We're the first to ask for the antigen test. That's one. Two. It's not like flying is the biggest problem for the infections and the spread. It contributes, but it's not the main point. Three. Once again with Mrs Van Esch, our thinking has simply moved on. That is true, but it will often be that we have to say afterwards: were we too heavy or did we do too little, were we too early or too late and, if we were on time, was it enough or not enough? That will be the case in the fight against this epidemic all the time, I'm afraid. In the evaluation, when it comes, this will undoubtedly be a question: how have they dealt with these flight bans in England; perhaps they should have done so by then? I can't exactly estimate that now, but I think it's good to take this measure now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u211	Rounding up. I am still curious as to what the specific reason was for lifting the flight ban after two days, despite the fact that there was no legal durability of that PCR test. I do not think there has been enough thought at the time. I'm curious about that. I see the Prime Minister nodding. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u212	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u213	And I'm also curious how long we're going to keep up the flight ban that's been set up. That too seems to me to be something that we might have to do longer than other measures we have until 8 February. I wonder if that's been thought through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u214	That could take four weeks. That is also possible for this type of flight bans on non-EU countries, because you have to do it every two weeks. Of course, we want to replace it with the mandatory quarantine and other measures, but that will take some time. It's gonna go on next Saturday. Now, I'd say take four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u215	For the record, there are no easy choices to make here. My group would not hesitate for a second to agree to the proposal for a curfew if you really said that this would help. The question is: is this the measure you need to take? The concern of our group concerns not only the social consequences, but also the impact. So I have the question of what else has been considered by the cabinet. Has any thought been given to working with social bubbles? Has there also been a look at the return of contacts and asking people to form a bubble and live in it with each other over the next three weeks until 9 February? That's pretty intense, too. I wonder if that has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u216	Yeah, we've looked into that and I'm not ruling out the possibility that we'll come back to that. The tricky thing about bubbles and the reduction of two to zero amounts, which has also been considered, but not for long, because of the enormous social consequences of this or from two to one, what we do do, is that they are advice. Bubbles are also advice. You can't maintain it. In the end, we said: it is something you can look at and contribute to. But also the OMT says to us: do that curfew, because it is immediately enforceable. You have a much greater chance of seeing the effect you want to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u217	As far as I am concerned, there is a weakness in the reasoning. The police unions, the boas and the mayors indicate that this is a very difficult rule to enforce. But I have another very important point. RIVM's Behaviour Unit has already pointed out to us several times that, if we have to maintain and impose bans, that is not the way to deal with each other for a long time. In the end, it's about communication. You have to make sure people really follow the advice. My question to the cabinet is how we are going to ensure that all the cases already agreed are followed. I don't see that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u218	Minister Grapperhaus will go into that in a moment, if that's all right. Communication will be very important when entering the curfew. 'Cause it's gotta be good right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u219	Mr President, I am not concerned with communication around curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u220	No, no, I heard what you said. It's also about what you're already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u221	Yes, because most of the profits can be made in limiting the visit at home and limiting the people who go to work in the office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u222	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u223	The curfew is the means to achieve those two goals. That's how I see it. I think we all agree on the goal, but the question is what exactly is the means to do that. It's about compliance: do people follow it? That's what communication is very important for. There are a number of people in the country who deliberately do not do this and who think: it is all nonsense. That's a small minority. There is also a very large group that speaks well for certain behavior. Let's be honest: I think we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u224	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u225	And then it's about being aware of what you should and shouldn't do every time. What does the Cabinet do about it? I haven't seen any extra effort on that in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u226	We have a lot of target campaigns. We do not all see them, because then we do not belong to the target group. There's been a lot of talk. We try, in our press moments, which get bizarrely high ratings, to get all the rules of conduct back every time. It's about the kind of words and the metaphors and so on that you choose to reach as many people as possible. I think that we are, in any case, socially a society with limited income disparities, with great social cohesion. We're mostly a happy country. The statistics on how the average Dutchman is in his skin show that we are prepared to do something for each other. We are, of course, trying as politically to make the best use of that fact. I am also Dutch myself, so I also look at what works on me and on Jesse Klaver, but of course then scientifically objectified. So very once. It's communication. It is a call for joint action. But in the end it is, where it is necessary and where it can be, also forcing. That's part of it. It's not just long live the fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u227	I've been in favour of a flight ban for a long time, and I think there should be a quarantine obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u228	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u229	In places, therefore, you will have to work with prohibitions and impose penalties if employers do not comply with the requirements. We've been discussing the cure for a long time now, the curfew. That seems sacred. I'm looking for the space for other resources you have at your disposal. I think there is still a great deal of profit to be gained from communicating very well and transferring it to people, even when it comes to social bubbles. You could say: who are you to think so, because we are doing our very best. This is what all behavioral scientists tell us all the time. They say that a great deal of money is being put into maintaining the economy and that all kinds of new measures are being devised. Every press conference, we are eagerly looking forward to the new measure, or rather with fear and trembling. But the measures that are there are not wrong. Actually, those are the things we have to do. Therefore, how is the cabinet going to ensure that these matters are better respected? It's not enough to say we have curfew, and that's all we can do. He's not gonna make a difference in this fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u230	No, and then you make mistakes in communication. A dear friend of mine, a former member of the SP working in disability care, reminded me that people with intellectual disabilities sometimes take the advice "wash your hands broken" literally, with huge consequences. So I'm not using that advice anymore. I'm talking about "wash your hands for a long time," and not "wash your hands for a long time." You see how you make mistakes in that with the best of intentions. I agree with you. You have to do it all. So there are three things. You must have measures that you also maintain. If you enter the curfew in the Belgian way, it seems to be possible. At least that's the experience there. The second is that communication is crucial. Based on the best expertise we have, we always try to choose the message in such a way that it reaches as many people as possible in a way that doesn't irritate people, but encourages them to join together. Fortunately, most people in the Netherlands have this predisposition. And you are, of course, trying to maximise the support for the long-term implementation of all measures. That is always in combination with the care for the virus, but also with the perspective we all crave. That is not very difficult, because in the end we are all in the middle of this mess ourselves, or Hugo de Jonge keeps that story or me, or Jesse Klaver talks about it. With us, this is not as bad as with people who are hit twice or triple because they are dealing with people who have died or are sick or who are very worried about them. But primarily, it does, because it affects the lives of all of us, as we are here, in a huge way. This is not just for the lower-educated, but also for the higher-educated and for everyone. I know people at all social levels that you thought were very strong in their shoes, who are now also starting to sigh. I get it, you know. Of course, that goes for me as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u231	I think we know all the stories and we see it all happening in our own environment. We see that fatigue occurs, and that people say: the last bit of freedom I have left is taken away from me. That is why I would like to refer once again to the advice that came from the RIVM behavior unit. That was part of the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u232	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u233	They say: "Think about the timing: too quickly introducing a curfew gives risks of acceptance and compliance with these measures (and indirectly the whole corona strategy)." That's quite a warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u234	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u235	How did the cabinet weigh this, now that it says: we should actually introduce this week with steam and boiling water, with a press conference halfway through the week, now the debate and then the introduction as soon as possible? How is this opinion weighted? To be honest, one of my major concerns at the moment is that because of the huge debate and the unrest people are trying to see the proportionality but cannot always see it, that this reduces the acceptance and that the measure could have the opposite effect of what we are aiming for. How is that weighted by the cabinet, given that this is pushed through? I'm saying it a little unkindly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u236	At least that's not my intention. Nor has the intention been to force parties here to make a choice. We made a commitment to the Chamber once that we would do this only after a parliamentary debate. In any case, the legal introduction after a number of days must also be made by the Chamber. But let me return to Mr Klaver's key question. The current lockdown runs until February 9. Last week, in our request for advice to the Outbreak Management Team, we asked again for advice on curfew or alternatives, if necessary to do extra things. That's what the OMT gave me. In doing so, it provided the new analysis of the facts. When we sat informally together on Sunday, a report of these meetings is now being prepared, as I told you on Tuesday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday were formally together, we had to deal with the opinion on not only curfews and alternatives, but also the latest state of epidemiology. Then it works in the Netherlands that we need a number of days for decision-making, plus for these specific measures also the parliament. After the parliament finds something about it, it always takes at least two days before it can enter. You want to try to tie it up with the period until February 9th. I hope and think it will work out in this way, because we have the social debate together, because of the timetable, the OMT advice, and the discussion in the cabinet and in the political groups, everyone in the Netherlands sees that this is a mature democracy in which political parties struggle: my own party, but actually everyone here in the Chamber is trying to make choices. Some say: take the decision vigorously instead of that emmerger with all those discussions. But in my belief it is precisely the Dutch culture of discussing good with each other, but no longer than is really necessary, that is to say five to six days that leads to more support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u237	Mr. Heerma. You traded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u238	Yes, Mr Van Haga put me first because I actually wanted to move on to the penultimate question, namely Mr Klaver's. Although several parties have asked questions about this in the first term, I do not think that the Prime Minister is giving a serious enough answer. More action is needed. I have already stated in my first term that my group sees and supports this. At the same time, however, we see that the advice of hand washing is hardly being followed, or ever less. People observe the 1.5 meters less. We also see the metal fatigue: for what do I do it? I have asked the Prime Minister very clearly what perspective he can outline for the Dutch who understand that it is necessary, but who wonder how they can keep it up. Mr Klaver's question was how to intensify the communication of existing measures and the appeal made to Dutch people. More can happen to make people feel like: I'm holding on to this, I'm holding on to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u239	The easiest of the two is the question of perspective. Then I'll go into the hardest question: how do you get people "set up" again? Maybe we should do more there, including through this discussion. Mr Klaver is asking for that too. Maybe we're not doing that enough right now. Let me answer that question first. I have nothing more to say now than that De Jonge and I are trying to involve this as conscientiously as possible in all communication from the government. Let me just say that in the next progress letter we will put the whole communication back on the screen and see where we can intensify it through campaigns and other things. But Mr Heerma is right that this should always be combined with perspective. Because no matter how many times you say you have to wash your hands or do your sister or something, if that doesn't lead to a feeling of light at the end of the tunnel, it won't work. It's complicated. I want to be very honest about that. I believe that the cabinet should share with the Netherlands what we know, including the perspective we know. The good news since December is the perspective of the vaccine et cetera, so you know that at some point there is a sufficient degree of vaccination so that there can be much more. At the same time, it is fair to say that you cannot vaccinate from that third wave. That is just too slow, because these vaccines are not enough. So it's not the capacity, it's the number of vaccines. So you have to take extra measures, but in combination with them. So we return to the old normal, hopefully still well in this year, but the fast way back to the old normal is vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u240	The Prime Minister finally addressed the most difficult question, but very briefly, and then for a very long time to answer the easiest question. Maintaining perspective is very important. And yet, if we go all the way back to the beginning of this crisis, there were already parties, D66 and us who said that there should be a daily coronajournaal. At the time, in March last year, that was the first idea to improve communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u241	That's what's on the talk shows every night now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u242	By the way, last week we saw that that doesn't always help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u243	It goes wrong sometimes, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u244	The Prime Minister says it's very complicated and he wants to take another look at it. That is very important. But what matters is that more really needs to be done. I'm just gonna take an example. Just before this debate began, I got a piece from the Barneveld newspaper pushed into my hands by our group secretary, Jaco Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u245	Yeah, nice paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u246	Anyway. There's an open letter from a 12-year-old girl who's been quarantined for 11 months. The text above the article is: let everyone follow the rules! It's not that hard, is it? In an open letter to the mayor with a flaming argument about her mother, who had a liver transplant, a donor liver, she writes: if I can stay in quarantine for 11 months or much longer, people can't just think about themselves, and understand why we're doing this? If I'm being completely honest, I think this letter will do more to convince people and make them feel that only a press conference with a new measure. So I'd like to give these to the Cabinet. I'm asking if there's any thought going on about creative ways. Perhaps this kind of experience expert, people who really hit it, should come to a press conference once to tell them why it is necessary, because I think it does more than what is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u247	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u248	Perhaps you could give it to all of us through the messenger, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u249	In March and April you saw that the images on television from the hospitals in Italy had a huge impact. The tricky thing, of course, is this. Of course, we are all top-level amateurs in communicating. We haven't studied for this, at least few have. But we're all top-level amateurs, because that's what we're politicians for. That is why I think it is right to ask the experts what exactly is most effective. I get the suggestion; I like it. I have just heard from Mr De Jonge that in the next letter we are really saying that we are going to discuss this kind of suggestion from the Chamber and what else we can do ourselves. But I would like to say, also to defend our administration and politics: there is an entire club that does nothing but think about communication. Those are really very good people, but they are not infallible either, and we certainly are not. So we'll get back to that next time and I'll pick up this glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u250	I have to laugh a little when the Prime Minister calls himself an amateur in communication. The essence is that there have been press conferences over and over again for months and a lot of things are being considered in communication, but that is usually also about new measures. But even washing hands is no longer respected, and people get out of the picture. I understand that people have had enough. So I'd see what he can do in the way he's communicating, so that it's felt more. This has to do with time and priority, and that is not only about the teams, because they must be very expert people, but also about the Prime Minister himself. That's really necessary, because we still have a couple of pretty complicated weeks to go with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u251	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u252	Mr. Van Haga, did you have a question about this part? Otherwise, I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen. Or is it a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u253	A new point? This whole debate is about curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u254	I'm asking because you just let Mr. Heerma go first. But go ahead, or we'll just be sitting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u255	Yeah, or it's gonna take a long time. This cabinet is terrified of the English mutation. Maybe that's right; it could be. But that fear does lead to enormous draconian measures, such as curfews. But that fear is mainly based on the R-value of 1.3 which the Prime Minister has already mentioned a few times. My question is: how hard is that R value now, and are you willing to look at it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u256	Yeah, we do it all the time. But the final insights are these. Nor is it the definitive answer; there is never any such answer in this crisis, not even in the English version. Whatever you have to consider is that in some of those countries there were few restrictions around Christmas and New Year's Eve. I believe that is what Mr Van Haga said. Apart from that, according to the analysis now, it seems to have contributed to a high number of infectious diseases, which, combined with a higher R-value, allowed it to go so fast. But there is further study on that, and of course you hope to know more and more about it. But right now, the assumption of the experts who advise us is that we really have to assume that the R value is a long way above 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u257	That is of course interesting, because the R-value of 1.3 was established by the British epidemiologist Neil Ferguson on 18 December. In the meantime, we know that in Britain, especially in London, it is completely over its peak and that bed occupancy is falling. So that R-value will have been adjusted by now. Then I am surprised that we are now a month further away and that we are still talking about an R-value of 1.3 here, whereas it has to be much lower and therefore there is a demonstrable need for other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u258	No, we find that 1.3 in the Netherlands itself. By the way, there were reports from England yesterday. Yesterday, 1,800 people died in Britain. That's an absolute low. It's a record and a low point. The latest insights from England are that it is very doubtful whether the reproductive factor has actually decreased since the turn of the year. Those are the latest reports from England. They're not exactly validating yet, but they show how insecure it is. But that 1.3 is how the Outbreak Management Team currently considers the spread of the English mutation in the Netherlands. In fact, you now have two viruses in the Netherlands. The familiar virus is at an R-value of 0.98 and the 10% of the English mutation at 1.3.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u259	Finally. Thousands of mutations are already going around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u260	They don't get 10% of the total.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u261	No, but it is quite a coincidence that on 18 December they set a value of 1.3 in Great Britain, that a lot has happened by now and that we now, a month later, come to exactly 1.3 here in the Netherlands. My advice to you or to the OMT would be to look at that again. Because if we count the wrong R-value, we're all terrified here for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u262	Let's just... At the moment, the experts and the knowledge say that this is the last insight. As a precautionary measure, we are now trying to plot the measures needed to prevent a terrible situation. We are also trying to use the current lockdown, so that we can offer a slightly earlier perspective. But of course Van Haga is right: you must always study. And if there's any new facts, we'll have to let you know, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u263	Finally, however, I would like to say a few words. You often notice that epidemiologists are too gloomy. This Mr. Ferguson is always too gloomy. You can also see it in the estimates of the OMT. They are always too gloomy; it never comes true. I would therefore ask you to take a closer look at that. If this R value is indeed much lower, for example on the basis of last week's data, then we may be able to take quite different measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u264	Just a little defense, though. Once, it may be that one scientist is more gloomy than the other. I do not think Jaap van Dissel is so gloomy, but it will be that there are also gloomy Jaap van Dissels. He's not. But also look at Jacco Wallinga, the model of RIVM. If you look at the median of expectations since March, for example with the pressure on intensive care and the pressure on hospitals, it has proved frighteningly accurate. It was frighteningly accurate, even so that at some point we said we'd hold back the sheets, see if they didn't secretly adjust the underlying trajectory to the new numbers. Well, it wasn't; it turned out to be exactly right. It is not for nothing that Jacco Wallinga is also seen internationally as one of the leading modellers on this issue. Unfortunately, he's right so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u265	The extra package of measures that is in place is extremely important for a lot of people. That's why there's still so much profit to be gained from companies that let their people come to the store, the office or the company, even though they can actually work at home. The Prime Minister just said a few words about it. If there is so much to ask of society now, on top of what is already there, the catering industry is closed, the shops are closed, the schools of our children are closed, then it is not to be explained that still a quarter of the employers do not really care about these corona measures? Because that's what it really is, and that's what I want to hear from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u266	Agreed. I feel it is an expensive duty in the conversation we have now to consider what more we can do about it. May I mention one? Those are the cluster outbreaks, including in abattoirs. Grapperhaus and Koolmees have a meeting with experts. Eventually, we want to be able to shut down those companies. Not only do we want to be able to stop the work, but we also want to be able to close the companies with a legal basis. That's one. The other is homework for people where they can, but where the company forbids it. I've already said something about that. For this purpose, the reports to the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate apply. On the basis of the Arbowet it is then possible to actually stop the work. We can't shut down the company right now. So I want, together with Grapperhaus, to see what else we can do there, to turn the buttons even further. The only thing I have any doubts about, I'm just saying that in the discussion we're having here, is whether you should go so far as to say: there's a duty to work at home. That would be the most important thing. All the experts tell us that I want to share this honestly, because that is part of the discussion that it is very difficult for the government to determine whether it is possible in a specific case to do the work at home or not. In it is my hesitation as to a duty to work at home. Mrs Marijnissen did not ask for this, I thought, but it would be the most far-reaching form. So I would like to do these two things first. I'm referring to cluster outbreaks, reports and so on. A third point I would like to make is that the inspection itself is much more frequent and calls companies and sees for itself what is going on. We're gonna pick that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u267	Thank you. With regard to cluster outbreaks, the point is that it is already too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u268	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u269	You'll be late. This is about employers forcing their staff to come, which is not necessary at all. By the way, it's very unfair. Apparently, it is still not possible to close down companies that prove to be messed up. But look what's closed: the catering industry, the theatres and the schools. They didn't do anything wrong, but they're all closed. But closing a company that makes a pot of it seems impossible. I don't think I can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u270	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u271	My other important point concerns the prevention of travel movements, the prevention of contagion and ensuring that employers follow the corona measures, as we must all do in the Netherlands. Our idea would be that there would be much stricter enforcement. That indeed means that there must be a hotline. It shouldn't get lost somewhere on a website that can't be found. That must be actively communicated, so that everyone knows: if I am forced to come to work, when it is either not safe or is not necessary................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then one of these companies knows that it might end up with his name somewhere it doesn't want to be. That really hurts, of course. That's an honest way of dealing with corona measures. Companies get away with it so easily now. If they make a mess of it, we can't shut them down while we're asking society so much. We don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u272	I agree from a to z. Only, I want to see if the term that is mentioned can be used. I shall try to clarify this as soon as possible. Grapperhaus will go into that in a moment; he has listened. Grapperhaus is about to go into that. We'll see what we can clear up today. But I share the cri du coeur; we are equally irritated about that. Let's see what's possible. There's no agenda, really zero, not to do that. One of the problems we have is that in the Twm the basis has fallen to shut down companies. We used to be able to do that with emergency regulations. So we need to take a look at what is legally necessary to deal with a few things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u273	In fact, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen was, but first Mr Klaver was on this point. Then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u274	I have a very simple question. The Prime Minister says: I fully agree with the Chamber that these companies should be closed down. I have just one question: why hasn't a legal basis been worked on in the last ten months to make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u275	It was taken from the Twm. That's the problem. In the emergency regulation it was possible, but in the Twm it has expired. That didn't happen consciously, but you just have to establish that now. Anyway, Grapperhaus has graduated completely from that in the last few days and knows the details. If we haven't done enough in there, I'd like to admit it right away. I do not want to make a political point at all and do not want to defend myself here, but I agree that we should deal with this quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u276	So that's what the Justice Minister comes back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u277	When it comes to the law technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u278	And also about how it happened. But it's not political will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u279	But it does say something about political priority. After the last ten months, we still don't have the basis for that. We all, but certainly the colleagues of the Animal Party, have constantly asked for the closure of slaughterhouses. None of that was possible. Every time it was said, it can't, it can't, it can't. They didn't work on that. The Chamber asked for it, but it wasn't working on it. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u280	Again, if that's not done enough, fine. But I believe that we have always tried to accommodate and agree on all these discussions, including with the Chamber. I understand very well that the Chamber says: 'Listen, if there is support here for something fierce like curfew, then at this point it is a double urgency.' So I don't really want to stand on that defensively. So if there hasn't happened enough there, fine. But let's wait for Grapperhaus, because he is about to explain exactly what is legal and what has happened in recent times. If then the conclusion is that we should have done more, I will take full responsibility for it. I really think we've been trying, over the past few weeks and months, to do everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u281	I hear the Prime Minister say that he thinks the communication of this cabinet is "top amateur communication."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u282	No, I didn't say that, but never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u283	You just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u284	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u285	You just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u286	Well, it's still there, so he can explain exactly what he meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u287	Let me get this straight. I said: we as politicians are all, unless you're a communications graduate, I'm not, I'm a historian. I'm just professionally top amateurs in communication. 'Cause you're in my book. That's my definition. Anyway, at least we all have the school of life and in the exercise of our profession we are of course all top amateurs in communication. We are supported by very high-level professionals that I incredibly appreciate, both in the behavioral unit of the RIVM as well as in the club that supports Hugo de Jonge, myself, Ferd Graperhaus and Tamara van Ark. They're top professionals. Now there's a challenge, a challenge. The Chamber has asked what more you can do, along two lines, namely to outline the perspective and to bring the code of conduct to the attention again and again. I am not complete; more has been said, but I will summarize it briefly. I'll take that challenge. But that doesn't mean I'm saying the cabinet is based on top amateurs. No, we're top amateurs, all of us. It's a lay democracy in the Netherlands. But we are supported by very, very high-quality, good professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u288	Well, then I would have understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u289	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u290	It is a fact that the Chamber has been calling for better communication since March. It was a very messy business with all measures and all kinds of exceptions. In fact, from March onwards, it was asked by the media, but also by people on the streets, what exactly are the measures, when they apply, what the exceptions are. They say: we do not understand. The Prime Minister and the Cabinet would always learn from this. It's been shown all along that that went to hell all the time. Then I think, "How is it possible?" I myself, just before the lockdown, asked the Prime Minister why a team of experts was not deployed to communicate very clearly about the measures and how important the basic measures were, so that we should not come to this kind of draconian measures. I ask the Prime Minister if he should replace the experts who advise him, because that is not how it works. No, seriously, the Prime Minister can laugh, but it's not funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u291	That's bullshit, of course. It's bullshit. It's not like if you communicate perfectly, 100% of the people are going to stick to all the measures. That's not how it works, is it? We have a top team of experts from the beginning. There are people from the RIVM who are about what the behavioral effects of measures are and how to talk about them. There are people who communicate directly with us in the club who advises us about all the communications we make to the outside world. The press conferences are just a small piece of it. They may be very visible, but they're just a very small piece. In addition, so much more is being done on public communication. But that will never lead to 100% sticking to all the rules. Really, I have to take that illusion away. We are constantly looking at what we can do about it. So it's a continuous process. And I even won the prize of the radio program The Language State of my youth hero Frits Spits last Christmas, with the last speech of the Tower, so we're not doing so bad. But that was a jury... an expert jury, Hugo, of people who said that. But the challenge laid down here by Klaver and Heerma is again: what more can you do both to offer perspective and to convey the need to abide by the basic rules? But it's really an illusion that you're going to 100% compliance. That's really out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u292	The Prime Minister thinks himself extremely funny and is very pleased with his price, but of course that is not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u293	That's okay, isn't it? A little?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u294	I really don't think it's a funny situation. Not for the people in the country, not for the people who are sick and not for the people who will soon be home in curfew because of that draconian measure. This is a very heavy drug, a curfew. I find it really shocking that the Prime Minister himself finds this so funny. I'm not asking for full compliance and that everyone understands. No, that's not possible either. From the start of the crisis, we have failed. Earlier in the past few months, the cabinet has supported this: we have failed to communicate, that needs to be better. So I find it very shocking that the Prime Minister is now returning to that point. It has to be better, because it is a fact that people no longer adhere to the basic measures. It is not just the young people who are no longer able to do it, and it is not just the young people who are now saying: we are going to riot. It is precisely the people who are following all the measures as closely as possible, who work at home with children who cannot go to school and all the tensions that arise at home. Those people, who are already complying with the measures, are now coming in a curfew. I really do not understand why the cabinet does not hire better experts to land the basic measures and then take measures that could have been taken in addition, such as an overall...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u295	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u296	This is based on a kind of creatability that really doesn't exist. So, yeah, what you're saying, what you're saying, and how you're passing things on, is incredibly important. Whether we do that or it happens in this debate, what you do with public communication is crucial. That's what you need to constantly improve and improve and improve. I agree. But the link that is now being made, that because that would not go well enough now that curfew has to be introduced, is really nonsense. That's just not true. That's a link that's not there. The challenge that is laid down, what you can do even further to improve things, we are constantly working on it. I think I'm allowed to pledge to the Chamber to come back to that. If Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and I went to a company and had to report on that company together, there would always be three things in that report: in this company there is a problem with leadership, in this company there is a problem with perspective and in this company there is a problem with communication. Those are the three things we're going to write in the report about every company and government organization, because on all three points it can always be better: on leadership, on perspective and on communication. I agree. That's why we're constantly working on it. Every time we sit down with our experts at the table: what can we improve? That's a continuous process. It is not that we suddenly wake up, because that is now suggested by Heerma and Klaver: oh, hey, the communication. What I do think is important, if they say so here, is that it is also a challenge for me and Hugo de Jonge to write it down very precisely once again and to weigh everything up again, so that we can also have that conversation in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u297	Okay. Well, I'm happy about that. I also hope that the Prime Minister will really take it to heart and pull those experts harder to improve it. Mr. Chairman. I have another question. Why is there no commitment to the measures that could have been taken and which are also advised by the OMT, such as for all travellers a mandatory negative test and therefore a mandatory quarantine? So that's the same thing about the car. That's what the OMT advised. Or does that come with Hugo de Jonge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u298	Yes. I haven't prepared that now. Hugo de Jonge and Cora van Nieuwenhuizen come back to this. Absolutely. We'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u299	Finally, Mrs Van Esch, and then we move on, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm kind of glad, even though it feels late, that we're finally gonna see how you can shut down companies. I just understood that in the meat sector and in the abattoirs there will also be a look at how to close. That has been a point of ours for a very long time. It's a good thing that happens. Still, I'm curious. We see that one specific employer, who is a slaughterer in the Netherlands, is asking people to come and work even more at the moment. More, in a high-risk sector. People work in an environment where the risk of a corona virus is high, because they work in refrigerated spaces where they cannot keep sufficient distance. So you think: that is absolutely impossible. I'm going to ask my question, Prime Minister, because I understand you're eager to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u301	I don't know that case. So I'd like to ask Grapperhaus if he can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u302	Yeah, but I'm gonna make this point right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u303	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u304	Of course, it is too crazy for words to say that we, as a government, are going to send a letter asking the inspection service to do any extra work because they are determined to slaughter more. Of course, it is really out of the question that the NVWA, as a public authority, is going to send a letter to the inspection service to do so. I really want a reaction from the government to this, because of course it cannot be that the government itself is going to ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u305	Okay, I don't know that case, but what I'd like to promise is... I have already told you that Grapperhaus and Koolmees, the ministers of JenV and of Social Affairs and Employment, also consult with experts on what to do in cluster outbreaks, also in order for this to lead to the closure of companies. They also involve the abattoirs. That then leads to a letter to the Chamber. That letter also takes this case back, because I just don't have this ready here. With civil servants who are actually sitting here now, it is not possible to find out again. So let's take that in that letter. The point is clear. Officials have written along, and we're gonna take this with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u306	Of course, I get that. I would like to add that I think it is very important to include the ministry of LNV, because such a letter comes from the NVWA and that is what the Ministry of LNV is doing. So they're just gonna help the abattoirs slaughter more. If that is the case from the government, they must also be urged that we are now in a corona crisis and that, of course, this is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u307	Yeah, we'll get that involved. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions about education and then a few loose questions. On education and schools, I will not repeat everything that is already in the letters, but we really want to open up primary education as soon as possible. Then Hugo de Jonge always says: "That's called 'basic education' nowadays."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u308	Since 1985.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u309	Since 1985, but I'm still talking about lower school. Without jokes and just as serious: we want primary education to be open as soon as possible. In doing so, we are really only looking at the risks of the British virus and the risks of spreading to children. The first results look good, but we are working on that further investigation. That was also what Arie Slob, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education, brought out in the Catshuis garden last Sunday. In the same context, partners are working with a view to identifying the backlogs. Of course, they're huge. That is something that will also concern us in the longer term, depending on how long it will take, but there are those delays. There is, of course, an enormous importance and great motivation to deal with these delays, with the realization that this will take several years. In the short term, transitions are a priority. This is about the best possible support for the 8th grade and the final exam students, but science and the whole education sector are now also mapping out where there are further delays and what is needed to tackle them. Schools have already received extra money that is now being used to tackle these delays, but we are also working on a plan to tackle them in a structural way. That's gonna cost you. So we are going to release that money; money must not play a role here. This includes extra course time for students and support for teachers, but also additional support in further education, extra support for bridge-class students and also important first-year students in higher education. Of course, I also mention digital support and cooperation with the municipalities. The education aldermen have come forward to work on this. The intention of Arie Slob is now to discuss this approach with all organisations on Monday, with schools, with municipalities and also with the G4 and also with the Equal Opportunities Alliance, which is actively involved in the process and to take steps as soon as possible, both in the short and in the long term. The approach is indeed that the primary schools can be opened as safely as possible. Once again, I have already said that with the latest insights we hope that we will succeed. Then there was the point of Van der Staaij that schools for special education do not always use customization enough. Special education is now open to the three main target groups: exam students, students taking practical courses and vulnerable children in a vulnerable position. That already affects a very large part of special education. This actually means that every school for special education is now open and provides physical education, both in primary and secondary education. That is not for all students, but for many students. That's really customization. They do it together with the parents and with the municipalities and see which pupils in special education belong to the vulnerable target group and therefore really need to be physically present at school. So we do not think that there is a major problem there that cannot be solved by the customization that is taking place at the moment. Then there is Mr Heerma's question about communication, which I think we have dealt with. Then the question of perspective. That is what I think we have been talking about in relation to the schools. Hugo de Jonge will deal with the social aspect in due course. Our intention is to get the message that this afternoon or tomorrow I will be able to report on the economic aid package and its extension. I hope to see the latest planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u310	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u311	That's my impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u312	Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u313	Let's talk about special education. In the OMT opinion, I noticed precisely that they are calling attention to those vulnerable children and saying that although there is room for tailor-made work, those vulnerable children, especially those in primary school age, are still regularly at home. For secondary schools, exceptions to practical education are more often used. I therefore see in the OMT opinion the warning that there is actually a problem that needs to be addressed. My question is: is there any action now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u314	The answer I get is that there are insights that the problem is manageable because it concerns the categories that are already allowed to go to school and because vulnerability often plays a role in this and therefore children already receive physical education much more often. Mr Van der Staaij actually says: may this be the case for secondary special education, but does this also apply to special primary education? Let me say otherwise that I ask Mr Slob to report the latest state of affairs to the Chamber. I just don't have that ready right now. The information I get is that it is easy to solve with customization with parents and municipalities. Perhaps it would be a good idea if I asked Mr Slob to get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u315	That is good, and I would particularly like a concrete response to the fact that the OMT literally advises that all schools open for special education, at least for children in primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u316	I understand that all these schools are actually already physically open, so I'm being reported, but let me double-check it. Then that comes as soon as possible in a note from Slob to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u317	Thank you. I suggest we suspend for a while. Then we can have the speaker chair cleaned for the switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u318	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u319	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer the legal-technical issues surrounding the curfew. This includes enforcement. I would also like to touch on a few points that have just been raised, such as Mrs Marijnissen's point. If there is anything I forget in this respect, of course I can see that. Then I'm willing to do the same. Let's get right on it. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the legal arrangement of curfew. For the sake of clarity, this is indeed not covered by the Temporary Measures Covid-19 Act, this is the Extraordinary Powers Civil Authority Act, Article 8 (1) in conjunction with Article 8 (3) thereof. In Article 1 a curfew is made possible separately, and that has nothing to do with a state of emergency or that sort of thing; that is other legislation, the Coordination Act exception situations. That's a point of order. Normally, your room... well, normally, I don't know when this has happened before in my life. But the Prime Minister and the King could make a royal decision and then I'll sign the ministerial settlement and then I'll come to your Chamber with just a proposal to extend the law. So then that arrangement has already entered into. As I indicated myself at the end of October, we in the Cabinet do not believe that we should use this power without discussing the intention with your Chamber first. So how we are going to do it is that we are discussing the intention with your Chamber today, along with a number of other measures and so on, and that we are, of course, looking at the outcome of this debate, with the intention of taking those decisions afterwards. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to you very quickly with what we call the Extension Act. I'm just looking at Mrs Ploumen, who's not here right now. But that means that we will be in your Chamber sometime next week about this under the Extension Act. Only the word "prolongation law" is confusing; that is really only about what we have now discussed with each other. So that's the technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u320	Just on the last point? Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u321	Is the Minister talking about introducing a curfew or something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u322	This is the curfew, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u323	But does that mean, in material or political terms, that, should the Chamber adopt a motion that says "office, do not do so," despite what you just said, you will not introduce curfew?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u324	Of course, any parliamentary debate will be subject to motions and the cabinet will take them very much into account when they are adopted. We are also really taking what is said in this debate. There have been a number of points, questions from Mr Heerma, for example, but also from others, which I shall come back to, on which the answers may or may not give rise to a motion. We will, of course, assess these motions on their merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u325	That wasn't my question. I heard the Prime Minister say recently: we do not introduce him without the Chamber. Let me just say it in my own words. So again the sharp question, because the Minister for Justice and Security is now starting his story about the procedural situation: 'we should not, but we do'. My question, very specific. Should the Chamber today adopt a motion that says 'office, we ask you not to introduce curfew', will that motion be carried out and the curfew will not be introduced, or will you say 'we shall only see it again'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u326	I think if the majority of this Chamber says "we don't want curfew," I'm not going to sign that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u327	I hope that Mr Jetten has listened carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u328	I had a question about the general measure of governance mentioned in Article 8 (2) of that law. It did not come back in the government's letter, but I still understand the system of this very special Act extraordinary powers so that there should also be an AMvB with detailed rules on the exercise of that power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u329	Article 8 (3) of the Treaty is not applicable in the event of an urgent situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u330	I understand, however, from the explanatory notes on those documents, that Article 8 (3) allows for derogations from those rules referred to in paragraph 2, but that they must be there. In my opinion, the systematic approach is that the general measure of governance should lay down more detailed rules, but that you can deviate from them in particular cases. Now it seems as if the cabinet explains it so that the AMvB doesn't have to come at all and you can go straight to a ministerial arrangement. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u331	That's what I started, isn't it? Article 8 (1) in conjunction with paragraph 3. In any case, I must come to you as soon as possible, within the shortest possible time limit, on behalf of the Cabinet, with that extension law. That really is a period of a few days; let that be said very clearly. The regulation will be amended on a number of points in the light of what appears in this debate in the Chamber. That is why we have said that we really want to discuss it with the Chamber in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u332	Finally. Perhaps, if there were a majority in the Chamber, this could be dealt with in the extension law. I read Article 8 in such a way that there must at least be a general measure of governance and therefore also an opinion of the Council of State on it, and that in particular cases there can be derogations from it. Now it seems like the government is saying, no, we can totally skip that step. This means that there is no advice whatsoever on the use of this power, other than the consultation of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u333	It will, at least in the context of the Extension Act, be discussed with the Council of State as a matter of urgency. But, as I said, this is a special case. You'll be in Article 8 (3).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u334	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u335	Mr. Chairman. That's just as well as explaining it. I would like to say to Mr Van der Staaij that this is an AMvB from 1953, which is of course no longer applicable in terms of topicality. This is true for an indefinite period of time, but I do not call on it, because I would really do something to your Chamber which I would say does not seem to fit in with the full 100% of our democracy. Mr President, so much for the legal point. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to exceptions, on which all kinds of questions have been asked. I would like to outline to you the systematic and the choices we have made. If you're gonna do this, you're gonna have to do it right and hard. That's not to show muscle or anything, but that has to do with the proportionality test. On a number of points, the 8% to 13% have already been discussed. When I was a kid, I learned that that's a sip on a drink. So it really matters. As a cabinet, we are also committed to this, but then you must also put your system together in such a way that it is not so close to exceptions that you say: now it is hardly a measure that is going to contribute. So we have set up a system whereby you can go outside after the time of entry if you have a valid reason according to the exception categories. That list was deliberately kept short to make the system as simple as possible. It is also desirable for enforcement to work with as few exceptions as possible. So you have those forms; I don't know if I need to explain that in detail. The starting point for this measure is and remains, as with other measures, that we assume that we will all do our best to comply with this measure. So you're assuming that people are just sticking to that measure. This also means that, taking into account what your Chamber said about this last year in the debates, the fine for not having a valid reason if one is outside is set at an amount below €100. It is a specific corona-related crime and the Chamber has said that we should stay below the €100 limit. If you falsely fill out a form or something like that, it's also just the crime of "falseness in writing," article 225 of the Criminal Code. That's also been tested at the D.A.'s office. We are, of course, in a crisis from which we must arm ourselves. That is why we need to put these measures in place in this way. There are a number of valid reasons to go out on the street. I'm gonna go through them real fast. Then I can respond immediately to a few things that have been asked about that. First of all, that's the job. Mr Heerma asked about exams for higher education. The reason why this was taken out of the letter is because we were not able to include it in the proportionality test yesterday. We have been able to do this by now and I would like to say here that I will supplement 'work' with 'or at this time of curfew planned exams for education'. From the educational angle we understood that there are problems there. Some exams run just too long to give people time to go home. This means that a person taking such an examination, for example in higher education, must draw up his own statement and have a statement from the educational authority that he has done the accounting exam or something like that and is therefore necessarily outside after 8.30 p.m., because the exam ended at 8 p.m. or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u336	Mr Jetten and then Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u337	I welcome this commitment, because in education they have spread these exams around the day in order to be able to do it safely and to avoid unnecessary delays for students. To sum it up in ordinary human language: if you have an exam in the evening as a student and you cannot be home before the start of the curfew, then you can make that journey home from your exam with a stamp from your educational institution and you will not be fined if you are outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u338	The declaration is now called 'Employers' Declaration', but we will adapt the scheme in such a way as to include an educational certificate. You must have a statement of your own and also a statement from the educational institution. These are fixed forms, which are available on national government.nl, at city halls and the like. This will allow a student who had an exam until 8 p.m., if he is still on the train at 9 p.m. back to Groningen or I do not know where, to make that clear. For this category, as for all other categories, we have the confidence that they will comply fully with the measures and are therefore not outside for other reasons after the curfew has begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u339	I also think it is very good that this has been corrected and restored, because there have been many concerns and concerns about it. How and how quickly will this be communicated? Yesterday it was first in the letter and then withdrawn. There has been a great deal of unrest about this. I think it is important for the Ministry of Education to communicate as soon as possible, preferably standing this debate, that this does go along with it. Perhaps all kinds of institutions are now trying to cancel things on the basis of yesterday's messages, but that doesn't have to be because they might already know that it can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u340	Mr President, through you, I say to Mr Heerma that it is indeed entirely due to the point of view of the matter, and you may put it to me that we were not able to take it with us yesterday. It came up at a later point. Fortunately, we have now been able to take it with us. Last night, officials from two ministries were busy working on it. In any case, I say loud and clear for everyone: if you have an examination in higher or secondary education scheduled during the curfew period, and if that examination or travel time falls wholly or partly within the curfew period, you have an exemption with your own statement and a statement from the educational institution to be outside. This will also be included in the regulation which is being updated following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u341	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u342	Then I come to the category of medical aid to myself or an animal or assistance to a person in need. Then I'll take a look at Mrs. Dik-Faber. This means that not the pgb-holder himself, but the caregiver or the caregiver, with his own declaration, is exempt from it. It also means that spiritual caregivers are exempt, with a separate explanation for those societies in which they are called as self-employed and with an employer's declaration for those churches where there is an employer's association. I already discussed that with the churches yesterday. Let me answer a question that also came up. If you are a self-employed person, you will of course fill in two statements: the self-declaration and the zzp-work statement. I'm going through it real fast. Then the necessary trip abroad or the Caribbean part of the Netherlands, a funeral, an appeal from a judge or prosecutor or for an appeal and appeal hearing. Finally, a question was asked about the invitation as a guest to a live evening program. Yesterday I had a good conversation with the Dutch Society of Editors and the NVJ. I understand the importance of live news gathering, but I have urged them to work with digital presence of guests wherever possible. Our Prime Minister has already set a very good example of this last week. That looked excellent. Mr. Chairman. A self-declaration is not mandatory for agents, firemen, ambulance workers and people responsible for all kinds of passenger transport. By the way, let me make it clear that the use of passenger transport after the curfew is allowed only for those in one of the exceptions. Your taxi driver can therefore count on an exception, but if you do not belong to one of the categories mentioned as a Dutchman, you cannot say as a passenger: I am on the car or the train with someone who has that exemption. A statement is also not mandatory for international freight transport, for the "yes," there comes the leash of a dog and for travelers travelling abroad to the Netherlands. They may show that they come from abroad and that it is necessary to be on the road at that time. This also applies to homeless people who cannot be put into social care and in cases of disaster. Think of a house where a fire broke out or someone who was stranded by his car along the motorway, to mention two examples. So far. I think I have dealt with all the points of the exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u343	Thank you for the Minister's explanation. I can't wait to see what enforcement looks like in practice. Let's say I've just provided care, I'm on the street, and I have a statement in my pocket, but the police are holding me up and doubting if the statement is real and if I'm on the street for right reasons. Then how does the police proceed? Is there gonna be an investigation and the detectives are gonna do something about it? In other words, will enforcement and follow-up really get hands and feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u344	Yes, it is true that the enforcement and follow-up of this are given hands and feet, as Mr Jetten calls it. The police can, of course, determine whether or not someone has a statement of their own, and in particular an employer's statement. As a person who doesn't have, it's obvious: then the fact that that person breaks the curfew rule for no valid reason will be reduced. If that person does have the statement, the police may decide on the spot to carry out a further check, or to record all the information, perhaps even to record it and check everything at a later date. However, I would like to say that all the measures we have had so far are in the police's best interest. I would also like to give an example of the negative PCR test that has been introduced for a few weeks, including in trains entering our country. The experiences with this are good in themselves. There is good compliance and control appears to be quite possible. It is true that issues can arise if someone claims that something is true when the police say: we want to investigate this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u345	First of all, of course, there is a great deal of respect for all the agents and boas who have had to enforce the corona measures for a year. Specifically on the question of suspicion of falsehood in writing, about which the Minister has just mentioned: there are rather severe penalties in the Netherlands. The maximum fine if you have committed falsehood in writing is €85,000. Is it really the case that the police and the detectives are going to put time and energy into doing that? In other words, are you gonna get the police at your door if you're suspected of going out on curfew with a false statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u346	Of course, I had this examined in advance at the D.A.'s office. This is particularly true of the situation. We have to start by assuming that we're going to respect this with each other. I get a lot of questions about enforcement. I'll get to that in a minute. But it starts with compliance. You can't put a police officer or a boa on every one and a half square feet. That's what it starts with. Next, the principle of opportunity determines whether the prosecution will take place in certain cases. I think someone who is spotted outside one minute after the curfew time and says: "I was almost there, but my bicycle tire was leaking," or I know much what, the opportunity principle is applied differently than someone who has sold forms with a false employer's statement. But that's in a rule of law like ours, of course, to the state's attorney's office. Well, I'm just gonna come to the point of enforcement. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I may have anticipated a lot of questions about that. In the last few weeks, I've talked a lot to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u347	I see Mr Van der Staaij standing by, probably for the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u348	We are now going into detail on the technique. I get that. I still have a question that comes up to me about the criminal threat in the law itself. It says: If you don't follow the rules, you can be put in jail for six months, or get a fine of €8,700. Fortunately, you can say that the directive is to impose no more than €95, but does it not indicate that we are dealing with very far-reaching legislation? How do you feel as Minister of Justice not to fall back on a law that is there for dealing with public health, but on an emergency law that deals with very major public order and security issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u349	Well, we have a big security problem. Otherwise, I wouldn't be standing here. You know that at the end of October, at the beginning of November, we wrestled this whole thing. At that time, I found very clear, and I am pleased with the cabinet, that proportionality was not yet present for a measure such as this. I refer to what the Prime Minister has exchanged with you in the debate and to what Mr Van Dissel has said about the need for it now. As far as the cabinet is concerned, we are in a serious situation. Again, that means that if we find that someone, taken sec, is outside for no valid reason, they will get a fine that is below €100. That's been tested by the D.A.'s office that's primarily about it. I can appreciate a joke that there are now Home delivery suits for sale at Marketplace. I understand that people who are joking. But if people are going to cheat and take advantage of it, just to be outside, there are higher penalties. That's just fraud and forgery in writing. If you're going to fake your registration forms for something, it's also fake writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u350	I want to get to the point I made anyway. We have discussed here the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and all adjustments. We have the Public Health Act, which is really about tackling infectious diseases. We have had wide-ranging debates on this subject, and we have been alerted and weighed up. So there is a whole set of instruments for the cabinet. Now that law is being abandoned and we are going to an old emergency law, which is primarily not about dealing with infectious diseases. Do you, as Minister of Justice, have any difficulty in getting back to an emergency law with very serious criminal threats, with a very different nature, which is not at all intended for this kind of situation, in dealing with infectious diseases, for which we have a separate law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u351	First of all, this is not an emergency law. This is a law which regulates a very special competence, because there is reason to restrict freedom of movement on the basis of either public policy or security. That law has a guarantee by requiring an immediate extension law to be submitted to your Chamber. As a cabinet, we have said that we want to discuss it with your Chamber in advance, because we are working together to see how we can deal with this crisis. The serious need for this indicates the Outbreak Management Team and that is what we stand for as a cabinet. We are not going to hide behind this, but we endorse what is stated in the opinion. Next, I would like to make it quite clear that if someone breaks that corona rule for a sec, there is a fine that some people in the country find far too low. But we have exchanged views on this with your Chamber; it is a corona-specific fine. However, I would like to make it quite clear here that if people take advantage of this situation, they are going to commit fraud and forgery, criminal offences and more severe penalties. It's true in life. You don't even need a situation like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u352	Finally. The Minister says all kinds of things which are correct in themselves, but which were not so much related to my question. Finally, I have a very simple, factual question. Isn't it true that, if I read Article 30 correctly, it doesn't comply with curfew a fine of up to €8,700 or a six-month detention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u353	You mean the Wbbbg, that's what I hear. We have, as has been said, talked to your Chamber about the sec in breach of the curfew rule. I have now said twice what the view is on this matter. That is why I warn the people who think about the €95 fine, which I still think is high: well, I'll get over it. Then I say, remember, don't fake forms or stuff like that, because then you're in a completely different category of criminal law. Mr. Chairman. I have already said a few things about enforcement. However, I would like to say this to Mr Jetten and others. Some mayors were quoted as well. In the last two weeks, on two nights at the Security Council, I have received the advice of the members of that committee. The following has come out quite clearly last Tuesday. Of course there are also mayors who have great difficulty with it, but we have concluded with each other: when that curfew arrives, we will do it all together. I spoke to the chief of police and the unions. Now I don't know if it's been Tuesday or Wednesday for every day. But at least they have clearly stated that enforcement is possible here. Then, of course, I have spoken with my colleague from Defense Ank Bijleveld. They are prepared to assist the police with the KMar. I appreciate that. In addition, a number of municipalities, in consultation with the Ministry, will also look at the use of boas, where this can be done in a good and meaningful way, so I would like to emphasise very clearly. So much for enforcement. I'll see what else to say. As far as compliance is concerned, I think the Prime Minister has already said what is necessary. It is good to point out that RIVM's latest monitor behavioral research, which can also be found on the RIVM website, indicates that nine out of ten codes of conduct still have an 80% support base among the population. As far as working at home is concerned, I will be sitting with Koolmees tomorrow to discuss this, among other things, but I also discussed this with the VNO-NCW board yesterday: 80% of the people who can work at home do so. That is also on the line of compliance with almost all other measures. How is it that we see that we are in traffic and say: how is it that all these other people are in traffic? Of course, that's a question you can ask yourself. But then I'd like to take it up a little bit for the working people and the companies. They really work at home. I would just like to say the following about compliance. What comes further to this is that people still find it relatively difficult to comply with the maximum visit rules. That is one of the underlying arguments which also arise in order to limit that visit by means of that curfew. Of this, Mr Van Dissel says the following. I did check his quotes from yesterday anyway. The time between 20.00 and 21.00 was not so arbitrary. Mr Van Dissel says: the sooner you do it, the more impact it has. Then he also points to France's choice of 18.00 hours, and he says: apart from the fact that it has more impact, because it prevents more visitors, you also have to choose a time when many people are able to say: now I really stay home. And the later the night you do it, the more you're still gonna get that traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u354	Yes. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u355	In recent days, of course, we have also been able to read the reactions of the boas and the association of extraordinary investigators. They say they can't handle it. I was wondering if the minister had had any contact with the people responsible for enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u356	Yeah, I've had extensive contact with that, both with the corps leadership and with the unions, as I said. I have also spoken with the mayors in detail, or rather: I have not spoken with them myself, but with my administration. He also spoke to the state's attorney's office. I'll talk to the boa unions. The reason that has not yet happened is that we initially felt that this should primarily be police enforcement. But mayor Aboutaleb honors who deserves credit: that's someone who often comes up with creative thoughts: I still think it should be possible to use boas in such a way that they may not be directly in the front line with enforcement, but can take on other things and so on. I have a good relationship with the boa unions and in that connection I am going to talk to them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u357	So that question is still on the table. The primary responsibility then lies with the police organisation. I can't help but imagine policemen walking down the street and people taking a stroll are gonna bang and bang. But the boas also get a role in that. So how exactly is that going to work? What then, if it is up to this minister, is the division of tasks between the extraordinary investigators and the police officers? Can he shed some light on this for all those people who are now worried about how enforcement will take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u358	That is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the local triangle. We also established this very well at the Security Council on Monday. My experience is very clear that mayors and the triangle are very well able to determine exactly how they are deployed. In recent weeks, I have complimented many mayors of Amsterdam, but also those of Velsen and Hilversum, on the way in which they have dealt with demonstrations that threatened to get out of hand or were not even reported in advance and what is more. We have organized it in the Netherlands in such a way that the local triangle has to determine the priorities and that is what we see. Above all, we must ensure that the resources and opportunities are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u359	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u360	I think it's really crazy. We're gonna end up in a total crazy world. People are at home, and if they are allowed to go outside, then those people are locked up by Rutte and they are allowed to go outside anyway, then they all have to take statements, such as self-employed declarations and statements from their employer. And then these people go outside, and then the police come, because the boas don't want it, and then the police say, "Can I have your statement and isn't that a fake statement?" And then they're gonna check to make sure it's not a fake. And if it isn't forged, then they have to check whether it is indeed a caregiver or someone who has to do something with an MBO exam... Cut the crazy shit! The police have to catch crooks! That's why they were created: to catch bad guys! But what will the police do now? They need to check people on the street to see if they have the right statements and if they haven't been forged and if people are going where they're saying they're going. It's a Kafkaian world you're sitting here creating. Stop it! Just release the people!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u361	I've read Kafka, he's done the same, because we share a lot of lovers in literature, and I really don't recognize that at the moment. What's different is that we're having a health crisis. Maybe you could call that some kind of Josef K. Mr Jetten complimented the police and the boas. I was a little bedridden with that, because I should have made that compliment first. They've been doing this for a year. They've been maintaining them for a year in a good way. My Belgian colleague Annelies Verlinden, whom I spoke again yesterday morning in the context of our regular consultation, pointed out that she had discovered that Dutch people could also be relaxed in maintaining, just as the Belgians do. That's what our police and our boas do in a good and determined way. We need them in the near future in order to combat the health crisis. As for those crooks, I've got the Corona Crime Change Monitor every week. It's an ugly linguistic setup, but that's what it's called. This shows, for example, that home invasions have been taken away. In the first few months, pickpocketing had gone to about 10%. We can all imagine why. There are a lot more things in it, for example about road accidents. You can see that there are still bad guys. There is still a lot of crime that expands, such as cybercrime, which has really become a business model for a lot of criminals. But we've really gotten along really well whether we can maintain it in a good way. We have come to the conclusion that this can be done. We're gonna have to pick it up, because this virus is just life-threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u362	A curfew hardly helps against the virus; the Prime Minister and I had already established that with each other. You shouldn't do it. In the end, the police in the Netherlands are loyal. We have a very loyal police force that we can be proud of, but of course she'd rather not. Most people in the Netherlands prefer not to be locked up. The police don't want people who haven't done anything and go outside to check if they have the right form on them, or if it's not fake, whether they're going to their exams or what. That's not the job of the police. You're gonna saddle the police with something. Of course they will. If it's the rules, they'll follow them, but they weren't created to check with a 52-year-old who didn't do anything to make sure he had the right form on him and if that wasn't forged. Will you stop that? Just let the cops catch the bad guys. Release the people. You're turning this country into a crazy world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u363	When I was 16, I went out with my moped for the first time and I was stopped; I must not have looked reliable. Then I had to show my moped insurance card. That was with a moped plate back then. I see people here in the room who think: what is this about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u364	That's right. I'm curious about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u365	I'd be happy to have a powerpoint presentation here for once. But seriously, I had to show you a form at the time. I know my policemen. They're really gonna do this in a good way. One more thing: it is not that curfew only contributes a little. I find 8% to 13% really a sip on a drink. We can take the test with a glass. It is true that you have that bandwidth from 8:00 to 9:00. The Prime Minister has already said something about this. I think we need to be real and we need to stay within that bandwidth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u366	Let me turn to the fine words and the very justified appreciation for our policemen, who have been on the frontline of this whole crisis. I understand there's been a conflict over the collective agreement. The police say we just want a decent raise. Wouldn't it please the Minister at this time, when we are asking so many of our policemen, there is now something to be done about a decent collective agreement, so that these people get what they are entitled to, namely a fair salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u367	There is no real conflict in the collective agreement. We're talking. Those conversations sometimes get a little emotional. We still have those conversations going on. In September 2018, I was able to conclude my first collective agreement thanks to the tremendously good work of the officials at my home, the unions and the corps leadership. I'm not gonna hold their honor to myself here. At the time, I saw a good but firm process, and you can also say that it was a solid but good process. Mrs Marijnissen rightly urges me to do everything I can to ensure that this process ends in the best possible way for police officers. You have also seen that we said last autumn: we think that a valuation amount from our own resources should at least go to the police. That's not all, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u368	A bonus is quite right, but that is of course a one-time thing. I understand that the Minister has told the police that they can get a little more than 1% increase. I think 2.5% is requested. That seems to me to be a very modest wage increase which is very justified, in any case, because the police have been under-humanized and over-demanded for a long time. The workload is high, but certainly also because these people are in the front line in this corona crisis. And then the cabinet comes with just over 1%. Then you can only see that they are a lot of fine words and a token of appreciation. But I would nevertheless like to call on the Minister to say that he wants to do his best to try a little more and come up with something more than that just over 1% that is on the table right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u369	All I can say is I'm taking the incentive with me. Mr Klaver began to get off the ground, Mr President, but I do not know if he wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u370	But it's always on starting blocks. Would you like to ask me something, Mr. Clover? It's okay now. After that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u371	A restless soul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u372	Maybe the minister's gonna come up, so that's what I was actually waiting for. I just wanted to stand down for a moment, but I wanted to ask why there are currently no legal possibilities for the cabinet to close offices if that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u373	I'll get to that in a minute. I just need to answer two more questions that were on my regular list. First of all, Mr Krol had a question about Germany. The German Government has said that if neighbouring Member States do not move in the same direction in the fight against virus, Germany may impose additional entry restrictions. But that is what we have done in the Netherlands, of course, with the double test obligation, the flight bans and other matters. Germany closed the border in the spring, but not the border with the Netherlands. I myself have looked into it as well as possible as a result of Mr Krol's interruption. The Chancellor also said that the EU is an epidemiologically single region. In this context, I sent a letter last week to the European Commission and to my colleagues in the field of Justice and Security, which in many countries are two different ministers. It is about the point that I would very much like to discuss very quickly how, if we are a single epidemiological region, we deal very well with cross-border traffic and other matters. I hope we can get into that. Then I also gave a little answer to the question about closing borders with neighbouring countries. We must continue to realise that, for example, the total closing of borders on car traffic can have enormous economic consequences for freight traffic and can cause enormous delays. We've all been able to see how it's working out catastrophically around the Brexit. Mr President, I have had just about everything. Then I come to the question of the closed place and the question of whether it can be closed in the event of a source contamination. It is true that the Twm does not provide a basis for this. This was the case in the course of the process of preparing the law, following comments during the consultation phase. The Rotterdam Court also pointed that out yesterday in a judgment. There is no political background behind that in that regard.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, we can respond to certain situations in which the rules are not being complied with. The Public Health Act contains a provision on the closure of buildings in case of contagion of the building...................................................................................................................................................................................... The court ruling is yesterday's. I think we should see if we can respond to a source contamination, if there is a possibility for a change in law in the short term. Your Chamber and the First Chamber were very interested in me, and the Cabinet in my wake, in the first week of January, because we then created a very important piece of legislation together. In any case, I would like to express the willingness that if your Chamber tabled a motion on this matter, I do not know whether I would be giving that very judgment to Chamber at this stage. I believe that such a motion would support a motion to amend the law on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u374	Well, Mr. Clover!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u375	That's good news. This means that there will be an effective way to deal with companies that do not comply with the rules. In the second term, we will table a motion to that effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u376	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u377	In any case, I would like to make first-term assessments on several motions that have not yet been tabled. Yesterday's letter does mention that there are opportunities to shut down work, in my view, if employers behave irresponsiblely. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u378	Here's the thing. Yesterday's letter was written from the perspective that we assumed that Article 58 and the Twm would allow us to do so because of the cessation of activities. The judge says two things now. First of all, I would like to translate it briefly, so I apologize to the judge if I do not make it quite clear that "activities" are not sufficiently covering for what we are doing. He also says that in the consultation against that piece of building closure is advised. We said at the time: we should not do that and then we should throw it on the activities. We just have to... I hope... I don't have to anticipate too much motions, of course, but I think it would deserve an emergency legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u379	Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this might help in the problem of slaughterhouses that we have mentioned a number of times, but I am curious to see to what extent this possible change can also reflect what we have seen when we have tried to close slaughterhouses recently and how it has been thought differently from safety regions, for example. One of the safety regions, for example, said that we are not closing this slaughterhouse, because economic interests weigh more heavily. I am still curious what we will do with these kinds of considerations, if hopefully we adopt a possible motion. Then what do we do with this kind of potential economic interest that could play? I'm just curious how we're gonna do it in practice. It would be good, but how?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u381	I have to be careful not to mow through you the lawn for Mr Klaver's motion. What's to be done? That old one was under the emergency regulations. As a result, this could have been wrong in regions. We have seen together in the discussion of Article 58p, that amendment, that you have to record very well in your law and in your explanatory statement, your parliamentary history: listen, this is the norm. The norm is: if there's a cluster, maybe a cluster of so-and-so many, but I'll leave that to the scholars. Then it's with the mayors. The good thing about that, nothing to the detriment of the security regions, is that the mayor is always very close.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u382	Thank you. I have one more practical question I'd better ask now. You indicated through the Prime Minister that you would come forward with a letter in response to this. I'm just curious when we can expect that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u383	That letter, which may then also have additional paragraphs, says that a certain motion is to be adopted, may be there very soon next week as far as I am concerned. Let me put it this way that I can already make half the commitment that is the other half of Koolmeen's letter that that letter will be there by Tuesday at the latest. That's half a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u384	Okay, thank you. Then we'll just wait a minute. I now give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I can be brief on the subject of flying and travelling, because a number of issues have already been discussed, including by the Prime Minister and by Mr Grapperhaus. Given the time I'll try to answer a little staccato to the questions that remain. A number of members, including the VVD and the CDA, and also Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, have asked why not strict controls on all modes of transport? 'Cause they're actually missing from the car right now. The OMT also advises that the mandatory negative test results in addition to aircraft, ship, train and bus should also apply to car traffic. As a cabinet, we share that ambition, but it is of course also important that you have adequately regulated implementation. So from the cabinet, we're investigating whether and how that's possible. In any case, this will require a change of law. The cabinet will therefore involve this obligation in the proposal to introduce a mandatory quarantine. So that's what we're working on, and we'll get back to you on that. To reassure you: by the way, it is already true that from the UK the car can only reach the mainland, the continent, via the tunnel, and this is already subject to the obligation of a test. They also asked: what are you doing with the Thalys and the Eurostar? Also, there should be a negative PCR test result. That happens at London St Pancras, for example. There, travellers to France, Belgium and the Netherlands are checked for possession of that negative test declaration by both Eurostar itself and the French border police prior to departure. I have also recently been in contact with colleague Shapps from the UK. It also indicated that they themselves are extremely strict in their control. That is what they are doing now on the tests for the ferries and for the truck drivers. They share the resulting data with us. From that side too, from the UK, it is therefore handled very carefully, also because it is, of course, extremely important for them to keep that transport going. International rail transport is also very small; the Eurostar currently only travels from London to Amsterdam once a day. I am talking about all these measures, including how you deal with the car, with my European colleagues. Tonight at 7 p.m. I have another meeting with the German, French, Belgian and Luxembourg colleagues, because of course we have the most relations with the UK. So we're working on that, too. It has also been asked whether it is better to simply ban all unnecessary air travel. A flight ban is of course an incredibly heavy means, because then you can no longer make necessary trips. Then we're talking about really necessary travel. That is why we have dealt with this very carefully. The cabinet continues to make an urgent appeal not to travel abroad, unless strictly necessary. That's an urgent call. It is not yet possible to impose this obligation. We'll come up with a flight ban if necessary. That is what we are doing now for a number of countries because of the serious situation with the virus mutations. I always do that on the recommendation of the RIVM. Then I get the well-known letter from colleague De Jonge and then we can act very quickly. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks why we are only now banning flights. We started that very quickly before Christmas. The RIVM came up with the first signals about that British variant. We immediately took action on that. I remember that well, because it was from Saturday on Sunday night that I could finally press send at 1.50 hours. We were the first country in Europe to do this. I think we have always been able to act adequately. Then why was it lifted after a few days, Mrs Van Esch asked. On 19 December, the Prime Minister of the UK announced that there was this contagious situation. We then imposed the flight ban, because we had no alternative at that time either. We didn't have a test obligation for incoming passengers back then. At that point, a flight ban was the only cure we had. If there are more proportionate methods to stop the virus, it is always preferred. In addition, you should also realise that the UK was still a member of the EU at that time. Since December 23, we have introduced the PCR test obligation for all air passengers. RIVM has also agreed to this. That's how the flight ban could be lifted. Of course we have done so according to the state of knowledge of that moment. Other countries have also taken similar measures. When we took that flight ban as a measure, we were the first to do so. That's when the ball started rolling. Also in the debate here in the Chamber it was said that between that test of up to 72 hours in advance and departure there can be another contamination, which means that you have a gap between that test and the moment of boarding the plane. That is why we have decided to add a second test obligation with a quick test as an extra lock on the door. The OMT is positive about this measure. You can also read that in yesterday's OMT's opinion. In that same opinion, the OMT indicated that the mutations of the virus are so risky after all, and we didn't know that at the time when it first occurred, we needed double testing with mandatory quarantine. Well, we haven't gotten that mandatory quarantine yet, so that's why I thought it was proportional to have a flight ban in the meantime, so for the four weeks that Mr De Jonge thinks he needs to arrange that mandatory quarantine. I think those were the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u386	Then I have Mr Veldman, Mrs Van Esch and Mrs Sazias. First of all, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u387	Thank you to the Minister for the commitment that she will include other modes of transport in that double test, but my question is about something else. I am sure the Minister will have noticed that KLM has indicated that this obligation leads to a bottleneck for them and their staff and that they do not want to leave staff anywhere in the world, and that it can also have consequences for freight flights. If KLM does not carry out freight operations, it may in turn result in the generic medicines, for which we are often dependent on countries such as India and China, not reaching us anymore. Does the Minister share this risk? How does she weigh that? Does it still see solutions to deal with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u388	Of course, KLM doesn't want to leave crew members anywhere. However, I would like to point out that this has of course been going on for a long time for the lorry drivers who have to go on the ferry. If tested positively, they should also be in a quarantine hotel, in that case in the UK. As a cabinet, of course, it's about trying to keep the virus out of the door. If there is an alternative that the RIVM and the OMT say is just as safe, then of course we are open to it. But in view of the developments that Mr Van Dissel also mentioned, with the new Manaus variant and so on from Brazil, we really apply the precautionary principle here and the truck driver and the crew member on a plane for the time being this rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u389	I have a lot of questions, but I'll start with the same questions I asked the Prime Minister about the flight ban at Christmas. Because I still find it extremely special that we are imposing a flight ban because we see that there are risks with that British mutation. So I keep finding it strange, and I think it's all great to hear that we're the first, but that doesn't do me much good. I just want to know if we couldn't have just left that flight ban. Because of that I think: I don't understand, I think that in recent weeks a lot of people have really indicated how it can still be that all those flights from the United Kingdom are coming in. All those times before, when the Animal Party said "according to us we must go to a flight ban," the reaction was "no, that is not proportional." Now I really want to know if we shouldn't have done this much earlier and so much longer. Would that have made a difference in the situation we're in right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u390	Let me repeat, of course, that we did not know anything about this new variant in December, and that we do not think ourselves at the Ministry of IenW when we are imposing a flight ban or any measure. You will of course look at the advice of the experts, of the OMT and RIVM. Every time we get an indication of this, we can act very quickly and follow up. The OMT also didn't advise that curfew around Christmas. That's just moving insight. We know more about these viruses. Then it was all speculation, now we know a little more about that extra infectiousness. We didn't know that at the time, so it wasn't proportional at the time and I also understand that the OMT couldn't advise that at that time. But I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u391	Well, then it's still strange. You can also make political decisions on the precautionary principle, can't you? I think that is one of the things that has so far been lacking in this cabinet, and I regret that, because I think you can do that. What surprises me further is that the arguments against the bans on flying that the Party for Animals has recently requested were that this is not proportionate and that medical personnel can no longer fly. There'll be no more freight, you won't be able to do anything. That was one of the arguments that was frequently mentioned against our flight bans, and now suddenly it can. Then I think, "How is that possible?" So then those arguments are not correct, or have we changed something in the meantime that makes it possible now? I find that strange, because those are arguments used against our motions and against our requests, whereas it is now stated that we are doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u392	As far as cargo is concerned, of course, it has never been said that it would not be possible at all. Only you can see that a lot of cargo is also carried in the belly, in the belly, of a passenger plane. That then falls away, so you would certainly make it harder for the cargo to be carried. It has never been said that there could be no more freight traffic at all. And of course you are missing a very large category; it is rather intense, because you can hardly do anything anymore, almost no one can fly under a flight ban anymore, when we had, of course, the European entry ban. You can read on national government.nl that we have also deleted. That's quite a long list of exceptions from people who were allowed to fly underneath. For example, I would like to look at the business travellers, who were still able to fly as a necessary journey. They're coming off now, too. It goes a long way beyond the entry ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u393	Nor do I think that the Animal Party denies that it is a violent measure. We also consider this to be a serious measure. But I do find it worrying and feel that we could have done this before, so we might have avoided curfew. We could have thought about such scenarios in December, at Christmas, when we were warned of such a virus. In addition, I ask myself the following. I wonder how you look at that. We are introducing a flight ban for the whole of South America, but we know, for example, that there are very frequent flights between Brazil and Portugal. I cannot help but fear that the Brazilian variant is already in Portugal, as there are enough Brazilians working in Portugal who may have been home at Christmas. Those are scenarios that I think are ahead of us. I can't wait to see how we see that. For example, the United Kingdom is going to impose a flight ban with Portugal. Apparently we don't, but that still creates a risk. People can switch, people have transfers; a flight ban is not enough for South America, South Africa and England, I think. That virus can still spread in different ways. I wonder how we're gonna tackle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u394	Then I can reassure Mrs Van Esch. The experts at the RIVM and in the OMT monitor the situation very closely around the world. As soon as they advise us that it is now important that we take action in relation to Portugal, I will of course do so immediately. Then we can respond to that in a few hours. I would like to add that, of course, this is a different situation, because it is an EU country and we can never impose such a flight ban for more than 14 days. You have to notify this to the European Commission, because the free movement of persons within the European Union is seen by most Member States as a great asset. But if I have to, I can do it right away. I have just indicated to you that this can be done on weekends if necessary, but I think it is important that we do not do so on our own at IenW or at VWS, but that we do so on the basis of expert advice. They follow exactly what is happening, what is happening with sequencing in those countries and what is the seriousness of the situation. That is what we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u395	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u396	Yeah, finally. On the one hand, I understand that, but then we're always one step late. That's what I'm trying to tell you right now. I think we'll have a moment when we're about to set up that flight ban. So the situation in such a country is already disproportionate, as we already know in Portugal. We see a bizarre increase in the number of infections there. We can see that; we can already get the RIVM figures inside. We see them lying in front of us and yet we are still waiting. Then I think, "I really don't think we can afford that." Why don't we try to get it started at least now? I think we've been waiting far too long for that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u397	I don't have to start much for that. We now have enough experience with the flight bans that we can really do that within a few hours. I believe that the OMT and the RIVM are doing these things very carefully. Once again, when the first news came about this British mutation, they immediately brought it up with us. Again, I'm being guided by the experts' advice. I also think that is the only sensible way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u398	I just heard the Minister say that she is also considering measures for motorists. I'm very curious what she'll think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u399	Well, then it's about the PCR test obligation. We have, of course, done so for all other modalities. For the trains that works now also and it works for bus, plane and boat, but of course anyone can also come to the Netherlands by car from Portugal. At the moment when I would receive signals from the RIVM to take measures there, you would of course prefer that that is also arranged for the car.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u400	But that would mean that someone who goes to the hospital by car here in the Netherlands, for example, because he works in healthcare, would have to be tested twice or three times a week in order to submit a current PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u401	I do not think so, unless that person wants to fly up and down two or three times a week to Portugal or another country to which it would apply. It is exactly the same as for someone who wants to come back from Lisbon to the Netherlands. It must also have a PCR test. So why should that be different for the car than for the plane, the train or the bus?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u402	So it's just about international car traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u403	Sure. You don't have to drive around with your PCR test all the time within the Netherlands. No, I can reassure Mrs Sazias on that. That's really not going to happen. There is also a standing exception for border traffic of border workers in certain regions. It doesn't apply to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u404	We're gonna put people back at the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u405	Well, I don't know at all. We're gonna work this out. If you enter something, of course you have to maintain it. But that's what we do with the train, the bus and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u406	We are very pleased with the flight ban as it has now been designed. We also understand that it has to be this way first and then that quarantine obligation. Portugal has been mentioned, but we are also concerned about other countries. Dubai is also one of those places where you can see the number of infections rising very quickly. My specific question to the Minister is: is she prepared to make an additional request to OMT about these specific countries this week? I agree that we should follow the experts in the advice when and when to intervene. Is it prepared to seek additional advice for these two countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u407	Mr De Jonge has just left the Chamber, but normally he is the one who requests the opinion. I think it would be fine to ask for advice on this. I'll be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u408	Thank you. The office will be cleaned for a moment and I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. Half the questions have been answered by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u409	Yeah, he's the Secretary of All Affairs, so that's okay. That's just his job. But there are still a few left, which I will try to deal with as quickly as possible, Mr President. Because, of course, that was in all subtlety your encouragement. I shall begin by examining a number of measures that have been questioned. Then I have a number of questions about vaccination and some loose issues. First of all, why the cabinet does not want to keep the number of visitors at home to two. Among others, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van der Staaij asked the cabinet to look at this again. Of course, this is a very serious measure, but if you look at where the infections are, you will see that they are at home and at home. If you want to hit that, if you want to reduce those infections as much as possible, you have to want to look for it there too. Work has just been the subject of discussion. We've been talking about the incoming voyages. The curfew is one of the measures that can help, but the visit at home is another. But you have to do it in such a way that its negative effect is bearable. In my view, that is the call I hear from Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van der Staaij. That's why we said we'd make an exception for carers. Indeed, if you have to go to your mother several times a day to provide the care you have been providing for years, that should not be affected by this measure. The aim is to reduce significantly the impact of the home visit by moving from two to one, but to mitigate the negative impact on social life by making an exception for family care. Does that mean that grandpas and grandmothers can still look after their grandchildren? It is when the grandchild goes to grandpa and grandma, because the advice does not apply to children under the age of 12. But if Grandpa and Grandma go to the grandchild, they can't. Isn't that inconsistent? Yes, so you will always have inconsistencies if you want to keep the measures a little more explainable. The possibilities for home visits are halved in the urgent advice from two to one. That means one more visit from one person at home and only one more visit from another. Mrs Dik-Faber asks how we can ensure that carers can still provide their valuable care. Well, by excluding them from curfew, but also by excluding them from the advice of visiting only one more time. It was asked whether the homeless were taken into account when the curfew was introduced. Yes, because the said self-explanatory statement, which Mr Grapperhaus has just explained, does not apply to the homeless. Many speakers have asked us what we are actually doing for all those people who are having an extra hard time in this lockdown period. That is a very fair question. We have discussed this regularly and regularly informed the Chamber about it in those far too long letters. If I add up what we are all doing now, that is so incredibly much that it is almost necessary again to put something of order and to show people the way in all those initiatives that are there. Fortunately, there are certainly not only public authorities. The most beautiful, the most important and most initiatives come from society itself. Many citizens' initiatives have been launched, for example under the headings "#Not only" and "NLfor each other." Platforms have been created that bring supply and demand together. Under the 'One against loneliness' action programme, a huge collaboration has been established between rural companies and voluntary organisations, together with municipalities, churches, museums and broadcasters, with a view to a broad commitment to breaking loneliness. There is an enormous willingness to act, which also helps to introduce curfew. In order to guide people in all listening lines and buddy projects and all forms of psychic assistance, the cabinet has established the Coronacareen Support Center. That is a very handy site and on that site you are very well shown the way in what is provided with support. This includes support for young people, because for them we have done additional things, including the Listening Line, the Child's Phone, with call circles, a listening line through the social service, through MIND Correlation for young people in need of psychological help. We have consciously created the Youth Package, a targeted financial incentive for municipalities to provide all kinds of support and activities in the field of culture and sport. We have further encouraged the use of youth workers. The approach to mental health problems also requires an additional national commitment with low-threshold psychological support. For example, a whole set of support is provided. Once again, through the Coronacare Support Center, a very handy overview and a handy signpost of all the initiatives that exist are provided. Then I'd go to quarantine duty, but maybe this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u410	Yes, Mrs Sazias and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u411	To come back to that one visitor a day. The question was correct as to whether there could possibly be two when they come from the same household. So for example, a daughter and son-in-law, who are going to visit father or mother. So not just two different people, but from the same household.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u412	That question has been raised much more often. We have said that we should not do so, because that certainly increases the risk of infection again. It is not the case that the degree of contamination is always equally distributed among all members of the household. That's what changes, even in a household. If the two of you come to visit, you certainly increase the risk of infection. And also the chance of not being able to maintain the 1.5 meters. We are very consciously saying "from two to one." There is only an exception for carers, and I think that is a very relevant exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u413	In my contribution, I would also have asked if your portion of visitation would have been done if the neighborhood nurse had been by this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u414	No, that's not a visitor. That's work. That's the kind of care that's indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u415	Finally. Someone with a disability needs guidance to visit. That's gonna be two, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u416	That's either voluntary and then it's family care, or it's purchased care via the pgb for example or in another way, and then it's just care and therefore no visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u417	Good. So that's still possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u418	Yes. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u419	Mrs Ploumen and then Mr Van der Staaij. Now, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u420	Of course, my question was also prompted by a possible curfew and the fact that more people can go out less. It could get some of us into bigger trouble. I am thinking, for example, of young people. We've heard some really nasty reports from young people with a reinforced anorexia problem. At the same time, we hear stories about less capacity in crisis relief. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how he estimates the meaning of curfew at this point. And is he prepared to take specific measures there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u421	A few things. First of all, I think we should go back to the curfew target. The curfew aims to prevent infections, especially in view of the threat of a more contagious variant on Dutch soil. That's scary. That is what we want to achieve. Anything that helps us achieve that goal, we have to do it. But it's not just about curfew. You have seen that the expectation of the effect of curfew is about 8% to 13% in respect of the R which is now higher than 1, namely 1.3 for that variant. But even if you took 8% to 13% of that, suppose it would be 13%, you'd have to do a lot more to get below 1. Of course, we need to get under one. In addition, there is the measure of the home visit, in addition to the quarantine obligation and all the other things we do to ensure that we get that R under 1 together, also in relation to that British variant. That's the first thing I want to say. It's not just that curfew. Two is that, in any case, we must do everything possible to mitigate the negative effects of all the measures we take. A number of colleagues in the cabinet are working to improve support measures in order to absorb as much economic impact as possible. In addition, there are all these social initiatives to address social impacts as best they can. In addition, when taking measures, you have to make good exceptions, which do not immediately open up the whole gate again, which eliminates the effectiveness of the measure, but which do mitigate the social impact as much as possible. That's what we do. That is why we say: yes, from two to one, with the exception of family care. And yes, the curfew, of course, and at the entrance time you pay attention to the social effects and weigh them. You continue to look at the social effects of the exceptions that can apply, and so we have come to the exception for family care. I think that, in the sum total, we are as good as possible able to monitor the balance between fighting the virus and softening it as much as possible by filing down the sharp edges of the effects of the measures we are taking to keep the virus underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u422	I understand. But my question was: if there is a curfew, it is not unthinkable that, for example, young people who have had a hard time over the last few months will not get it easy. That could mean something extra is needed to help them. In the worst case scenario, perhaps even an additional capacity for crisis relief. We hope people don't have to use it, but we don't rule it out. So that was my question. Is the cabinet at least open, if it does not want to make a social rescue plan, to signals from organisations and then to invest extra in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u423	Definitely. When it comes to crisis spots, I don't know if that would automatically be the impact, but I do when it comes to whether there is enough mental support, for example. We have the support line through ARQ, we do everything for psychological and social support. Especially if there are signs of doing more or doing other things, we can see if we should make a more appropriate exception somewhere. That's how we're going through this crisis. We have to look again and again on the basis of signals to see if there is a need to be switched on. Sure, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u424	About the two-to-one visit. I hear a great deal about the fact that the visitation rules are being seriously respected and that the urgent opinion is being taken seriously. Oh, thank God. It can affect the acceptance if people wonder if it's still reasonable if grandpa and grandma aren't allowed to go to the grandchild, but the grandchild to grandma and grandpa. What do you mean there's risk reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u425	I am going to ask Mr Van der Staaij to consider how else to communicate such a measure. Then you have a measure, with all the time "unless, unless," because there are all kinds of exceptions to the measure. This makes the measure totally non-communicable. This is not a legal measure to enforce. We can't maintain this at home. It is an intrusive advice that we give to prevent home contamination as much as possible. In addition, we say: go from two visitors to one visitor. Yes, we are already making an exception, namely for family care, because we think that the negative effect is otherwise unreasonable. We'll stick with the one exception. I think that exception to exception to exception makes a measure difficult to communicate. Precisely that means that the support base is further undermined. Of course, you always try to weigh in on that, but if we continue to make exceptions to the strictness of the measure that you can formulate with 'we go from two to one visitor', then I think we will only make it more complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u426	I get it, but I shall go back to the debate we had last Tuesday on the question of increases. These are arguments for which we do not really want too many hardness clauses and not too much customization, because that undermines the clarity. I get the point. On the other hand, I am concerned that we are reducing social contacts in concrete situations more and more unnecessarily, including that curfew and all the other measures. There's a price on that. That is why I am interested in how the Minister responds to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u427	I do not know whether the comparison with the hardness clauses in relation to the social legislation at issue in the supplement debate is reasonable. I do remember an earlier debate with Mr Van der Staaij on regional tailor-made work. The question was whether we could distinguish between regions, because if we do that, we would be much more able to meet a risk of infection that could be understood in any region at any time. At that time, we discussed in several debates that there is also a trade-out in clarity on the one hand and follow-up on the other. It is clear that the same measures should apply to the whole country. But if the level of contagion in one region is much higher than in the other, then you have to want to make a justified distinction. That's always a weighting. We're making that weighting now, too. We opt for clarity by saying that we are going from two to one, but for reasonableness and follow-up, also in the weighting of its social impact, we say: with the exception of informal care. We do this consciously this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u428	How many crisis shelters are in the ggz?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u429	Right now? I wouldn't know that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u430	Maybe you can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u431	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u432	I ask because these figures are very difficult to find. Actually, there's no national direction on it. Where do we recognize that from? That was also at the beginning of the corona crisis. Even then we didn't see how many beds were available in the hospitals at exactly what time. That question is relevant, because ic-beds can save people's lives, but crisis spots in the ggz can also save people's lives. I notice that there is not a good view of this, but I do hear from all sides that people do not have access to crisis spots. That is why I would like to ask the Minister to get a good understanding of it and also to set up a crisis structure for the ggz, so that there is a national understanding of how many crisis areas there are and that we are also going to scale up. From the stories we hear, we conclude that there are real shortages. I can't prove that to the macro figures, because I don't have any.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u433	I know this from the debate on youth care. This is not always easy, because it is not always clear what one's indication is, or what determines the need for a crisis spot. A crisis site is also not easy to define, define and define. There are a lot of variants of crisis spots, depending on the care question someone has. For psychiatric care, this is not entirely in a similar way to that for ic-care. But I do think that there should also be numerical clarity about the availability of places, both in the youth care ggz and in the adult ggz. I would like to check with Mr Blokhuis whether, and at what point, that clarity can be provided as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u434	I'm happy about that. I understand that it's a lot to ask because of the crowds, but it would be nice if we could have that information within a week, because it's really about life and death here too. We have looked at the different cities. From the organisations active in Amsterdam, we get back that there is no place for five to six people every week. That kind of thing needs to be solved. Sometimes it is in resources, sometimes it may be in cooperation with other regions. I believe that the Ministry should take the lead in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u435	I think it would be good if I had this conversation with Mr Blokhuis, also to see what can be delivered when and at whatever level of abstraction that can be delivered. So I understand Mr Klaver's question. Then there's the quarantine obligation. Mrs Ploumen asked why the cabinet had not introduced the quarantine obligation before. That was my intention, but at that time in the Chamber there was not much enthusiasm for it, I think I remember. That was just after the summer. The House was right to say that we must first make a profit along the line of support before we put the quarantine obligation on top of it. I think that is an understandable line, and that has been the commitment. Mrs Dik-Faber asks what actually happened to increase compliance with the quarantine. That has been quite a number of actions. In contact with the GGD around testing, attention is always paid to all practical and social questions about quarantine. There is a quarantine guide, in several languages, which is issued, in which you can find all support. Then there are voluntary organisations, especially the Red Cross, but also the Listening Line and the ANBO, which are ready for practical help. For example, the Red Cross has trained 85,000 volunteers to provide this help. For those who do not know how to find their way to help, we have since the second half of January also been able to refer to quarantine coaches, including the Red Cross, through the GGD, in order to get that help. In short, there is a lot of support being done. In addition, there are all kinds of target communication. They are all extremely exuberant, but I am not going to recite that information entirely. Again: why do I see so little of that myself? Because I do not always belong to the target group, for example the target group young people, which is very confronting, but I simply do not belong to it anymore. Mr Jetten asks how the quarantine obligation is arranged. Who imposes the quarantine obligation and what is the role of the judge? We wrote in the letter how we see the design in front of us. In any case, it is the way in which passengers are designed that people who board will be required to register. That registration is then used to check on a sample basis. If there is a reasonable suspicion that people are not in quarantine, enforcement will take place. With regard to the quarantine obligation for a positive test result, I currently have two options that I further explore. The first is the same as for passengers: a positive test result means automatic recording and automatic random checking, after which enforcement can be carried out. However, this could have a negative effect on behaviour, namely that people are no longer being tested. That is not the issue when travelling, because people will have to be on board anyway, but that is the issue when testing. That's why I'm working out a second option: if people who are tested get a positive test result, then they call. If then there appears to be no compliance with the quarantine, the order of the mayor shall impose the quarantine obligation. That's an indirect step. This would be deliberately chosen to prevent a decline in test readiness. I'll work out both options. They only require a higher degree of complexity in enforcement. Both options will have to be weighed against each other. We come to your Chamber with one of the two proposals. Is the judge's move, too? Yes. If people are subject to a quarantine obligation and they themselves find it wrong, then the corridor to the judge must also be open. We will take that into account in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u436	Have you answered all questions relating to quarantine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u437	One more question from Mr Veldman. Excuse me, two more questions. I also have a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Mr Veldman asked what should happen. I understood the question as: can it get a little better with the quarantine obligation? Yeah, we'll do it at the shortest possible time. I also solemnly promised this to Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen, because the flight ban that has now been introduced is also a bit in relation to the quarantine obligation. I will do it at the shortest possible time, but it is both emergency legislation and it is unique, because such a register needs to be built, and enforcement needs to be lifted. So there's a lot of work coming from behind, but I want to try to have the whole thing settled in a month's time frame. Within that month there is a legislative proposal for this, which we can therefore deal with as a matter of urgency. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked whether we would do so for all modes of transport. The answer to that question is yes. I want that for all modes of transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u438	A quick question. Can the Minister also guarantee that people's objections will be dealt with very quickly and that they will not get a ruling on them until after the quarantine period is over?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u439	Yeah, that sounds fair. In any case, as far as the current quarantine obligation is concerned, it is so incredibly complex that it would only be effective and enforceable if you could be out of quarantine long ago. But surely, if people object, they must also have quick access to the possibility of objection. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u440	I understand the Minister says it takes some time, because it's all quite technical and complicated. But I'd like to remind the Minister that we talked about a general quarantine obligation in the summer. A majority of the Chamber was not in favour of that at the time. The Minister was in favour of that and said he would continue to prepare. In the meantime, we are five months ahead and the Minister says we need another month. The Minister also knows that in the crisis we are in, with all kinds of mutated variants that may be even more serious, that the variants we already know are a month long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u441	We have, of course, continued to do so. But there's a lot to settle. On the IT side, for example, a register, a database was built. A call team should be set up, compliance and enforcement should be set up. That's not something you do in the afternoon. If you wanted to settle this in a month, that would be insanely fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u442	It's not a month, and it's not an afternoon after. It'll be six or seven months, and that's a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u443	I don't think that's a fair representation. I believe that my enthusiasm at that time was greater than that of any part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u444	Please continue. Oh, Mrs. Dik-Faber has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u445	I have a brief question for the Minister. I looked at the website of the Support Center Coronazorgen. I've seen a lot happening, but I still have that woman who feels lonely, who is just working, but who, in the course of this corona crisis that has been going on for so long, has become depressed and who visits a girlfriend once a week. Then you're gonna put that next to each other and I'm gonna ask myself, with all due respect for the huge amount of initiatives, whether she's actually been helped with this. You can find a buddy. There is also something like the Silverline, but that does not apply to her. Wouldn't it be a good idea to include someone who has expertise from the psychological care in his home, so that this can also be taken into account much more fully in the overall consideration? That's what MIND is doing today. Is the Minister prepared to look at this in order to better reflect the mental impact of the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u446	The mental impact must certainly be considered, but not in the OMT. Otherwise, the weighting of the different interests comes from the perspective of political decision-making. I want the OMT to focus on the question of how to control that virus. It then considers its opinions in the context of the social consequences, the psychological consequences and what it means for communication on measures and the economic side of measures. So I want the OMT opinions focused on the medical side in particular. Then I'll weigh in on all the other aspects later. That's what's gonna happen. This is happening, as the Prime Minister has just said, because Kim Putters, the SCP, is always at the consultation and at the weighting in the MCCb, for example. The considerations of the Social Cultural Planning Office are used precisely in the weighting of measures. We do that very consciously that way. As a result, you come home to one visitor instead of two, but with the exception of carers, to name but a few. This is how we make this type of weighting on the assembly line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u447	I understand that the Minister says that he wants to keep the balance in the OMT as pure as possible, so that the overall balance becomes the most transparent. My group believes it is important that other elements should be taken into account. Now that the corona crisis is taking longer and more measures are being taken, the emotional and mental impact simply weighs more and more. My question to the Minister is who and which organisation are involved. Who has the knowledge for this in the home with which the cabinet feeds, which ultimately brings a letter with a proposal to the Chamber? Then we can read with the Cabinet, sympathize with it and make our own assessment. I do not think that is enough at the moment, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u448	What is important is that, when we take action, we always take account of the social consequences, the economic consequences and, for example, the consequences for enforcement. All these elements are involved in the adoption of measures. We do that as a cabinet. Then, of course, it is also up to the Chamber to weigh that. The weighing of whether that consideration is sufficient makes the Chamber ultimately. This is without prejudice to the fact that you like to take the initial measures to get that virus underneath, to hit the virus as hard as possible, on the basis of an OMT advice that is built up and inspired, especially from the epidemic, from the virology. That's what you start with. Then you weigh that in the context of the social consequences. Then, of course, you cannot say: because the social or economic consequences are such, we will either not take that measure or we will not take sufficient measures to keep the virus under control. This would, of course, also lead to enormous social consequences. The loss associated with the disease and the death caused by corona naturally also leads to psychological and economic consequences. I would therefore like to say that there is no contradiction between virology or epidemiology, which is important there, and other aspects. There's no such thing as a contradiction. In the end, it is a matter of which measure you choose in measures. We have to make it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u449	I see you thinking, Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u450	I am only partially reassured by this answer. Again, I see, now that it takes longer, just to my mailbox, to the language people use, that it has such an incredible impact. I notice that people also just lose hope and perspective. This just does things to people. Of course, you need measures to control this virus. Nor is that what my group opposes. I really want to be convinced that this cabinet is sufficiently responsible for the mental consequences and that in a letter to the Chamber it is made clear how it has been considered, how it has been weighed up and what conclusion has finally been reached. In the letter I received from MIND, the organization that speaks a lot of people who are in psychological distress, it said: this is simply not sufficiently taken into account. I'm asking the Cabinet today to do so. Take another good look at it and make sure that we really keep that mental health of people on the retina, more than ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u451	For that last one, yes, it is. We absolutely do. Of course, I can also see that people are already having a hard time. But you can't solve that with a psychiatrist in the OMT. That's not gonna work. We must always respect the human dimension when taking measures, so that we can use the term that has been used so often this week. In addition, we must always think about what perspective we are highlighting. That is why we have said, for example, that primary schools should be open as a matter of priority. Unless it really is not possible on the basis of the Lansingerland research, the primary schools should simply open on 8 February. That is also the reason why we want the curfew to expire in principle on 9 February. That too is a form of perspective offering. This also means that on 2 February we have to give an outline of the scale. The OMT's opinion is not just gloomy. For the short term, we do have a little extra pressure to get that virus under, especially because of the British mutant. In the medium term, however, it also means that if we are further away from vaccination and have protected our most vulnerable people, we will be able to say goodbye to some of the measures. I think it's time we brought that story to light in its completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u452	Mrs Dik-Faber's question was whether it was included in the letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u453	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u454	I'm gonna keep going at this point anyway. When I had an interrupting debate with the Prime Minister, he indicated that with the quantitative figures from the coronadashboard, with the R numbers and all kinds of other indicators that we can see clearly, we are weighing up on the basis of epidemiology. The mental and mental state of people is a qualitative analysis. Is it not possible that this qualitative analysis is turned around, turned around, into a quantitative analysis of the mental state of the Netherlands? We have to recognise that many people are really through it. We need to recognize that things aren't going well. This is at the expense of the support for policies and measures. This is also an important indicator of how the measures actually work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u455	If that were possible, my answer would be yes. But I think the honest story is that it can't. If you let schools go to online classes, because that is safer at the moment, as a precaution, then you know that it is almost impossible to do anything other than that that is going to lead to educational disadvantages. That certainly applies to primary schools. You can then make a plan to catch up and make a lot of money available for that later. We did. However, we cannot say in advance how much education deficit that would be and quantify it. The same applies to the mental state. Yeah, I'd like to assume that the measures we need to take to get that nasty virus under control are measures that also psychically do something to people. But I can't quantify that to the extent of psychological distress that comes from it. That certainly cannot be compared to the psychological distress that would result from a virus that cannot be controlled. In short, that really doesn't get programmed in advance with numbers on a dashboard. Eventually, it's a political weighting based on the assessments you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u456	In this sense, the political weighting made by the cabinet is different from the weighting made by my group or by those other political parties. We also often see opposition parties undermining this, because there is often a last-minute change in a position. I can see in recent times that the cabinet is taking over the advice of the OMT and drawing up measures on that basis. I just heard Minister De Jonge say that a psychiatrist in the OMT isn't gonna help. Why not? Why does it have no added value to put behavioral scientists, psychologists and psychiatrists in such an OMT, who from other perspectives can contribute to mastering the break-out and better formulating positions? Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u457	The role of the OMT, the Outbreak Management Team, is to get control of the outbreak and advise us on it. We must then consider these opinions. This is done in the context of what is of economic importance, what is important for mental health and what is of social importance. We must therefore weigh up the opinions in this context. In the end, it is the task of politics to weigh these different perspectives against each other. Then it doesn't help to add those different perspectives to the Outbreak Management Team, because that can also cloud the need.I'm just saying that to keep that virus under control. In the end, there is no contradiction between what is needed from the epidemic and what is needed from the economy, or what is needed from the epidemic and what is socially necessary, because it is best for everything and everyone if we manage to control the virus as quickly as possible. That is at the heart of the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u458	Last question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u459	Mr President, concluding. If we want to manage an outbreak, do we have to take into account all kinds of other aspects than epidemiology? What is this Minister's real objection to doing so? It is precisely these different perspectives that can help to manage the break, as the name of that entire club already indicates. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u460	Then let me try to explain differently. We hear from the Outbreak Management Team that because of these new variants with a higher spread we are actually dealing with two pandemics. Because of these new variants with the higher spread, with the R of 1.3 now, additional measures are needed to control the virus. What could a psychiatrist do about it or about it? Nothing! What is then necessary, however, is that we consider what, for example, a measure such as "limiting visitors from two to one" means for the care and mental state. Then we have to consider whether there is not much more need for mental support for people. And that's exactly what we're doing. But that is the task that follows the advice given initially from the epidemic to control the outbreak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u461	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u462	With, Mr. Chairman, the questions that concern the vaccination. Several groups have asked for the choice to adapt a number of principles around the stock and around the three to six weeks step. Maybe I should start with the latter, because the question was: can I? Is that even safe? The answer is yes, because we adjust the timing of that second shot, the puncture interval, within what the EEA has approved. The EEA states that there may be a maximum of 42 days between the first and the second dose and that that period should be respected in order to provide full protection. The Health Council and the OMT further stated on my recommendation that they could imagine that the delay of the second vaccination by up to three weeks, i.e. up to a six-week interval, would remain within the range examined in the effectiveness studies and be of benefit. It also brings benefits, because because we do, we can change the principles of stock management. You know that we initially opted for stock management where we have 100% stock for each first shot for the second shot, so that you never spoil the entire logistics operation because of a disappointing delivery. But if you don't plan the second prick until the sixth week, you'll have more play to take risks in deliveries as well. That is why we have adjusted the starting point for stock management to 50%. That is not possible in all weeks, and it may be a little less, but for the time being I want to stick to that 50%, also because the deliveries really need to stabilize before you can take a greater risk. What would the risk be if, for example, you maintain zero stock management? That too has been a question. Then it could be that you've all scheduled appointments for that second shot in the sixth week. So you've already put it on focus, and if you don't get a delivery, you're gonna go over that sixth week. Then you will also go beyond the limits of what the Health Council recommends and of what the CBG recommends and of what the EEA has approved as a package leaflet. In short, in the end it's a weighting. And what do we achieve in this way? We are achieving that we can protect more people in a shorter period of time, and that is necessary, precisely because of the British variant. So that British variant has led me to take a little more risk with regard to stock management.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u463	I see you stopping, Minister, but I would like you to answer all the questions relating to the vaccines first. Then I'm gonna go see if there's any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u464	Fine. Mr Jetten asks: when AstraZeneca becomes available, shouldn't we start vaccination 24/7 like the UK? For the GGD, they are in principle open and ready to do so. The point is that we prick as fast as deliveries come in. There are simply insufficient deliveries to fill those 24 hours. But if, at some point, you can actually fill 24 hours in a meaningful way with the deliveries that come in, then I am in favour of getting as much away as possible as soon as possible. The starting point is that what is being delivered, with stock management as I have just mentioned, must really lead to vaccination as soon as possible, either in the upper arm or in the agenda to get into the upper arm. That is the starting point with which we want to organise the whole operation. If 24/7 helps, we should basically want to be open to that. Then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks why the anesthesia workers, the recovery staff and the surgical assistants were not included in the first round. The starting point of the strategy is that you protect the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them, because you want to prevent mortality and disease. That has been the choice for the strategy, and everything has been distracted from it. That is why I have freed up some of the vaccines for the people who take care of ic-care and for the acute beds in hospitals. Now that's what I'm doing for the GPs. That's what I've been thinking: if you didn't do that, there's gonna be so much failure that you can't even handle the power anymore, and that's why the British mutant. That would also turn out to be negative for disease and mortality. That is why I have said: by way of derogation from the rule of law, or you could say: in addition to the strategy we have chosen, we have made these choices. I have said very consciously that it can only be a small group. And why? Because if it's too large a group... the vaccine you're currently giving to one, you can't give to another because there's so much scarcity. That is why we need to look at the primary target group of the vaccination strategy. Those are the people who suffer most, who are most at risk of disease and mortality from that virus. That is why we make the choices we make now and that is why we also make selective choices. For example, with the general practitioners I had a serious argument. I said to them: the general practitioners will be pricked from the moment they start poking themselves, namely next Monday in small-scale housing. They'll be able to prick themselves. "Yes, but," said the general practitioners, "can't we have a larger group of general practitioners share in that?" At that time I also discussed with the general practitioners that this can only be a selective group in relation to the total group. So it's just the general practitioners themselves who will receive their first shot from... Saturday, I think. Only in the week starting on 8 February, when the other general practitioners can also be vaccinated, when AstraZeneca comes in, the rest of the general practitioner care is up. So I made a selective choice in that too, because every vaccine you put in one's arm right now, you can't put in the other's arm. Then there is Mrs Sazias' question as to whether those vaccines actually work in the South African variant. Actually, we don't know that yet. There really needs to be more research on that. We can't say that right now. But there are concerns about the South African variant and the Brazilian variant. But that's what's being investigated. We don't know yet. Vaccinates, said Mrs Sazias, can still transmit the virus, even if they have been vaccinated themselves. How is that taken into account? For the time being, of course, we are saying that everyone still has to stick to the measures. Even if they have received the vaccine themselves, just stick to the measures. Anyway, between the first and the second shot, because you're still under protection. But even after the second shot, we haven't built up group immunity with each other or enough to get that virus out the door. So you can still just get sick. Also with a vaccine that provides 95% protection, there is still a 5% chance of getting sick. For the time being, therefore, we really need these measures for a while. But the perspective is that once we've protected the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them, you can say: if they're protected, you might as well get back into those measures. Yes, it is. When that moment comes, we really can't say at the moment. Those were the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u465	Thank you. Then I have Mr Veldman, Mr Krol, Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u466	When handling that interval between the first and second shots, the two pharmaceuticals that now have an approved vaccine say: our advice is to stick to the interval that has been submitted to the EEA. For Pfizer that is a period of three weeks. In fact, Pfizer's medical director says that three things are important to take into account. First of all, Pfizer does not have any buffers or stocks. Everything they produce goes right out the door. The second is that Pfizer assumes that the country itself regulates that there is a buffer or a stock for us that they are stationed in Oss and therefore has proper stock management. Thirdly, Pfizer's director says: if there are delivery problems, you can possibly extend the interval time. If there are delivery problems and we are already at those six weeks, on those 42 days, there is no longer any argument that you can control the risk by extending that interval. Isn't the Minister taking a huge risk here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u467	No, we're taking a responsible risk here. But we're taking a risk. Mr Veldman is right about that. That's what I said. We're taking a risk here, but if we don't take that risk, we're taking a risk. Riskless operation in this business is unfortunately impossible given the pandemic, so we always take a risk. Look, if we take zero risk with regard to the stocks, so if we keep 100% in stock for the second shot when the first shot is put, then there is the risk that the rate at which you can vaccinate will not in any way keep up with the British variant and its spread. So: better two people properly protected than one person very well protected. That's the trade-off. Now, I think the director of Pfizer is right to say: most of the people who were included in the third phase of the clinical study that we submitted to the EEA prior to admission, got their second shot after 21 days. But in the admission as the EEA has done, the EEA says that it should be at least 21 days, and in any case not more than six weeks, i.e. 42 days. The conclusion I make from this, in order to take more stock risk in an ascending supply situation, is that I say: I want that second shot in the sixth week, not after six weeks, but in the sixth week, and meanwhile I adjust the stock risk from 100% to 50%. So I do have a buffer. If one delivery fails, I can handle it. If three weeks in a row all deliveries fail, then we do have a problem. That hasn't happened yet. We have seen different numbers several times, actually almost weekly, but precisely because I still hold on to 50% in stock management, I can handle that. There are also people who say: why do you keep stock at all? In fact, there are also countries that hold zero stocks. Yeah, well, then you're at a pretty big risk. The first risk is a protection risk, which is that you go over those six weeks. At least that can be done very well. The second risk is in particular a planning risk. Now we have a number of hundreds of thousands of vaccines planned to be put in place, but we will soon find ourselves in a situation where there will be more than 1 million per week. That's impossible to move anymore, so you're also taking an operational risk if you don't keep stocks at all. It is a good thing Pfizer himself says: we do not keep supplies at the factory itself. Because if you have double caution in supply, then you're sure you'll slow down then it would be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u468	It is true: life is not without risks. That's what the whole pandemic we're in might be exemplary for. But the question is what risks you dare to take, because what risks are responsible? It is precisely the last thing the Minister says: Pfizer himself uses no stocks, no buffers. Everything they produce goes right out the door. Last week we saw that when they switched production to produce more, they had a dip in their production. That is still independent of the risks that there are in production at all. In the case of generic medicines, we often see that there is a shortage, because there are manufacturing mistakes, a pollution occurs or I do not know what is happening. It just happens. Mistakes are made and things go wrong. Then it's very risky to have already put shots that you actually needed as a second shot. I would like to know from the Minister how he anticipates these risks, because I find the idea of 'with a little buffer I still have enough room to sing it out' too risky. Too risky, because it also warns: if there is only one shot and you go over the 42-day period, then that can also have consequences for the increasingly mutating virus. In the end, there will be no protection. This also presents a risk to the vaccine itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u469	The alternative, the alternative scenario, would be to maximize your risk to the stocks, so then you'll hold 100%. If you do that, you can just be much less fast. It's possible. It's a choice indeed. Of course I had advice from the RIVM about the optimization of that choice, but I finally cut this button because I think he is responsible and the alternative is less attractive. By making this choice, next week the first 90-plussers living at home can be invited. By making this choice, a week later the first 85-plussers are invited. That is quite right, I think, after debate, that debate was the question of the Chamber: make sure you bring it up. I did, but I couldn't have done that if I kept a stock of 100%. And why is there an extra need to vaccinate the people who are most vulnerable faster? That has everything to do with the British mutant. So what I have to do is optimize the rate at which I can vaccinate the most vulnerable people. What I then have to do is to be justified in the stock management that I have. For that, I have now retained the 50%. I hope to be able to sit even lower in the future. I am, of course, waiting for the advice of the performers. But in the end, it's always a choice of risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u470	That's not an answer to my question. I understand what the Minister is saying here. This is also literally in his letter, but my question was how he deals with it when risks arise. So what do the scenarios look like? I've always learned from my father that it's not bad at all to take risks, but that you have to have a relapse option, that you have to know what you do when things go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u471	The relapse is that 50% stock we keep. That's the relapse option.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u472	I would like the Chamber to be better informed about what scenarios exist if problems arise in deliveries, for example if there is no delivery for weeks. What does it mean for the people who did get a first shot that shot was actually a second shot for someone else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u473	The answer is really that the scenario there is then is a stock of 50%. That's the scenario that's going to happen: not 100% anymore, but 50%. What we achieve with this is that we can rather vaccinate the most vulnerable people. What you achieve by a larger puncture interval, where the weekly deliveries actually rise in the next few weeks, is that you can in any case vaccinate two people with the same number of deliveries instead of one very good. That's the choice you'll make in the end. You can also make a different weighting in that. Of course it is. But the fallback scenario that you have in hand at the moment a delivery fails is the 50% you hold in stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u474	I am very pleased that this interim period is now being extended where possible, because it allows you to inject vulnerable elderly people earlier, but I have a supplementary question. There is also a liability that is divided between the manufacturer and the cabinet. Could this have consequences, if something goes wrong, for the liability and then you're going to pay for more costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u475	No. I do not see that, because this fits within the package leaflet to which the EEA has given its approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u476	But Pfizer's package leaflet is different from that of the EEA and I do not know what Pfizer is going to call upon. I hope you're right, but I wanted to warn you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u477	You did. Then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u478	The EEA has granted its authorisation on the basis of the same data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u479	The Minister reports that he is open to vaccination for 7 days 24 hours a day. That sounds nice, but that's not gonna happen. However, I would like to ask him what he is going to do when that becomes possible to ensure that the GGD is ready to do so from that moment on, and really not later. The GGD now indicates that they have not actually been asked to do so, if I understand the messages. So let me give you an explanation: what are you going to ask, who and when is that settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u480	The RIVM makes the planning, with the performers. Of course, I also have administrative discussions about this myself. The changed principles, as I call them, also lead to a change of planning. That's what's under pressure right now. This changed planning means a different timing in time when you have to be ready for the large quantities that are coming, just like all changing delivery schedules mean that by the way. Agreements are made with all the performers: when should you be ready for what deliveries that might potentially enter? And how do you go through as large a group as possible in as short a time..., uh, now I wanted to say something very disrespectful. But I meant, how are you going to vaccinate as large a group as possible in as short a time as possible? The general practitioners have said that we can in principle be ready for more than half a million vaccinations per week. The GGDs have said that we can in principle be ready for more than half a million vaccinations per week. My conversation with both parties at the moment is about a situation in which much more is being delivered. I shall of course report the outcome of that conversation to the Chamber. I ask the parties: do you suggest that a lot more is being delivered, can you put a lot more away in a week? Because I would really like to; then there will be as little in stock as possible and as much as possible will be pricked. That conversation's going on right now. I shall, of course, report the outcome to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u481	I hear the Minister say that he has selected a select group of intensive covid care for vaccination. So these are care workers who work intensively with covid patients. I mentioned the group of anesthesia workers, surgical assistants and recovery staff. They shall ensure and ensure that it continues on the covid-ics and that there is sufficient capacity. Why are these groups of employees now excluded from those first vaccinations? So they actually run between colleagues who are vaccinated to take care of the same covid people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u482	It's different. We received a request from the LNAZ at the time of the ceremony, I do not know exactly what day it was; it was a request from the LNAZ at the beginning of January, particularly with a view to the arrival of that British variant. They said, "Let's make sure that that acute care axis in hospitals is guaranteed by the time we get a third wave on our plate. We are now seeing a lot of loss among colleagues, also due to illness. Because of this outburst, we will probably have too few beds because too many colleagues are sick." Of course, I spoke very well with them about this. We also exchanged that all the vaccines we would make available to them would eventually be at the expense of the primary target group that you want to protect from disease and mortality. This is, of course, to a lesser extent true of the employees in the acute care. But the conclusion and conclusion has been: it does mean that if you are no longer able to provide acute care, the disease and mortality may increase again. In short, what we need to do is to keep acute care as accessible as possible. In addition, there is a side of the hospitals and a side of the general practitioners. But for both, I have provided a limited number of vaccines. Then the choice was made. One has wondered: what employees do we see as the most vital employees for that primary process in a hospital?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u483	But now the Minister is confusing something. So I am not talking here about acute care, which, of course, is also very important. As far as I am concerned, the people there should also be vaccinated. I am referring specifically to the employees who are now being put in extra use on the covid-ics, as shelter, as some kind of capacity guarantee. Those employees, among others the groups I mentioned, are therefore excluded from that first vaccination. They're out there right now. Between the other care workers, who have been vaccinated, they take care of the same covid patients on the ic. I therefore ask the Minister whether these people cannot also be vaccinated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u484	The only way I'm gonna do that is to call off a couple of nursing homes right now. That's it. You can't set vaccines twice. So I understand the question in itself, but the only way I can do that is if I call off some nursing homes now and tell the people there: you're coming later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u485	I don't think you're getting together, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arises. You are asking your last question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u486	Of course, that's absolutely not what I want. I would like the Minister to at least state: yes, it is a bit of a double measure of what is happening here. Because the employees who work on the ic by default are among the standard ic capacity that takes care of the covid patients. They will be vaccinated. But the groups I just mentioned are out there. But these people are picking up the capacity that is just dropping because so many colleagues are sick. I understand that the Minister does not want to call off nursing homes, and I am not going to argue that either, but at least these people want to acknowledge double standards. They want the Minister to admit that he would have liked them to have been vaccinated. They don't feel recognized right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u487	I understand that very well and I hear that signal very often. That is the tricky thing when you have far too few vaccines at the first delivery anyway and you have to make a choice. You know that the primary target group in preventing disease and mortality is actually the people who are the oldest and most vulnerable. At the same time, you have people who take care of them and all who would like to be in line in front of them. During this debate, I get apps from other groups saying: yes, but what about us? The vaccine is seen as a form of recognition of the importance of the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u488	It's gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u489	It's hard to actually weigh that. Eventually, we'll...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u490	It really is going to be a repeat of the same question and the same answer. Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u491	Finally, Mr President. It is, of course, not only a recognition, it is also protection. When can these employees count on vaccination? When are they scheduled to be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u492	That depends a bit on which group it is, but that will be from the moment we have more vaccines available. We have the vaccine of AstraZeneca from 8 February; at least I hope so and I expect so. So from the moment we have more vaccines available and then again in a certain order. But let's not get all kinds of subgroups out of it. We really do that in the order we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u493	In any case, let's all be happy to see that everyone now wants to be vaccinated. A few months ago, there was still some doubt as to whether there would be vaccination readiness at all. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question refers to the question I wanted to ask. We have clear scenarios in a number of letters about what is to be expected when. Half of my question was: what does AstraZeneca's timetable look like, the vaccine that we can put in large numbers? As a slip of the tongue, the minister just mentioned February 8th. Maybe he can say a little more about it, or else in a next letter. The second part of my question refers to the debate with Mr. Veldman of just now. I understand and support what the Minister is doing with those six weeks, because we need to vaccinate more. But the question about the risks that are being taken is not fictitious. The Minister admits that, too. Then it wouldn't be crazy, if we were to talk about those vaccine scenarios, to say a little more in the following letters about what the scenarios are if those risks occur? What will happen if deliveries come later and so on? Then the Chamber will also be taken into account in what are responsible risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u494	I can, of course, describe these risks in more detail, but at the core they are about what I have just said about them. AstraZeneca, I hope, will receive a positive opinion from the EEA at the end of January, the same day or a few days later, followed by a Commission decision on admission. That would be a quick start. That is why I am considering planning myself from 8 February. After admission, a number of things still have to be done and the goods have to be delivered in the first place. I cannot say for certain about the extent of that supply, because at the moment they are only indicative figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u495	Then I wonder at what time there is more to be said about it, because this is very important. I understand the Minister's saying it won't be any more than I'm saying here. This whole discussion about scenarios around the different vaccines: in the debate it has always been a big issue, until it came back clearly periodically in the letters. That also gives peace in the debate. However, I would ask that, as soon as possible, more clarity be given to the expectations of AstraZeneca.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u496	I'm sure you can. I just need to check the schedule. On February 2, we will send you another letter sometime in the night. Then we also know what the decision of the EEA on admission has been. Then I will also go into the risks of stock management, also because there is still a lot of work to be done. I will go into the scenarios that lie ahead of us in the case of disappointing delivery, because that is how I understand the question. We know that children are obviously also intelligible for that British variant. By the way, that can also be the case with the wild-type variant. In Lansingerland there were a lot of them at that school. That was a reason to investigate further at that school, at a second school and throughout Lansingerland. We hope to learn more from this about whether children play a greater role in their dissemination and thus contribute more to it. That investigation is ahead of the OMT on January 29th. The opinion was adopted on 2 February. That is also the day we decide. I hope that we will then decide that primary schools will open on 8 February anyway. Mrs Sazias asked: why do we not extend testing to people without complaints and why do we not bring forward the expansion of testing capacity? I don't see Mrs. Sazias anymore. Of course, we bring forward the expansion of the test capacity. By the way, we have enormous overcapacity at the moment. We are also going to increase this overcapacity much further. We also added new asymptomatic groups, which was a bit hidden in the OMT advice. In addition, the OMT said: because this variant is more contagious, you might have to do something about the fifteen minutes within 1.5 meters; make that ten minutes. The second is that the OMT said that category 3 contacts from the LCI Directive should actually be added as asymptomatic group. The OMT will work that out, and then we will. So we're going to test more asymptomatic groups. Then about FFP2 masks. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen says that there are still signs that healthcare professionals want to wear FFP2 masks, but that this is denied to them. Mr Van Ark has had extensive consultations with the wide field of concern about this desire to wear more FFP2 masks and adapt the guidelines accordingly. In any case, within the current directives, it is already true that, if employees consider it necessary to wear an FFP2 mask in certain situations, it is always good. If the cooperation of an employer is lacking, an employee can report this to the Inspection SZW. Moreover, we do not know any reported signals at this time, either at the SZW inspection or at the IGJ. As Mr Van Ark informed your Chamber yesterday, the OMT has been asked to review the directive in the light of developments concerning the British change and, therefore, to consider whether the current directive is still adequate. The OMT will meet on Friday to discuss it. Furthermore, the Federation of Medical Specialists is looking at the guidance for the hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u497	I want you to answer all the questions, if you still have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u498	This is what they were.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u499	All of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u500	Yeah, this was them again. Sometimes it can be quick, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u501	A brief question, Mrs Marijnissen. Then we'll go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u502	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, talked a great deal in the Chamber about ensuring that caregivers are properly protected. Indeed, we know that the OMT is going to look at those FFP2 masks tomorrow, so masks that really protect caregivers dealing with infected people. But we're still getting these signals a lot. People work in a nursing home and have to deal with people who are infected with corona, but are not able to work with such a mask. We've been over this a million times. The cabinet says: there are enough; that cannot be the problem. I believe that this directive needs to be adapted and we need to do more, because we are seeing how quickly it is spreading the British variant and we are seeing how much we are asking society to contain it. Then it can't be that caregivers dealing with infected people still don't have the right protective equipment? If there's enough, can't we just make sure we send a supply to all those nursing homes? That would be our proposal. In any case, caregivers do not get the lid on the nose when they ask for adequate protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u503	We have, of course, first of all, at the point of contact of the inspection and inspection of SZW to examine what they know about these kinds of signals. I would also like to ask Mrs Marijnissen to give us this kind of signal when she gets it, just outside the broadcast. I'd love to, because then we can work on it. So that's one. That is why we have inspections. Two. There's a directive. That directive states in what situation you should wear which type of protective equipment, but it also says that it is always allowed and that it should always be possible to wear another protective equipment on the basis of one's own professional judgement. That is precisely the professional space that the directive itself offers. That's one. Furthermore, it has not been said that this British change also leads to another substantive directive, but that needs to be examined. I just don't know; that's really a question that needs to be asked to the experts. The FMS makes its own guidelines for the hospital and therefore considers whether this is necessary. And that's what the OMT will do for care outside the hospital, just on the basis of the expertise that is present. And if there is any reason to amend that directive, that directive will be amended. Then there is the stockpiling of the goods. In the short term, there is no shortage of this. For years, we will die in the mouth caps. Really, because by now there are an incredible amount stored. Only if an amended directive will be sufficient for a very long period of time will it be examined at this stage: will stocks be sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u504	You'll come back to that later in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u505	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u506	Fine. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u507	We're getting those signals, too. There are just care workers in nursing homes who say: I have indicated that I would very much like to work with an FFP2 mask, but my healthcare institution says that to date, according to the RIVM guidelines, a surgical mouth mask is fine. Those FFP2 masks are therefore not provided. I would certainly like to pass that on to the Minister, but that is very worrying. For example, the Minister can also read on Twitter that there are still a lot of healthcare workers who say: well, sorry, but we are still forced to work with these surgical mouth masks. Then I look at the countries around us. Even in the ski lifts in Austria one is obliged to wear an FFP2 mask. In the Netherlands, in the nursing homes where intensive work is done with covid patients, they work with surgical mouth masks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u508	I wanted to say that you asked for the same attention last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u509	That is also why Mr Van Ark has been in intensive conversation with, for example, V&VN and the trade unions. The British mutant has also had occasion to ask the OMT again: should the directive not be amended? The same goes for outside the hospital. FMS makes its own guidelines for personal protective equipment. Moreover, the current directive also states that if your own professional opinion is that another means must be worn, this can be done. What you are saying also says Mrs Marijnissen, the trade unions and V&VN, so it will certainly happen. In practice, however, it is not always the case that when someone raises his finger and says: I would actually like to wear something else, because this situation gives rise to me, that is also made available. That is why I am asking you to pass on these signals, because then we can send the inspection out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u510	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u511	I have read the letter of office of Minister Van Ark very carefully. To my surprise, it says: "The FNV also points out that surgical mouth masks have been placed on the market as a medical device and therefore do not need to be assessed by a so-called designated body, a notified body. The reason why this doesn't have to be is that this is a class of one medical device." Then Minister of Ark says, "I can't change that." Then there's gonna be a story about spray resistance. But we're working here with proven covid patients. The letter now states that these surgical masks are not even assessed by an authority. And then we assume that at least there is splash resistance. But that's not a suitable personal protective equipment to work with covid patients. That's real care workers willingly and knowingly exposing to the dangers of corona. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u512	No, those guidelines were made by the people who know about them. I'm not. The Ministry doesn't know anything about that. So those are made by the people who know about it: working conditions experts, for example, and infection prevention experts. The FMS makes its own directive for the hospital. RIVM makes a directive for outside the hospital. Now this question has been put by Mr Van Ark to the RIVM: could this new change be a reason for wanting to amend the directive? That is just based on the content. I think we should do the same, because otherwise we are going to have a debate with each other on the extent to which the different masks pass through. I don't think that's going well at all. We shouldn't do that. So, please, let's leave it with the experts. The invitation to amend the Directive on the basis of the new developments was made by Mr Van Ark at the OMT and at the RIVM. On the basis of expert opinions, this directive will be amended or not. Whether or not the directive is being amended makes no difference in some sense, because there is always a possibility for individual employees to use different types of protective equipment on the basis of their own professional judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u513	Are you going to inform the room about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u514	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u515	Finally, what I am really wondering is how it is possible that the Netherlands has a completely different scientific understanding of what is and is not good protection for healthcare workers than, for example, the World Health Organisation and the Food and Drug Administration in America. It is very strange that they say, on the basis of scientific research, "an FFP2 mask should always be used if you give intensive care to proven covid patients," whereas we in the Netherlands have a very different kind of science? I'm not an expert either, but when I look at that, I think, "That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u516	I'd really like to leave that judgment to the experts. Nor do I know what is prescribed in other countries. I can't see that at all from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u517	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u518	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u519	But the Prime Minister has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u520	One sentence, because I'm getting out of here before the European Council. You know about it, Mr. Chairman. I will be there until 5.50 p.m., but the European Council starts at 6 p.m. I can't be replaced there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u521	I was hoping we'd be done before that. Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u522	Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the exchange of views in the debate, I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas we must make every effort to prevent the import of (new variants of) the coronavirus to the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the demonstration of a negative rapid test immediately prior to departure is mandatory for all passengers flying to the Netherlands from high-risk areas and this obligation also applies to aircraft crews;]] [[whereas KLM has stopped several flights as a result of this obligation and has a negative impact on the transport of cargo and repatriation of Dutch citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to allow air carriers to make an alternative test protocol for their crew themselves, which should not lead to higher risks of imports of the corona virus to the Netherlands, subject to the examination of the alternative protocol by RIVM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the latest progress note shows that the interval between the two shots of corona vaccines is adjusted, but that vaccine producers do not recommend this;]] [[having noted that for all new appointments to be planned, the second dose of BioNTech/Pfizer is scheduled in the sixth week following the first vaccination;]] [[noting that we have been dealing with unpredictable deliveries over the past period and that the Minister has also decided to keep 50% stock for the second vaccination;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up scenarios in which a plan of approach is ready if unpredictable deliveries and restock management compromise the six-week interval between the two stakes and inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible but at the latest in the next progress letter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-918]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-919]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u523	Mr. Chairman. For the rest, I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for answering all the questions. I share with them that painful measures need to be taken, but look forward to the agreement we have made with each other that where things can be opened again, the schools are in the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u524	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u525	Cow business! Common, shameless cow business! That's what happened here. Mr Jetten and his party D66 are final through the pump. They're bent, they've gone down their knees for half an hour later. His motion can even be read in the media. The curfew half an hour later and the bankruptcy of D66 has been initiated. Their soul and salvation have been sold for the freedom of half an hour. Mr. Chairman. Now all of us are chasing Rutte, the man who said today that was of course a joke and he took it back, but he did say that he now has more power than before the fall of the cabinet. The Netherlands has a sick government, full of power lovers, narcissists and great cowards. We talked about this earlier this week. We are not, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to introduce curfew,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-920]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u526	Another motion, to get it done anyway, to avoid that code black and to have everyone vaccinated in time. You can do that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM estimated that some 3 million people are at risk of a serious development of COOVID-19 and that some 645,000 care workers are at high risk of contagion with corona;]] [[noting that RIVM modelled that at the beginning of May a code black could occur with 5,000 hospitalisations of corona patients, of which 1,700 on the ic;]] [[calls on the government to complete the voluntary vaccination of the above groups at the beginning of April, as the government intends to receive 7.6 million vaccines in the first quarter of this year and should therefore be more than sufficient,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-921]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u527	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the first-term answers and for a number of commitments made in response to questions raised. I would like to make a number of motions, including the motion that Mr Veldman has just tabled on the scenarios. I think this is very important, and I really thought it would help around the vaccines that we saw more about it in the last letter. I would like to add a question to the Minister for Health. Will he outline in the letter of 2 February what his expectation is that the AstraZeneca vaccine can be administered in the weeks after that? This is also in line with the question that Mr Klaver or Mr Jetten asked about 24-hour vaccination. How is that going to be rolled out, given last week's debate and the fact that in England the AstraZeneca vaccine is seen as the sacred grail in the fight against the virus? I will also be voting in favour of a motion by Mr Marijnissen, following the first deadline, asking for the inspection to be set up, to act harder and to intervene when employers bring their workers to work when it is not safe and homework is the motto.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u529	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u530	Mr. Chairman. The curfew is a very radical measure which severely restricts our freedom, but we are not blind to the great concerns about the rapid advance of the British variant. D66 wanted to take all the other measures before a curfew: limiting fireplace flights, testing passengers, stricter enforcement of home work and faster vaccination. These measures are now being implemented, and this helps, but according to the OMT experts it is not enough. That weighs heavily on us. After many strokes and roads, D66 decided to support the cabinet proposals for the establishment of a curfew, but with a later starting point, because of this enormous impact on the social well-being and mental health of people, especially young people. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet's intentions were to set a curfew;]] [[Whereas curfew has a major impact on people's social and psychological well-being;]] [[believes that a later date can make a big difference for many families, children, students and workers;]] [[calls on the Government not to set a curfew before 9 p.m.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Veldman, Mr Sazias, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-922]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u531	Mr. Chairman. For D66, the commitment that students and students can take their exams and then fall under the exception of curfew is also important. And, of course, the cabinet's priority is to open childcare and schools first, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u532	Mr Kuzu, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u533	Mr Jetten asked a great many questions in the first term. I wondered what answer the cabinet has now made him decide to agree to a curfew that only starts half an hour later. I sincerely ask myself that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u534	First of all, half an hour is really important. It's about people who've been working at home all day and want to run their errands. These are people who have had to teach at home and then want to walk after dinner. It's about students who want to work out in the evening. It makes a lot of difference for the social impact of the curfew. This is important for the Group of the Party of European Socialists. In addition, I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister, who has argued quite fervently why urgent action is now needed to prevent the British mutation from becoming so dominant that we will be in a third wave in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u535	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u536	Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people and adults who are in a mental crisis need to be helped, but there are often no places in the crisis services of the (youth) ggz;]] [[noting that dozens of crisis beds are unnecessarily occupied in Amsterdam alone because patients cannot drain to sheltered housing due to a lack of resources;]] [[Whereas crisis services in the (youth) ggz are life-saving, as are intensive care;]] [[calls on the government to scale up the number of crisis spots in the (youth) ggz as soon as possible, to provide additional resources for sheltered housing to improve the outflow, and to inform the Chamber on a weekly basis about the current state of affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-923]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u537	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people are still going to work when this is not necessary;]] [[Whereas, in order to combat the coronavirus, it is essential that everyone who is able to do so works at home and that, in the case of necessary work in a business premises, employers have the responsibility to comply with the corona measures;]] [[Whereas there have been recently, for example, slaughterhouses where source contamination has occurred;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently create a legal basis to respond to the failure to comply with corona measures resulting in a source contamination with a closure of the business premises,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-924]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u538	Finally, Mr President. I have already said that I see a social majority here in the Chamber. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people in the care sector are performing tremendously during the corona crisis, while many of them earn less than a moral salary;]] [[whereas the cabinet has resigned, but not the House of Representatives, which means that there is now a "social majority";]] [[considers that caregivers earn a good salary and an applause or one-off bonus is insufficient;]] [[calls on the government to make structural funds available for increases in healthcare pay and to distribute this money per healthcare agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-925]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u539	Mr. Chairman. For the SP group, it is not to be digested that we are asking a lot of society, a lot of people are asking for shops closed, restaurants closed, even schools closed, while still a quarter of the companies are breaking the corona rules. At a quarter of the companies, people can work at home, but they cannot work at home from the employer. That really has to stop. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the first corona wave the appointment "work at home, unless..." has had a positive effect on virus obstruction;]] [[whereas the sector is necessarily closed and we can expect other companies to take responsibility for reducing the spread of virus;]] [[Whereas the Inspection SZW has a corona reporting point which ensures that after intervention by the inspection.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[calls on the Government to establish clear criteria with employers' and employees' organisations for working at home, to promote this widely and, together with the SZW Inspection and other supervisors, to ensure that notifications can lead to interventions towards individual employers within a few days,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Veldman, Mr Klaver and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-926]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u540	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u541	Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier today, we have had a debate today on a serious and far-reaching measure. Unfortunately, however, this is not the first and only measure we have discussed here. I think that the closure of schools, which puts millions of children at home, is very sad to all of us. I therefore continue to call on the cabinet to make the consequences of this closure as small as possible, even in the future, and to reopen the schools first. I think we are all very much looking forward to that. The Labour Party supports everything considering the introduction of a curfew. For us, it is important for Parliament to be able to decide on a possible extension. Let us hope that we never have to have that debate. In the cabinet's proposal it was discussed the introduction of a curfew from 8.30 p.m. on. My group had supported that. We see no difference in principle between a curfew starting half an hour earlier or half an hour later, so we do not oppose a curfew starting at 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u542	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, unfortunately, we have to decide on new far-reaching measures to control the virus. Unfortunately, this is necessary because of the mutants that are grabbing around them. I would like to thank the directors for answering all the questions and for the commitments they have made. I would like to highlight one point: the effects of the measures on people's mental health. As longer measures are needed and therefore more measures are being taken, it is becoming more and more urgent to take into account the impact of measures on people's mental health in decision-making. I would like to thank the Minister for Health for the commitment to respond to this in the next progress letter. Another point that was important to my group is that there are more, but I would like to clarify it for a moment. The position of people working with a personal budget: the mental caregivers and the caregivers has also been discussed. I'm glad there's room for them to keep doing their job. The Christian Union did not reject a curfew in principle. However, we can imagine it going into later, so as to give more space for sports activities or a walk, for example. While this debate was going on, all the e-mails came in from people who said: what if I had to go to the hospital quickly or if I wanted to visit my loved one in the hospital who is dying; can we not visit with some people? That is all casuism that you cannot think of now, but which I think is very important that we deal with mercy and humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u544	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party. And I wish the Prime Minister every success. See you next time. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with an almost traditional motion by the Animal Party on a flight ban. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the opinion of the OMT that there should be no room for the introduction of coronaviruses from abroad;]] [[noting that the Government has imposed flight bans for a number of risk destinations;]] [[noting that flight bans can be avoided for individual countries, e.g. by switching;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a temporary flight ban as soon as possible for non-necessary travel from all countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-927]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u546	My group strongly suspects that this Council of Ministers has put a brake on prevention policy, while the Secretary of State for Health would have liked to pursue a more ambitious policy. Despite his resignation, the cabinet has been given room by the Chamber to fight the corona crisis. The Animal Party wants the Secretary of State to continue her work on prevention. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that medical science has stressed the enormous importance of promoting public health since the start of the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas improving the general health of Dutch people is at least as important as combating the corona crisis in the short term;]] [[points out that the Secretary of State for Health should be given every opportunity to develop effective prevention policies to improve the basic health of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-928]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u547	I see I have three seconds left. In those three seconds I'm going to state that the Party for Animals tonight is not convinced of the introduction of a curfew. That is why we will not agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u548	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u549	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. As far as curfew is concerned, I have already indicated that the SGP, taking into account everything, is not convinced that this is a proportionate measure in the current circumstances. This means that we will also vote in favour of the Wilders motion, which says: no curfew. We also see that the law invoked also says that a legislative proposal must be sent to the Chamber immediately after the decision has been taken. All kinds of questions I have left in this area can then be addressed in the discussion of that bill. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution on special education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the most vulnerable in the corona measures should be the least affected;]] [[noting that the OMT recommends that all schools open for special education, at least for children of the age of primary education;]] [[calls on the Government to use the principle that special education schools are open unless schools themselves see reason to deviate from them for the purposes of staff or pupils,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-929]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u550	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u551	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u552	Mr. Chairman. I note that we have had a debate today that looks like a charade. Just half an hour later let a curfew go: I think it's really crazy for words. In order to avoid this kind of situation in the future, I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona pandemic has not only led to a health crisis, but also a social and economic crisis;]] [[Whereas opinions from the OMT also define the corona policy and are currently presented through biomedical and epidemiological views;]] [[calls on the government to extend the OMT to include other disciplines, such as sociologists, psychologists, behavioral scientists and educational experts, for a multidisciplinary nature with the aim of providing advice from broader and multiple perspectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-930]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u553	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coronavirus is a cluster-driven infectious disease;]] [[calls on the Government to seek advice from OMT on the identification and prevention of clusters, such as in supermarkets, in order to prevent further dissemination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-931]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u554	And the final motion, about a concern that came into our house. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to national policy, clothing banks are not essential;]] [[noting that several local councils have called for closure of clothing banks;]] [[noting that clothing and food banks meet essential needs of many Dutch people;]] [[whereas many Dutch people are unfortunately dependent on donations from, among other things, clothing and food banks;]] [[calls on the Government to qualify clothing banks as essential or to enter into talks with municipalities to consider the possibilities for the provision of clothing banks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-932]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u555	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u556	Mr. Chairman. A poll among the 50PLUS supporters shows that seven out of ten people questioned are for a curfew. We'd better hit it hard now than we're gonna squirm for a long time. We have co-signed Mr Jetten's motion. Okay, half an hour later, fine. This does not mean that we do not have to stick to all the other measures as well. That is why I had tabled a motion to ask the Minister to do everything possible to talk to employers about working at home, but Mrs Marijnissen has just tabled an almost similar motion. I talked to her for a minute. My name comes under that motion, too. Then I don't have to submit these. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u557	That's the way it's gonna be. Mrs Sazias, thank you very much. This way we have fewer motions. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u558	Mr. Chairman. It is incomprehensible that we are witnessing today that this cabinet is setting a curfew. It's a massive deprivation of liberty with marginal effect and the collateral damage hasn't been mapped again. For Forum for Democracy, this is a pitch black day and we will stay against curfew. I had a motion on exams as an exception. I had also co-signed Mr Jetten's motion. But Mr Grapperhaus's commitment is sufficient, so I am not submitting that motion. Then I have two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that curfew is now imposed as a harsh measure and infringement is a criminal offence;]] [[Whereas this is a far-reaching violation of the freedom of all Dutch people;]] [[calls on the government to turn curfew into an urgent opinion and to rely on the sense of responsibility of the Dutch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the crew of an aeroplane must also be able to submit a negative PCR test before returning to the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable and practically difficult to implement;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt the crew of aircraft from this requirement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-933]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-934]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u559	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol. No. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u560	Mr President, thank you. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to vaccinate the anesthesia workers, surgical assistants and recovery staff deployed to ensure the capacity in the covid departments and the ic as soon as possible and to communicate with them the timeline of vaccination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-935]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u561	My next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make FFP2-mouth nose masks available to all health care institutions where health care workers wish to work with FFP2-mouth nose masks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kooten-Arissen, Marijnissen and Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-936]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u562	I give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State first because she has to leave at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The colleagues were so sporty to let me lead the way. I have a meeting with the European colleagues at 6:45 p.m. I have a clear number of motions. The first motion, tabled by Mr Veldman, on item No. 918, calls on the Government to make it possible for airlines to come up with an alternative to the current rules. And those rules should therefore be reviewed by the RIVM. If that can be achieved in the same safe way, then I am not against it. So I can give this motion a ruling Chamber. The motion in part No. 927 by Mrs Van Esch, the government is asking for a ban on flying, in fact for all countries. With reference to the debate, she will not be surprised that I am against this motion. The same goes, of course, for the motion in part No. 34 by Mr Van Haga. He is actually asking the crew to be released immediately from the rules we have just proposed. We don't do that, so I'm gonna advise against that motion. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u564	Thank you, Minister. Good luck! We wait for a moment and then the Minister of Justice and Security gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u565	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for having been able to discuss this subject with your Chamber at such short notice. The urgency has, I think, become sufficiently clear in recent days. I'll discuss a number of motions immediately. I shall begin with Mr Wilders' motion on item No. 920, requesting the Cabinet not to introduce curfew. I don't think it's surprising that I'm deceiving that motion. I refer, of course, to the detailed justification given by the Prime Minister in the first term. The motion in part No. Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Veldman, Mr Sazias, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Pieter Heerma asked the government not to set a curfew until 9 p.m. The government, of course, had already indicated a little, by the way, like the OMT, that it should go in between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m. The government can therefore leave this motion to the House's discretion, but I would point out that the end time will just be 04.30 hours, the time in our proposal. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 924 Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand asked the government to urgently create a legal basis in order to be able to react with closure of the premises in the event of non-compliance with corona measures resulting in a source contamination. We shall proceed with this as a matter of urgency, and we shall inform the Chamber accordingly. This is an urgent change of the Twm. I have already indicated that my thought would be: 'I am looking for Mrs Van Esch to do so in the same way as I did on behalf of the cabinet a few weeks ago with the 58p change.' So judge Chamber for this motion. Then there is the motion by Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Veldman, Mr Klaver and Mr Pieter Heerma to draw up clear criteria with employers and employees for working at home, which should be widely disseminated and also to involve the inspection closely. The starting point is, of course, that the Inspection SZW is independent and we cannot impose it all on directors, but I will of course invite her to be involved. We will also send a letter on the impact, including information on all capacity options. With this remark we can give this motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. Mr Kuzu. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Kuzu for his excellent report. I spoke to Mayor Aboutaleb about this this morning, before this debate began. The idea is also very sympathetic to me. I have made it quite clear, on behalf of the cabinet, that such a clothing bank should not, of course, ask for any consideration and should not be of a commercial nature. I'd like to have said that here. This should then be done by means of a follow-up to the ministerial arrangement and could in any case take place on 9 February. I'll leave this motion judgment room. Mr. Chairman. My last point is the Van Haga motion on part No. 933 with the request to convert curfew into an urgent opinion. I think that today's speech by both the Prime Minister and myself has been clear that this must be a measure and not an urgent opinion. So I advise against that motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was one more question from Mrs Dik-Faber. I would like to confirm that, of course, it falls within the exception categories when someone has to go to the hospital in an emergency. This is covered both by the situation of providing medical aid to themselves as well as by the disaster situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u566	Thank you. First I'll clean up and then I'll give the Minister of the United States of America the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u567	Thank you. Then I'll start with the motion Veldman c.s. in piece No. 919. It invites the government to draw up scenarios in case the deliveries fail. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. That's what I just promised. Then the motion to part No. 921 by Mr Wilders. It calls on the government to complete the voluntary vaccination of the above groups, it states that a number of the groups referred to in the first quarter are to be completed, and reference is made to deliveries. That sum just doesn't add up, so I'm going to dissuade this motion. However, since I do think that I would like to have what you want done on a quarterly basis, I am going to promise Mr Wilders that in another letter I will outline where we stand at the end of the first quarter, i.e. at the beginning of spring. That's exactly what I do by group. Then the Klever motion in part No. 925, which calls on the government to make structural money available. That debate has, of course, been held several times. In addition, Mr Van Ark referred to the oval-systematiek, to the wage development that is market-oriented, to the bonus and the specific routes, including this spring. So I am going to discourage this motion with reference to those debates. Then the motion to part No. 923 by Mr Klaver. It invites the government to scale up the number of crisis areas in the youth ggz and to provide additional resources for sheltered housing and to inform the Chamber weekly. I think that, in the context of this Corona debate, it goes too far to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. I am therefore going to discourage this motion and ask you to continue this debate with the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Then the motion to part No. 930 by Mr Kuzu, who asks the government to extend the OMT. I am going to discourage that motion by referring to the first term of this debate. Then there is the Kuzu motion in part No. 931, which asks the government to ask the OMT for advice on the identification of clusters. It was very difficult for me to place it. That is simply the work of the GGD. The OMT doesn't have much to do with that. That's just standard G.D.D.'s work. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. Then there is the Van der Staaij motion on part No. 929, which calls on the government to use the principle that schools for special education are open. That is indeed the line of the cabinet in explaining the rules in force, so I leave that motion to the House. Then the motion-Van Kooten-Arissen c.s. in piece No. 936, which asks the government to make FFP2 mouth masks available to all healthcare institutions. This refers to the debate we have had on this subject. I am going to request that this motion be retained, because we have just asked the OMT for an opinion on this matter. On the basis of that advice, we will come up with a cabinet response. This is actually getting ahead of it. I am therefore going to ask Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen to hold this motion. By the way, if healthcare workers want to use an FFP2 mask, the directive leaves that space. The motion in part No. 928 is a speech-exmotion, so I don't have to judge it. The motion in part No. 935 asks the government to provide anesthesia workers, surgical assistants and recovery staff etc.... I have said that we are simply following the order as indicated in the vaccination strategy. I follow the GR opinion and therefore advise against this motion. Then the CDA asked: take us with you to mitigate the risks of the second shot and stock management. That was actually the same question Mr Veldman had. I'd be happy to. I'll do that in another letter on February 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u568	Brief question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u569	I have one comment and one question. The motion on ggz is indeed important in this debate, because it is about taking measures that do have an impact on people's mental health. Now the votes on this motion are only on Tuesday, so I would ask the Minister to consult with his colleague Mr Blokhuis on this and then give a written opinion on this motion. We've got till Tuesday. The motion is now being served with: this does not fit into the scope of the debate and I advise against the motion. I disagree with that, and I hope the Minister does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u570	Well, no, because I just said that. I disagree. I would, of course, like to go into consultation with the Secretary of State on the impact on the ggz and the questions, because I have already promised that: will it be possible with the current beds and would it not be much better if we had a better and also a national view on the number of available crisis beds? That's what I promised. I do. It is not going to work, I think, to send a letter next week, because that is really a more thorough debate. However, the motion states that 'the number of crisis areas should be increased', so the conclusion is already drawn: expand. And it says: to make additional funds available for sheltered residences and so on, and to inform the Chamber once a week. That is beyond the commitment I have just made. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u571	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. We shall then vote on two motions: a motion by Mr Wilders and a motion by Mr Jetten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u572	Yeah? Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u573	I would like to ask whether we are also going to be discussing the motion for a resolution this evening. 923 can vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u574	Yeah, if that's okay with everyone. Oh, it's the motion in part No. 924?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u575	Yeah, the motion to part No. 924. Sure that's the right number. No. 924 seems to be correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u576	Okay. That is Mr Klaver's motion and Mrs Ouwehand's motion, just to be safe? Yeah? Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u577	I would also like to refer to the motion on part No. 933.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u578	Yeah, well, then we might as well have all the motions... yeah, fine, that's fine. What motion was that, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u579	The motion in part No. 933.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u580	That's good. I thought we were just gonna vote on two motions, but I keep seeing that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u581	Could you then once again mention the various motions for a resolution on which we are going to vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u582	There are four motions for resolutions: one by Mr Wilders, one by Mr Jetten, one by Mr Klaver and one by Mrs Ouwehand, and one by Mr Ouwehand. 924 in my view, and your motion in part No. 933. That's right, no. 933? Yes. Then that's what we're gonna do. Then I'm really suspending for a few moments.
