ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35445, the adoption of the cooperation agreement on partnership and development between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, established in Munich on 18 February 2017. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is particularly good to see the Foreign Minister again. We don't see him much here in this room. It is therefore excellent that we have the opportunity to discuss a very important subject. The cooperation agreement we are talking about is basically a good text. It is a good cooperation agreement, which was concluded in 2017. As such, we can simply agree to that. That is not the point. The point is that a lot has changed in Afghanistan since then. I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about that. The situation is changing, among other things, because of the agreement concluded last year between the United States and the Taliban. With this the United States has actually achieved unilaterally with the Taliban the agreement that on 1 May this year, i.e. more than six weeks from now, all NATO troops must have left Afghanistan. At the moment, the question is: what is the situation? President Joe Biden's new administration of the United States has presented new plans, including a peace plan. That plan was sent to the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan. I have received answers from the Minister to the questions we have asked about peace talks between the Taliban and the Government of Afghanistan in Doha. My question was: how do the Netherlands and the European Union participate in this process? How do they contribute to ensuring that human rights, the democratic rule of law and all developments that have been achieved over the last 20 years are not destroyed in negotiations with the Taliban? The Minister replied briefly: that is an Afghan matter. It's about peace talks between Afghan partners. Then I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks about an American plan for Afghan peace now. Afghan partners have actually played no part in this. The Afghan Government has even received a high-pitched letter from the US Secretary of State in which it is written: this is it, so sign by the cross. So I'd like to hear from the Minister what he thinks now. Mr. Chairman. The concern of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is that a high geopolitical game is now being played in the region. The United States presented this plan. Then the United States said: we must come together in Istanbul, in Turkey, with those regional powers and talk about peace with each other, about some kind of drawing table construction for the future of Afghanistan. That has not yet been said whether Russia took action. So there is now a conference in Moscow on 18 March, where those regional powers and the United States have been invited to discuss this with those actors from Afghanistan. My point is that the European Union is nowhere to be found. The European Union has not been invited, as far as I have been able to see in the media. So the question is how the Netherlands, European countries or the European Union are involved in these processes. We are concerned that agreements should be made again in a conference where human rights or the democratic rule of law may be used as change with the Taliban to achieve a goal, namely the withdrawal of military forces. Then there is also a cost picture presented and the EU can come and pay. But then the EU would simply not have been involved in all these agreements. So the specific question is: is the Netherlands invited? Are other European countries invited? Is the European Union invited to attend these talks? Second. To what extent did the European Union or other European countries contribute to the plan now presented by the United States as a peace agreement, a peace agreement? There is a problem with the peace agreement that has now been presented. Maybe it's more than one. One of the important points is that the Islamic element is being properly strengthened, by the United States, by Western countries, who moved into the country twenty years ago to expel the Taliban and at least Al-Qaeda there. There will need to be a high council of Islamic jurisprudence, which should actually review the entire legislation and policy. Then, of course, the Islamic regime of a country such as Iran comes to mind. How does the Netherlands view this? How does the European Union view this? There are billions invested. Human lives have been given to bring about a number of changes in Afghanistan. And now, almost twenty years later, those who moved into the country 20 years ago for democracy and for freedom, for the liberation of women, present a plan describing these kinds of elements. I am therefore very curious to see what the position of the Netherlands is in this regard. Mr. Chairman. The second point, which is very important, concerns the reliability of the Taliban. Can you make arrangements with that? Since that agreement between the Taliban and the United States, violence against the Afghan people has increased enormously. In the last two weeks alone, there have been ten major attacks, in Kandahar, in Kabul, in Herat. So there have been attacks in all the cities of Afghanistan. There's been a lot of deaths and a lot of injuries. You can see that the same strategy is being used as in Syria and Iraq, namely creating chaos, committing attacks and thereby forcing people to accept a particular system. There are also very targeted attacks against journalists, against judges, against students. So it is a terrible picture of the situation in Afghanistan. The international community will then make agreements with the Taliban and thus strengthen their power. Then my question is: what is the European Union's vision of developments there? How do we ensure that what has been achieved so far in the area of human rights, the democratic rule of law, while the outgoing minister and his colleagues in the European Union, is not perfect; not much has been achieved here, and not much is being sacrificed for the withdrawal of the military from Afghanistan? Mr President, my final point. Will the Minister promise that the Netherlands and the European Union will actively participate and contribute to the process and ensure that at least human rights, women's rights, democratic principles are not sacrificed? What does such a partnership mean when a regime comes into power with the Taliban, where they will have a lot to say and what has been achieved so far is largely destroyed? Are these agreements still going to apply? Will the European Union be trading? Will the European Union contribute to the development of this system? How should we see the European Union's vision of the future of Afghanistan, where the Taliban is a very important power in the country? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Beuker on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Afghanistan and the Netherlands have had a special relationship since 2002. For almost twenty years now, Dutch soldiers have been helping to improve security and the general situation in Afghanistan. More than 20,000 Dutch soldiers have been deployed there. Our brave compatriots worked mainly in Kabul, Uruzgan provinces, Kandahar and later in Kunduz. Even today, we still participate with 100 soldiers in the Resolute Support operation. The Netherlands has also contributed a great deal, I might add, from foreign affairs and development cooperation. Hundreds of millions of euros have been invested in all kinds of development projects and programmes. Can the Minister outline the concrete results of all these efforts? Unfortunately, an integral evaluation of the then renowned 3D concept (diplomacy, development and defence) has not yet been carried out for Afghanistan. It's about time. What are we waiting for? We also like to hear that. After all, 25 compatriots have made the highest sacrifice in Afghanistan. Hundreds of Dutch people have also returned mentally and physically wounded. This must never be forgotten, but this commitment must also be evaluated in a coherent and context and learned from it. Today, President, we are discussing an initiative by the European Union to implement a cooperation agreement with Afghanistan. In view of the current situation, Mrs Karimi has already pointed out that with all the bombings that took place last weekend in mind, she is very curious about its added value, its effectiveness and, above all, its realism. What are the consequences of this agreement for the Netherlands? Are we giving carte blanche to the European Union? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. There are already a lot of national and international support operations but also NGOs active in Afghanistan. This EU story seems much more of the same. Here too we would like an explanation from the Minister. I have vivid memories of a few Russian colleagues who warned me in 2006 during the G8 in Moscow, where I was allowed to participate as military advisor to the Minister for Development Cooperation. It was announced at the conference that the Netherlands would go to Uruzgan with a task force. That was a surprise for me at the time, too. One of the Russian colonels who also participated in the meeting had been in Uruzgan a few years before in the context of a very different commitment. He trusted me with this. "Do you know what awaits you there? You simply go back to the Middle Ages, and that in almost all areas." That turned out to be very wise words later. We've known. I just need to remind you of some horrible stories of the chai boys. Nevertheless, the Netherlands has done a great deal for the Afghan people, especially for girls and their education, local security and women's rights. Unfortunately, the Netherlands and its task force have left Uruzgan too abruptly and prematurely for wrong domestic policy reasons. Unfortunately, the results achieved mainly locally could not be sustained. In the meantime we hear very little about it. The agreement between the European Union and Afghanistan sought closer cooperation between the two parties in a wide range of policy areas. There is talk of "the decade for change." Respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law is the starting point. My group has no problem with that, although it is probably true that the wish here is very much the mother of the thought. There is still a great deal to be done, given the latest developments, and so is for many decades. The cooperation agreement was concluded in Munich in 2017. Unfortunately, since then, there has been no real improvement in the situation in Afghanistan. In fact, things are getting worse. The education of girls and women's rights is also downright bad, and the Taliban are gaining more and more ground. Unfortunately, this is becoming more and more clear to us. The cautious positive developments have mostly evaporated and the perspective for the coming period is not really good. Much will depend on the way in which NATO cooperates with the United States, and that is only the question of whether it will make an effort following the agreement reached with the Taliban. But it will also depend on the Western countries not losing their courage. The Nanninga Group is well aware that a safe environment is an essential prerequisite for achieving results in various areas of development. The many bureaucracy and the heavy structures that characterize the UN and the EU, combined with the unwillingness of many NGOs that do not want to be coordinated, are not really helpful or motivating. Are we really going to work with pre-arranged, concrete success factors, measurements and coordinated, long-term commitment? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. What are the preconditions for him to participate in this? In addition, we see a wide range of policy areas in the agreement, up to the Climate Agreement, without real choices being made. The EU wants to do a little bit of everything in this cooperation agreement, up to nuclear safety. What's missing here is focus. In addition to the necessary overall security in Afghanistan, a targeted approach to the massive corruption is also required. Otherwise, the water will continue to carry to the sea. My group therefore calls for a focus in these areas for the international community: security, human rights, education and the fight against corruption. The Netherlands could focus its OS efforts both financially and organizationally on the support and development of the province of Uruzgan, where we started, without high-profile statements and roaring dialogues, but with concrete local programs and projects and results, and especially with short lines and supervision. However, the question is whether this can be done without Western military presence. I am curious about the Minister's position. Instead of using our resources to take this hopeless path of poaching and opaque situations and support the EU bureaucracy, we would, through our own embassy, do justice to the sacrifices and local investments made by the Netherlands. We are in favour of strict control by the donor Member States themselves who want to invest in the development of Afghanistan and see these efforts and choices as a national responsibility. Good coordination and division of tasks between Member States and central coordination could easily be achieved by the United Nations or NATO. This gives short lines and direct influence and accountability to the own citizens of the so-called donor countries, but also a clear picture to the Afghans. I would also like to table a motion for that. The: Mr Beukering, Mr Berkhout, Mr Nanninga, Mr Van der Linden and Mr Van Wely proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union has a cooperation agreement with Afghanistan;]] [[Considering that a wide range of projects and programmes can be (or can be) rolled out in a wide range of policy areas;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands may provide funds for this;]] [[invites the Government, if it participates and/or contributes to this cooperation agreement, to concentrate the Dutch resources on the fight against corruption, education and women's rights in particular in the province of Uruzgan and around the areas where Dutch soldiers are (or are) deployed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35445-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-12.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-12.u7	Thank you. Then I shall suspend the sitting, but only after I have asked if one of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-12.u8	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, pending the Secretary of State for Legal Protection.
