ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35529, Authorisation to establish the Dutch financing and development organisation Invest International, in short the Authorisation Act establishing Invest International. I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the Minister for Finance to the First Chamber. Only the first term of office will take place today. The continuation of the debate will take place shortly on a date to be specified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome, ministers. You're good on time. That compliment's back in the house. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet wants to put away 833 million in taxpayers' money through a private company called Invest International. This amount serves as a lubricant for carrying out projects that the market does not have, but which are on the left-hand agenda. Actually, it's just rolling out left-wing hobbies, always funded from other people's money. This is then referred to as "additional contributions to the market." How do you make it up? Until 2030, the guiding principle of this political agenda is the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, i.e. the SDGs. What will be the guide after 2030? I don't know. Invest International's goals are so broad that with a little creative shopping a fun, matching guideline can be found. In this bill, Invest International is the intended platform for rolling out projects that risk trying to solve global problems. For this purpose, a holding company is set up with three subsidiaries for the time being, with separate tasks: to invest, develop and regulate. Since the number of daughters is unlimited, one of them can be added. With what job? I don't know. How will the ratio of shareholders lie? I don't know. This is an important point in relation to the audit function of the General Court. Who knows, let's say it. Mr. Chairman. The investment daughter is going to bank remotely. Projects to which commercial banks and private investors do not want to burn should be helped a little. It is up to Invest International to pull these lenders over, because they will only step in if their risk is limited and outweighs their profits. That's why the investment daughter has to come up with money and guarantees. To provide this daughter with capital, the government pays 833 million euros into the pot. This is packaged in a so-called financial transaction, so that this issue does not affect the EMU balance. But, yeah, does it matter? Have there ever been countries within the monetary union sanctioned for exceeding the EMU balance? Or is this an opportunity to distance the poetry and Parliament? As soon as this bill is passed by the Chamber, her controlling role has been played out. As a sweetener, Parliament can only look at reports presented by the Minister. It can hold a debate on this and also table a motion on it, which the Minister can simply ignore. In the worst case, a minister is sent off and the game goes on to the marbles afterwards. Ministers can proceed as they please with exercising shareholder rights, such as changing the statutes, changing the ownership of shareholders and steering the strategy. The allocation of new tasks can also be regulated by a general measure of governance. Mr. Chairman. You shouldn't think it's just the one-off capital charge for the investment subsidiary. Every year, subsidies will also flow to the developer and the regulatory subsidiary. Then this trio takes place behind one counter. That would be so easy for the interested companies at least, that is how it is sold. However, the past shows that companies can find their way when they smell profit. After all, they are entrepreneurs for a reason. Nevertheless, the Minister is drowning in it. Behind this window, various expertises will be brought together, so that there will be formal and informal exchange of knowledge, best practices, procedures and so on. All this is covered by a single board of directors, which draws up a single strategic plan for the company and all its subsidiaries, for which the supervisory board is once again required to approve. And that's how everything gets back together. This while the Minister states that mutual influence and the exchange of improper information should be avoided. On paper there are so-called Chinese walls built up, but do they stand up in practice? Now the corona measures put a brake on the exchange of free thoughts. Digital meetings don't really argue well and making excuses at a distance of 1.5 meters is tricky. As one of the few political groups, the PVV Group has asked for the presence of the Minister of Finance. After all, he is asking for a mandate for the establishment of Invest International. The State receives 51% of the shares and the other shares go to FMO. The FMO is a financing company for developing countries, a nv with a bank licence and with a State participation of 51% of the shares. The remaining shares are largely owned by ABN AMRO, ING, Rabobank, Triodos Bank and the RegioBank. And there seem to be other shareholders. Trade unions would also be involved. Can the Minister indicate which other shareholders are involved? The statutes play an important role in the establishment of the holding company. There are a few remarkable things in there. It is striking that there is a discrepancy between the objective described in Article 3 of the legislative proposal and the objective described in Article 3 (1) of the Statute. For example, the draft law describes that Invest International carries out its activities in addition to the market, but not in the statutes. That's weird. These are, among other things, the additional activities with which you avoid the risk of being accused of state aid? I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, the objective is much broader in the statutes. The articles of association add to the end of the term "anything related to it and may be conducive to it." There's lots of things you can stuff under there. Surely it can't be that the statutes aren't in line with the bill? I'd like a response from the Minister. Then the board of directors and the supervisory board. Both a board member and a commissioner may not participate in deliberations and decision-making within his or her gremium if he or she has a personal conflicting interest in the company, directly or indirectly. May any other conflicting interest, other than a personal conflict of interest, indeed? Shouldn't it be simply that the person concerned should not participate if there is a conflict of interest in any form? I'd like a response from the Minister. Remarkable is the possibility for a member of the Management Board to switch directly to the Supervisory Board and vice versa. This could create an un-know-it-your-own situation. For example, a board member can approve his own strategic plan. Why was this unusual construction chosen? Or is this a mistake? I'd like a response from the Minister. Then a comment on the transfer of the company, or almost the entire company, to a third party. This may be decided at the general meeting, as is set out in Rule 16 (7). But how does this relate to Article 5 (1)? There it can be read that shares A can only be transferred to a person who is a party to the shareholders agreement. But the parties in question are only the State and FMO? How can there be a third party? Are shareholders of FMO indirectly also covered by the shareholders' agreement? Or is it the transfer of shares B? But these can only be transferred to the company itself, or to capital companies of the State, which directly or indirectly has all the shares outstanding. I'd like a response from the Minister. But, Mr. Chairman, we're not here yet. In addition to the fact that the statutes of subsidiaries can be amended, these subsidiaries can also be dissolved, converted and merged. The same goes for the investment daughter, with her dowry of 833 million; this one can just slip away. It seems that Parliament has no control over this. I'd like a response from the Minister. So much for the statutes. Mr. Chairman. Invest International would not only work further on the market, but also on FMO. The State receives 51% of the voting shares, but with the combination of the other shares destined for FMO, and the fact that some important decisions, such as amending the statutes, require a two-thirds majority of the votes, FMO actually gets a right of veto. In addition, 49% of FMO's shareholders, such as commercial banks, trade unions and private investors, do not always have the same interests as the government. This is a base for trouble in the tent. And how reliable is this banking club? How high is the SDG content of FMO in practice? Not that the PVV has anything to do with SDGs, but the minister does. Or isn't it? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In projects where FMO is involved as a funder, abuses would occur. Reported incidents range from environmental damage, murder, manslaughter, violence, intimidation, repression to arbitrary arrests if the indigenous population opposes the arrival of, for example, a dam, a coal power plant or the construction and operation of palm oil plantations. Palm oil plantations, for example, do not shrivel to send their workers into the forest with a daily wage of 2,000 Congolese francs. That's about a euro. That is more than a third of what the World Bank considers to be the absolute minimum. It's even more wretched for women. They're not even getting half of this lousy pay. What do you mean, equal rights for women? What do you mean, Gender Agenda? The summit of FMO admits to be familiar with these abuses. They seem to have a list of problem projects. What are they doing with it? They're tracking them. What else? It's not known. Perhaps the Minister could explain this further. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. FMO is a development bank and provides loans to promote growth in developing countries. But who benefits from this growth? Often the population lives in poverty under a corrupt regime. By focusing on private companies, the FMO circumvents the direct pocket-filling of civil servants. This bag-filling has been moved to tax havens. There are companies that, with the help of a loan from the FMO, received an extra boost and did not hesitate to channel their profits to exotic places. Let me give you an example. Nigeria is rich in oil and exports annually for 38 billion dollars. However, the government did not manage to give more than half of Nigerians access to electricity. To avoid corrupt officials, the energy sector was privatised. The company, Azura Power, had to plug in every Nigerian household. They received 177.5 million dollars, including 40 million dollars from FMO. The leaked Paradise Papers show that part of the profits went to Mauritius's tax haven, which means that the company in Nigeria only pays 3% tax. What kind of hypocritical gang we have to deal with is the mention on Azura Power's website: "We do things for the benefit of the people or collectives in the company, not for ourselves. It is much more rewarding." Well, you've got to say it. Currently Azura Power is active not only in Nigeria, but also in Senegal, Kenya and Mozambique. It is expected to expand further on the African continent. So the party's getting even bigger. Mr. Chairman. I have a few examples of paradise investments related to FMO: $90 million to the Argentine forestry company Celulosa with companies in tax havens such as the Bahamas and the American state of Delaware. Behind the companies is the richest man and former Minister of Uruguay. Then a real estate investment via Peninsula Investment Groups, based in the Bahamas, with as a major shareholder the wealthy heir to the Swiss pharmaceutical company Novartis. New Forest Tropical Asia? Cayman Islands. Kenmare, an Irish mining company, operates the largest titanium mine in the world, but barely pays taxes in Mauritius. Mr. Chairman. In reality, the list will be much bigger, because despite the fact that FMO indicates that it does not want to participate in these profit shifts, it now turns a blind eye and lets the big ones continue. The FMO-manager taxes, Yvonne Bol, therefore reacts laconically. I quote: "We have several objectives for our funding. If everything is right for us in terms of economic development and corporate social responsibility, and if it contributes to reducing poverty, do you have to cut a deal on the tax structure that is therefore perfectly legal?" Is this the sustainability that politically correct the Netherlands is talking about? Locking down corporate profits seems to be a matter of corporate social responsibility. And would it really contribute to reducing poverty? Everyone understands that a country can only become independent by developing. Taxation is essential for a sovereign, well-functioning state and contributes to implementing its own policies. Or is it not the intention of these countries to stand on their own two feet? Locking down corporate profits and shipping workers on a hunger wage do not contribute to a well-functioning state. In fact, it is contrary to the agreement between the Dutch State and FMO. It describes that, among other things, the SDGs are used as a guide for solving global issues. And then the demand comes up: why should the Dutch taxpayer pay maximum and can companies, through constructions in tax havens, pay minimum? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. FMO is a commercial club. Now there's nothing wrong with commercialism, but you have to seriously ask yourself whether you should give such a club an extra bag of money and give it a right of veto. It is an organization that is aware of major abuses within projects and that must tempt companies of wealthy shareholders to invest. It's an organization that doesn't stand in the way of lugging company profits into tax havens. Mr President, I will conclude. In case of special constructions you should always be careful. This bill is based on all kinds of special constructions: avoiding state aid, avoiding exceeding the EU balance, raving statutes, a questionable partner with veto rights. Parliament is being put at a distance and with this bill reduced to a paper tiger. And all that to push through the ideology of the United Nations. That's crazy. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Knapen on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by complimenting the cabinet. These compliments are especially for patience, because this subject is already on the to-do list for two Cabinets and it doesn't matter if it didn't work out again. But if all omens do not deceive, then patience is rewarded for a long time. If we look at today's bill a little more through the wide-angle lens, then it is quite a special historical lesson. The spirit of time usually blows into our country from the West. And not only that, because we tend to get a little crazy. For example, in the spirit of the Chicago economists and Ronald Reagan, we have deregulated and privatised for decades, and we have set up the National Investment Bank, a symbol of the Marshall Plan and public investment. As I said, sometimes we go a little crazy. No other Western country did this. America and the Great Britain of Thatcher didn't do it either. We did. A decade later we now have Invest-NL, which was approved in this house, a few months before the pandemic arrived. Invest-NL is still in its infancy. Today there is the legislative conclusion, Invest International. Our group is pleased that it has finally arrived. Of course, you can make all kinds of comments. Maybe the original idea for Invest-NL to do everything wasn't that crazy. But that is what the cabinet says on the other hand that it is a completely different activity. Invest-NL often involves long-term, sometimes subordinated loans, investment and project development at Invest International. At Invest International you need to entame and facilitate investments. Grants are to be awarded from various pots of the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland and then a developer has to be set up to do FMO's international project development. That is the current Business NL programme. Invest-NL is also quite a complex holding company in the future. Anyway, every construction somehow remains a compromise between pluses and minuses. That is not so bad if we continue to be practical and do not make the current order a prestige case. As far as we are concerned, the efforts of these ministers to put an end to the mess of regulations and finally to make Dutch entrepreneurs that one-stop shop a reality. Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House much attention has been paid to ensuring corporate social responsibility in the business plans of Invest International. That is good and it is now good in the bill, but fortunately, I add, it has not become so rigid that it becomes unworkable or presumptuous. Ultimately, what matters is that we can do something for entrepreneurs who want to be active in distant, developing countries. We all know how annoying it is to always lag behind foreign competitors. The British, the French, the German, the Swedish, the Italian entrepreneur who encounters an interesting project always has an extra oil spray in his pocket to make the doors there more flexible, or because there are opportunities for bridge financing at home, or because risk capital is easier to mobilise at home, or because a trusted bank is operating around the corner. Dutch entrepreneurs, mostly SMEs, are often on their own and opportunities are lost. In Invest International we see a serious attempt to get Dutch projects to increase our earning capacity there. Do you think it's gonna work? Well, that doesn't work without taking risks. The question is whether a public undertaking can still do so, or rather whether it still has the courage to do so. There is little room for trial-and-error in the public debate. The tolerance for errors is not great in Parliament either. "Schande" is easily called. Well, connecting audiences and privates is complicated, too. We have to be honest about that. In both sectors there are very talented and competent people around, so is my experience. But my experience is also that the private sector is sometimes a bit sloppy with processes and procedures and very focused is the product, the result. In the public sector, it is often the other way round: all attention to process and procedures, less to the product, less to the result. That makes sense, too, but public and private at the same time is a difficult link. It is difficult, but in our view it is also much needed. Perhaps the Minister would like to reflect on this one more time. My group also says above all: let us get lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Prast, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, in the context of transparency, I report that I am a member of the advice board of the Volksbank, which includes ASN, and shareholder of PAL-V, a Dutch start-up for the production of flying cars that received a subsidy from the Ministry of Economic Affairs at the time. Invest International should support activities and projects that contribute to the Dutch economy by improving the international competitiveness of the Netherlands, improving the earning capacity of the Netherlands and providing solutions to global issues such as contributing to sustainable economic development with international projects. The latter is a quote. First of all, competitiveness. In 2020, the Netherlands ranked fourth in the IMD world ranking of most competitive countries, two places higher than a year earlier. Why does the government want to intervene and spend taxpayers' money to further improve Dutch competitiveness, I ask the Minister. International competitiveness is always about a place vis-à-vis others: competition, a competition. The Minister indeed used a competition metaphor in the debate on the bill in the House of Representatives by saying that we are behind by 2-0. Can the Minister explain why she considers this relative position so important? Is the law aimed at doing better in financial and economic terms than other countries or, on the other hand, at reducing the number of countries we are doing? Mr. Chairman. Then improving the earning capacity of the Dutch economy. Article 1 of the Law does not explain the concept of earning power. Fortunately, the term does appear in the state budget. Earnability is the capacity to create prosperity in the long term, which is about prosperity in the broad sense. In the case of broad prosperity, according to the CBS, it is not about the here and now also about later and elsewhere. That is to say, next generations and other countries. Since 2018, the CBS has published the broad prosperity monitor with figures for material prosperity, health, social cohesion and the quality of the natural environment. In the first monitor, CBS concluded that our country was well above the EU average in terms of, among other things, material prosperity, but far below the average in terms of health and environment. According to the last monitor, most indicators show a stable or even rising trend, while the Netherlands was already at the top of the European ranking. But in the areas of health, labour and leisure, society and the environment, one or more indicators were red. This means a negative trend, far below the EU average. A main conclusion of the CBS is that the Netherlands overtakes natural capital. Mr. Chairman. Given that, according to the bill, Invest International has to contribute to the earning capacity, given that earning power is about the broad prosperity, given that the broad prosperity is made up of different components and that the Netherlands is doing very well for some components and for others very badly, my question to the Minister is: to which components should Invest International contribute in particular? That question is urgent, because the components are not always mutually exclusive. Thus, according to the CBS, the environmental and raw materials component of the broad prosperity benefit from less trade, while Invest International should increase exports. Frank den Butter, former member of the Scientific Council for Government Policy and Professor of Econometrics at the VU, wrote last year that the present older generation has provided a lot of material capital, but has invested heavily on environmental capital. He also stressed that an investment in environmental capital would put a brake on material prosperity growth. According to Den Butter, generation-conscious policies mean that when choosing between more economic growth or less global warming, the latter must be chosen. Against this background, I ask the Minister if she is in favour of generational policy and, if so, what that means for Invest International. How should this weigh up the various components of broad prosperity in the selection of projects, after all, that is a political choice within the framework conditions? Can Invest International support projects that are expected to contribute to material prosperity, but not to the environment and health, or which even harm the environment and health, and thus make the wide-ranging welfare balance even better than it already is? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Invest International's third contribution will be to provide solutions to global issues, such as contributing to sustainable economic development. One of the hypothetical examples in the explanatory memorandum is: the challenge facing developing countries in terms of the quantity and quality of water supply. In the example, Invest International could support a city in an Asian country to improve water supply. Isn't that a bit of mopping with the crane wide open? The water problem in the Third World is largely caused by us. The water that we see, hear and/or feel flowing in and around the house in the Netherlands is less than 2% of our total water consumption. The rest, 98%, is the water used to produce our consumption and exports. Water consumption is mainly in developing countries and is therefore a major cause of their problem, their water problem. How does the Minister view this from a moral point of view? Does it want Invest International to tackle the cause or limit only the damage caused, preferably in such a way that our business and our economy benefit? I'd like an answer from the Minister. I would also like an answer to the question of efficiency and care. Meat is the biggest water eater. The production of 1 kilo of beef requires more than 15,000 litres of water, but we use taxpayers' money to increase meat consumption. Recently, the EU allocated EUR 30 million in meat advertising and then used taxpayers' money to reduce the water problem caused by meat production. How does the Minister assess this in terms of efficiency and decency towards the taxpayer? I would also ask the Minister whether, in her view, the danger of zoonoses and pandemics is an example of a global issue. Experts from all over the world have warned about dangerous zoonoses: virologist Burk, WHO, Obama advisor Larry Summers and Maastricht professor of sustainable development Pim Martens. Nassim Taleb mentioned in his bestseller Black Swan a zoonoses pandemic not black, but a white swan: you're sure it's coming, because of globalisation among others. Nevertheless, the cabinet saw COVID-19 as a black swan, as we heard from the Minister of Finance on Princess Day 2020. In the meantime, if the cabinet sees zoonoses as a danger, I ask the Minister. Recently, we were reminded of the risk of an epidemic caused by antibiotic resistance, something to which intensive livestock farming is making a major contribution. The Minister mentions agri-food as a possible area for Invest International, but does not specify this. According to Invest-NL, the PBL and many other experts nationally and internationally, a change in the food system is needed. According to these and other experts, food production accounts for about a quarter of total greenhouse gas emissions. The Netherlands is a great culprit. We are in the top 5 of dairy exporters in the world, and meat is our second most important export product. Does the Minister recognise the need for a food transition? And what does she have in mind when it comes to Invest International and meat and dairy exports? Mr. Chairman. I now come to Invest International's right of existence, its way of working and its governance, with questions for the Minister of Finance. "All economists and also De Nederlandsche Bank, stress that the cabinet needs to invest in order to get out of the crisis. It's not a matter of holding hands on the cut." According to the minister before then only BDO in the Lower House about Invest International. As an economist, I am naturally pleased when the cabinet refers to economists to underpin policy. But does the Minister not confuse economic policy and structural policy here? The Netherlands Bank referred to the short-term: not letting down demand and lending, so that existing production capacity is used. Invest International is about the long term and increasing production capacity. I'd like to hear an explanation. Moreover, according to DNB and the Central Planning Bureau, the economy is now attracting a shortage of staff and the cabinet has to step on the brakes. I'd like to hear a response. Investments are seen as risky, so there are few choices for those seeking funding, according to the Minister for BDO in the Lower House. Of course, the fact that an investment is risky does not mean that there is no funding for it. This can only be achieved if the expected return is not proportionate to the risk, or if there are prudential constraints. Following the banking crisis, measures have been taken in Europe to slow down the taking of risks by banks and to reduce the risk that taxpayers will suffer if they fail. The Minister now presents the prudential rules as a basis for Invest International to be financed with tax money. Are we going to let the taxpayer directly take the risk that we didn't want to saddle him with indirectly through the banks? The withdrawal of ABN AMRO business bank from abroad has also been mentioned by the Minister as a basis for Invest International. But isn't the reason why the bank withdraws from the bank that foreign operations account for most of the losses of this state bank? And are they going to end up with the shareholder through Invest International, and thus the taxpayer? Another reason for the foundation mentioned in the House of Representatives is that foreign governments have difficulty finding project funding. I'd like to hear a statement from the Minister. At the beginning of this month, the FD published an article under the heading "Obligation investors take risks Africa for granted because of global run on raw materials." That article said that African debt paper is in demand. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few very specific questions. The Financial Times recently wrote that the demand for raw materials for electrical means of transport has led to a growing proportion of the cobalt needed for this purpose being manually mined by people and children in appalling conditions in Congo. Can Invest International support activities that use cobalt so mined? Invest International focuses on Dutch business. Is registration with one of our KvK's sufficient to be qualified as a Dutch company? If not, what other conditions are there? The government announced in spring 2020 that it felt the need to increase the proportion of women in the top of organisations. With the appointment of the CEO of Invest-NL and the intended CEO of Invest International, the percentage of female CEOs of state holdings has decreased from 20% to 17.6%. How's this rhyme? Mr President, I will conclude. Invest-NL has a CEO, an office, 60 staff, stationery. The external consultants cost more than 2 million. And it has a lot of capital on the shelf, because out of 1.7 billion, only 28 million has been invested. It's like the General Antwerp Feeding Products Association, the GAFPA from Willem Elsschot's Cheese. Hence my last question. Shouldn't we at least press the pause button at Invest International? I look forward to the Ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I now give the floor to Mr Beuker on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Authorisation Act for Invest International. It concerns the creation of a new institution for the implementation of export finance and foreign investment activities. The JA21 group wishes to highlight a number of elements of this law. Firstly, the intention of the fund to support the Climate Agreement, for example through the energy transition, which does not want to be a real success in our own country. With this fund we want to export this idea abroad. Apparently, the Minister thinks that achieving the goals of the Climate Agreement will be a success in the foreign world. Hence the question to the Minister: what is this optimism based on? For example, are we going to export biomass abroad and encourage its use there? The intention to link all of Invest International's activities to the Climate Agreement is therefore beginning to change for my group. The undemocratic, dogmatic and rigid approach by, for example, the climate tables and the Regional Energy Strategies in our provinces and the drama surrounding biomass scares this fund. Billions of subsidies are being paid, and they are still insufficient for stickhorses such as natural gas-free. If that is not enough to subsidise massively, project assessments will set very questionable exceptions or rules, similar to non-calculation of CO emissions from biomass plants, to make the sum or business case even more accurate. It has more to do with creative accounting and billions of squandering than realising climate goals or real making improvements. Our question to the Minister is therefore: how will it prevent this from happening with this EUR 833 million? Is ideology once again leading instead of rational and scientific approach? Secondly, my group is concerned about the organisation of the fund. There too, the shoe wrings. How do taxpayers and the Chamber keep an eye on what is happening in this heavy holding structure, in addition to the mandatory annual reporting? How will the Minister ensure that lessons learned in the Netherlands in the field of energy transition are permanently incorporated into Invest International's projects and funding? Invest-NL's first report, say the big brother, or if you like the little brother of Invest International, is not very encouraging, as we recently read. You could say that a good start is half the work, but unfortunately this does not apply to Invest-NL according to Het Financieele Dagblad. Almost 60 people employed, 7.4 million euros in staff costs and only four investments in one year. The will, loyalty and ambitions of these officials are not lacking, but even then it is apparently still difficult to see Invest-NL as an ecstatic and highly efficient success. We hear from a CEO of Invest-NL that he hopes to play an essential role in the really big, important projects, such as CO storage, the construction of heat grids and so on. I quote: we do not want to be seen as a club civil servants. While, of course, they are! They're gonna play entrepreneurship with tax money, but without a reckoning by shareholders, for example. We would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this, also in relation to the salaries paid to the directors, because they do not fall within the Top Income Standards Act, also known as the beaming standard. That's how everybody wants to play entrepreneur. In the context of the generous fees and the ineffective operation, I ask the Minister: Invest International will not be a safe financial port for former politicians who are paid two or three times a prime minister's salary? We like to hear it. The Act of Accession states that every application to Invest International must at least show a positive business case. That sounds reassuring, but you immediately wonder why the private sector doesn't do it all by itself, or just with the support of the local embassy. Or, in the case we are talking about here, support from a financing society developing countries. Money is not expensive nowadays, so why should we burden taxpayers with it? Can the Minister clarify this and reassure my group? Perhaps even more important: what if the result is negative in practice and the taxpayer needs to step in? Does the minister come in from the OS funds? I'd like a response. The last point of JA21's wringing shoe is the control, or as we call it today, governance. Why did we choose this heavy and complex structure of a holding company with the three subsidiaries e.g., and not a simple delegation to, for example, FMO with a clear mandate in which the tasks, responsibilities and powers were identified and agreed upon? That would cost much less and much less bureaucracy. A light structure that is more in line with the market, which keeps the lines between all parties clear and short, while fulfilling the onestopshop principle, lies much more in the reason of JA21. Business, as well as the foreign partner, should not be faced with heavy bureaucratic and long-term procedures and structures. We do not really see the pursuit of a one-stop shop for foreign activities in the structure of Invest International. Why did the Minister choose this unnecessarily complex and heavy design? Finally, Mr President. At Invest International, we see a focus on Africa. Wouldn't the Minister consider a shift to the Caribbean islands of our Kingdom a good idea? For example, the knife could be cut on both sides by promoting, on the one hand, greater economic independence of the islands and, on the other hand, less cost to the Dutch taxpayer. Moreover, it offers opportunities for entrepreneurs there. Or do the infamous ODA criteria possibly play a role in this? So far, we look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. Mrs Moonen of D66 has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u11	I have a number of questions for Mr Beuker. I listened to the whole speech for a moment, and I noticed a number of things. For example, Mr Beukering spoke of two or three times a prime minister's salary. I was wondering how Mr Beukker got this. Did he read the pieces properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u12	Yeah, I read that one pretty well. It is well known that more than 5 tonnes are already being paid out to individuals. It is said that we must be market-oriented, and these are salaries that bankers get. The Top Income Standards Act is not used in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u13	I would like to draw Mr Beuker's attention to the letter in which salaries are simply to be sought. That letter was sent by the Minister of Finance on 11 September 2020 with salaries. I can assure you that there is certainly no question of two or three times a prime minister's salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u14	But does Mrs Moonen now say that the Law on Standards applies top incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u15	I state that the salary is public. That is just to be found and is around €211,000. That's not two to three times a prime minister's salary. That's what intervention is for. Another question to Mr Beuker. In his speech he commented on the objectives that everything would go to climate and the environment. My question is: is Mr Beuker aware that these are precisely agricultural, water, sectors where we are very strong and where we also have a huge export position? I can hear you say a little less about that, so that's why you asked me this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u16	I am very aware of the importance of the agricultural sector and the water sector in our country. But they do not need external funding from taxpayers. This is where the market does its job, and that's more than enough. The growth rates are positive, which has just been quoted, so this is not really necessary. Taxpayers are already sufficiently taxed. We do not think it is necessary to subsidise things that are unnecessary. Everyone is in favour of a clean environment, clean air and clean water, but we can also make money from business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u17	It's not just about subsidies. When we look at the investment scheme, it is much more about lending and guaranteeing, and that is something other than subsidising.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u18	We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. Oh, there goes my mouth cap. First of all, I would like to express my thanks for answering the questions put. But that does not alter the fact that we still have a few questions to ask, partly because the answer is sometimes ambiguous in our eyes. First step back in time. I do not want to go back as far as Mr Knapen, who here recalls that the National Investment Bank was brought to the market by Mr Ruding, a minister of the present minister, in 1986. I don't want to go back that far, but this file has a very long history. It was also discussed during the debate on Invest-NL that we held in this house at the end of 2019. Initially, it was intended to bring together all public financiers, such as the Dutch Waterschapsbank, the BNG Bank, the FMO and perhaps some regional development companies. This investment bank, in close cooperation with Atradius, would be the contact point for governments, business and international counterparts. Unfortunately, that didn't work out. Hence the proposal to set up Invest-NL as a fund in an e.g. with a potential doom of EUR 2.5 billion to be provided in tranches of 500 million. At a later stage, which is now, the government would come forward with a proposal for international activities, for which it would reserve EUR 2.5 billion of 833 million. At that time, the VVD gave the initiative to create Invest-NL the advantage of reasonable doubt. We have now received the first report from the organisation, which explains the activities so far. Mr Beuker has already pointed that out. That didn't increase our appetite. Honesty requires saying that the results are still disappointing, even if you take into account that all beginnings are difficult. The main activities of the fund have been investment in funds. Companies are not getting into business, and that institution was meant for that purpose. Not so much for larger companies, because they are getting started, and they know the way internationally and nationally, but especially for SMEs. In short, it is a fund of funds of which so many already exist. A recent review by KPMG shows that the venture capital market has changed dramatically over the past two years. There would be no shortage of funding, except for a small group of young companies, which incur high costs in the start-up phase without direct turnover. In short, this group is not adequately served. With the exception of the latter group, there would be rather a displacement effect. That can never be the intention of government initiatives. According to the study, the government should focus more on tax facilitation in an mature market. Please have a reflection and further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u21	I am very pleased to hear this, because this is exactly what our group warned about in the extensive debate on Invest-NL that we requested at that time. This is exactly what we predicted. A lot of overhead will be created. We discussed the track record of the CEO, Wouter Bos, in detail. I am pleased that Mr Van Ballekom and the VVD Group have a moving insight and have seen that we were right about this. Unfortunately, it has turned out even more disastrous than we thought at the time. I am pleased that Mr Van Ballekom is now aware of this. I hope that will persuade him to think again before the VVD Group agrees with this déjà vu of Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u22	Thank you for your question. Mr Van Ballekom continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u23	This is not a question, Mr President. I know that if we had listened to Mr Otten at the beginning of his term in the First Chamber, the Netherlands would have been an even more prosperous country than without his contribution. But okay, moving insight. I'll keep it in mind. Now to Invest International. I've had history now. The government has chosen to set up a separate organisation, in particular because there would be little synergy between national and international activities, and because, if international activities were to be transferred to the FMO, this organisation would lose focus and complex governance issues would arise. This is apparent from the answer given to the questions raised earlier. Personal experience shows that there may be doubts about the lack of synergy between national and international projects. Project funding does not differ dramatically. Projects should be assessed for their financial and economic feasibility, wherever they take place, within or outside the Netherlands. In fact, experiences in the Netherlands can be useful for projects elsewhere, and vice versa. The wheel only needs to be invented once. Only the road surface sometimes differs from quality, but this is already the case in Belgium. In addition, the necessary elements related to project funding, such as risk analysis and compliance issues, can be successfully managed, not to mention personnel and IT issues. Another solution could be to use the FMO. However, the government states that the FMO would lose focus in the event of a possible broadening of tasks. This claim is not sufficiently substantiated in the VVD's view. The FMO focuses mainly on improving investment infrastructure in third, less developed countries. Invest International should focus on the Dutch companies that would like to invest in these countries. I can't imagine a more ideal synergy. A body that understands both project financing and the investment climate in the country where investment needs to be realised and the climate improved. Perfect synergy, I would say, but apparently the Minister does not agree. I would like to explain this further. Moreover, since the FMO's business portfolio is transferred to Invest International, it is indicated that the FMO is already active in this area. The question is whether the FMO itself indicated to get rid of this portfolio. I would find that, if so, a particularly unwise request. If an amended mandate would be necessary, this would be easier to organise than setting up a new organisation with three independent units in e.g. form: one for the investment function, one for the development function and one for the control function. Even the governance issues addressed by the Council of State do not seem much more complicated in the light of the fact that Invest International has to work out cooperation agreements with many organisations. In fact, they just seem simpler. I would like to mention three additional benefits of hosting international activities for the Dutch business community at FMO. It gives the organization a new impetus, a new dynamic. I think, for the sake of fairness, that the organisation needs it. FMO is a banking institution. That has its advantages, also in relation to others in the market. This gives a certain leverage and the same language, making cooperation easier. And the commercial banks remain involved via FMO. They know the business community, and also the Dutch business community. Through FMO they may be able to serve customers better. Invest International would be responsible for the disposal of EUR 833 million and EUR 1.5 billion in schemes. As far as I know, no direct connection is made by the government. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong. At first glance, it seems rather generous to me to link EUR 800 million in investment to EUR 1.5 billion in grants. The 1.5 billion in regulations is the total amount, I presume. Achieving an investment impulse of 800 million is in any case multiannual. However, if so much subsidy is needed to lift a project off the ground, there is not only something wrong with the economic and financial feasibility of that project. Even more annoying for a public institution than the question of market distortion is emerging. For a grant should not be different from making available as small a amount as possible, often for technical and feasibility studies in order to achieve the project in the event of obvious market failures. Could the Minister elaborate on this linking of tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u24	Mr. Van Ballekom talks about the commercial banks being close to FMO. The commercial banks remain so involved. He sees that as an advantage, because the commercial banks know the way. But then they won't need the whole Invest International charade, will they? They don't need FMO if they just know their own way. A big bank like ING already invests in Africa, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u25	Yes, but there are few commercial institutions or international financial institutions that are 100% part of a single project. That is all a matter of risk-sharing. Usually there's a financial consortium. A financial consortium becomes more powerful when, for example, FMO, EBRD or the World Bank participates in such a project. Then the commercial sector is more inclined to step in as well. That's an advantage. However, it is of course never intended that a public bank should be placed under the price of a commercial bank with public funds. That's gotta be supplemental. Hence my question to the Minister: to what extent is the 1.5 billion related to the 800 million? If you need a lot of subsidies, there's just something wrong with the project.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u26	I'm fine with that last sentence. That is a very good point: if there are so many grants, there is simply something wrong with the project. Then you have to ask yourself if you want to do that. You are very eager to answer my question. I appreciate that. The point remains: if a company enters ING because it wants a loan and ING sees bread in it, it simply provides that loan. Well, then it's interesting, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u27	Well, then you haven't quite understood me. I have said that such institutions are important in the event of obvious market failures. In the event of obvious market failures, ING will not quickly enter such a company, or finance such a project. They only do that if they can take part of the risk... I don't mean "turn over," because that's a bit of a negative word. But if they can share the risk with an institution like FMO, the World Bank, IFC or whatever have you. Of course, I do not always want to mention the EBRD, you understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u28	Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u29	You mention the case of Invest International, and the example of market failure, where it is easier to find a partner to share the pain. But now, in fact, it is the case that the taxpayer is the guarantor. That's actually the collateral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u30	Yes. That is why I would suggest to the Minister that we consider the matter. FMO is not financed by taxpayers' money. FMO finances itself on the capital market. That's a whole other thing, isn't it? This is also better in line with the way other IFIs operate, which is also in line with institutions such as KfW. So in that sense, I asked the Minister that question. I'll wait for the answer. When will that be? In July?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u31	In the first term of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u32	But I don't think it's gonna be completed today. I would like to ask another supplementary question. But I see that Mrs Faber first has a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u33	Mrs. Faber. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u34	Mr President, thank you very much for the coulance. Invest International will also work on FMO. So there is certainly not only commercial money or private money around the corner, but also ordinary public money. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u35	Yes, that is why I asked the Minister that question, because I have some reservations about that. But I'm sure she can take it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u36	I have a feeling you're in agreement. Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u37	In addition, I would like to ask one more question. In view of the shareholder structure of the e.g., private companies have indirect control over the use of the grant money, if this is transferred. After all, FMO is a 49% shareholder of Invest International. And, last but not least, that the investor and the grantor house under one roof, I find a questionable construction, from the point of view of conflict of interest and potential conflicts of interest. It's tying the cat to the bacon, I think. This can lead to unpleasant consequences that are difficult to justify. Here too, despite the separate arrangements in e.g. form, I would like a reaction from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u38	It is an interesting speech by Mr Van Ballekom, but I am still trying to taste the portrait of his contribution and the meaning of his questions. Do I understand Mr Van Ballekom correctly that he is actually asking the Minister: would it not have been a better alternative not to create a new vehicle, namely Invest International, but to expand the existing FMO, by giving the FMO a bigger or different mandate? Is that the question Mr van Ballekom is asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u39	Mr President, I will serve my colleague directly if I may continue my exposé. I have just come to the point where I outline what I might find a better solution. And then you have an answer to your question right away. Mr. Chairman. After so many reservations, you will ask yourself: how else should it be arranged? Let me give you a sketch, Mr. van Apeldoorn, but also Mr. Minister and Madam Secretary. Wouldn't it be logical for RVO, the National Entrepreneurship Agency of the Netherlands, to be further developed into the contact point of Dutch business? The department which with knowledge refers to the body where a company can focus best: Invest-NL for a Dutch investment, FMO for a project abroad, Atradius when there are insurance aspects. The Rijksdienst can also refer the company to international financial institutions and funds. The National Authority can also implement regulations under the responsibility of the Minister, which has also solved the governance problem. And the service can further develop its knowledge of things, so that it is also clear which international arrangements could make the project work smoothly. An additional advantage is that RVO can also establish the link with the extensive network of Dutch representations abroad. In this set-up, Invest-NL can concentrate entirely on the Dutch market, which is apparently an underlying idea, and FMO, with or without a slightly modified mandate, on the market in third countries. In this scheme, Parliament also continues to exercise control over the use of subsidies, directly or indirectly, through budget law. I think that is an advantage, but perhaps the government is of a different opinion. I'd like to have a reflection on this. Another option would be to combine NL-Invest and NL-International, as was initially intended. I think Mr Bos could use some extra customers in that respect. As I outlined earlier: project financing abroad or project financing in the Netherlands does not differ so much. Are you adequately served, Mr. Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u40	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, there's a question for you from Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u41	I thought I'd wait until the end of his speech. But again, he asks all sorts of interesting questions to both ministers. He also proposes alternatives and asks: could they not be good alternatives? But those alternatives are not ahead of us now. Mr Van Ballekom then says: perhaps the ministers see this differently. I have to wait for the answer, which will take place on another date, but I dare to predict that the ministers will see it differently and that they will defend the legislative proposal before us. I wonder how Mr Ballekom weighs that. Is he actually saying he'd rather have seen another bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u42	I've outlined an alternative. And as Mr Otten has already pointed out, the VVD Group always benefits from moving insight. It may well be that the ministers can change my group's mind. But I have given an outline of an organisation that, in my view, brings less governance issues and can be more efficient than in the proposal that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u43	Then I would like to look forward to the continuation of this debate and the possible second term of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u44	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u45	That's what we're all looking forward to. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to return to an earlier point made by Mr Van Ballekom, or actually the lessons he was trying to draw from Invest-NL. With regard to the alternatives proposed by Mr Van Ballekom, I find that interesting. What I did not hear very well in Mr Van Ballekom's speech is that, at least so far, Invest-NL has not yet been such a great success. Doesn't that also have to do with the fact that Invest-NL has to operate on the one hand in addition to the market and, therefore, has to pick up what the market doesn't have to do. I'll come back to that later in my own speech and, on the other hand, is looking for a market-based return? Isn't that the same scheme that would apply to Invest International? How does Mr Van Ballekom, or the VVD Group look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u46	I think you should make a normal return, especially on public institutions. Because if you don't make a normal return and get into the market a lot cheaper, you're gonna push it and as a public institution, you're never gonna push the private sector. I can therefore very well imagine that you are using market-based prices, but taking a little more risk in order to get the private sector out of line. Why it's a little disappointing so far, I wouldn't know. It may of course be that we have hung so many bells and whistles on what Mr Bos can and cannot do, that it is also difficult for him to operate in a market. But we can discuss later on whether we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u47	I hear extremely clear ideas from Mr Van Ballekom about an alternative structure. You compared the network with EBRD, KfW, EIB, etc., which operate independently in the capital market. I think FMO is doing the same thing. My question to Mr Van Ballekom is whether, from that point of view, it is not much more transparent and practical to do that through existing parties operating in the capital market, then the market can also adequately price it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u48	I already told you. An additional advantage is that when you do it via FMO, you have leverage on the capital market. You don't have that with a trust. That question has already been answered implicitly. That has nothing to do with moving insight, but simply listening to an argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u49	Mrs Moonen from the CDA, and especially from D66, has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u50	I am listening with interest to Mr Van Ballekom's speech. I wondered whether Mr Van Ballekom was aware of the fact that this cabinet, the government, has already looked at a number of the alternatives he mentioned. For example, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in the Cabinet looked at the option of placing the international branch at Invest-NL. Are you aware of that? Do you also know the conclusions they found at the time, for example what that would mean for governance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u51	I'm aware of that, yes. As I said, this dossier has a very long history. At the time, I was in another position when it was said: we are going to combine everything. Then I predicted that there would eventually be one organization and nothing would be combined. That's what Mr Kamp said. But I wasn't right, because the final result is that not one, but two organisations are joining. I find that an annoying fragmentation with a lot of governance problems. Invest-NL and Invest International could easily be housed in one organisation from a project funding perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u52	I call it because those options scored very low on governance. They would lead to complex governance. As the overlap between national and international investments is low, it would lead to little synergy. Precisely these options led to the government saying in 2018: let us set up Invest-NL separately from Invest International.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u53	I've cut this ax before. As I have already said, project funding does not differ so much wherever the project is. In the form of a joke, I said that only the road surface differs, but not the project itself. It is even the case that people who spend years doing project funding in the Netherlands and who later do so in Russia or in Sub-Saharan Africa can take the experience they have gained here. It's a perfect synergy. And that's not the case right now. If you have both organizations separate, you not only have a huge overhead, but also not the advantage that you can exchange experience between one and the other. I don't think there's any synergy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u54	I will talk about this later in my own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u55	That's very nice, ma'am. I'll listen with interest. Mr President, do not be afraid. I've seen time just go through. I am not quite at the end yet, but I come up with the sketch I have just read almost at the end of my speech. Either we have to organise FMO and RVO in a different way, or we have to merge with NL-Invest. I have not yet done so specifically on the argument that there should be one body for the benefit of Dutch industry in order to be able to compete with state-owned enterprises. In less diplomatic words, that means, if we are not careful, that China is taking over Africa. That is a completely different discussion, with a wide range of aspects and a lot of personal experiences, I can assure you. I am not going to go into it now, because I think that is taking place far too far in this debate. But one thing is certain: a fund of the size of Invest International will not make the difference in this respect. A Dutch fund will also have to deal with national and European legislation, including in the field of state aid. Those regulations are far more stringent than Chinese customs and customs, to put it euphemistically. You can't compete on that. Then you can only compete on quality and not on subsidies. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group looks forward to answering the questions and reflecting on the suggestions made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Van Ballekom. I would like to give the floor to Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party. Oh, Mrs. Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u57	Finally, I have one question for Mr Van Ballekom. I thought the VVD always stands for business. I was wondering how you look at all those letters we receive from the FME, from the Dutch SMEs and from the Association of Waterbuilders, who ask the government to come up with this Invest International as soon as possible, because it is business for them. How do you view such calls?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u58	My phone is not for nothing on the charger that I borrowed from Mr Otten, because I think I've had ten phone calls a day. But I have not yet developed any additional arguments, other than what I have said. Yeah, we have to compete with China. How I feel about that, I just told you. This is going to be difficult, because fortunately our regulations are more stringent than they are across the street. When you give FMO a different mandate, a more business-oriented mandate, and that combines with the knowledge FMO has of the investment climate in the countries they invest in, I think you have a perfect point of contact for the companies looking for an investment abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u60	Do I have to stand still in case anyone signs up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u61	Well, then it's gonna be hard to clean, so I'm gonna ask you to get out of here. I shall now give the floor to Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party. In the meantime, I apologize. I've set the wrong trend today. I myself spoke about the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I even welcomed him. In my footsteps, other MPs have also mentioned that minister. He also signed the bill, but that minister no longer exists. We now have the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whom I apologize for this misapprehension. Mr Crone has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u62	Yes, Mr. Chairman. What an honor that we have here tonight not only the two vice prime ministers, but also the two list drivers. Of course, they're not in that role here, but fortunately, nobody outside this house ever pays attention to what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u63	We don't have any list-toppers here. We have two ministers, not list-toppers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u64	That's what I'm saying. They're not here in that role, but they're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u65	No, they're not here either. I don't see any list pullers. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u66	It's them, but not in that role. I said that literally, Mr. President, but you're interrupting faster than the President has allowed you to. But I am very pleased with it, because fortunately people outside this Chamber, including journalists, are never watching what we are doing here, otherwise they would think that we are delaying formation with an important debate, and that is certainly not the case. You did not mention it, Mr President, but I also speak on behalf of GroenLinks. A journalist thought that was a provocation, but of course it's not. I wouldn't want to. Mr. Hoekstra is a very efficient person, so we could either keep the same story twice, but he's getting two for the price of one now. That's only good. I am sure Mrs Kaag will be fine with it too, because democratically as she is, we can decide for ourselves who we speak for. So I thought that would be great. The CDA is also a merger of three parties, so that is all very efficient. I feel very free to speak like that. All madness on a stick, Mrs Farah Karimi just can't. He knew two months ago that she would now be an election observer in Armenia. There is therefore no political reason behind the fact that I am speaking on their behalf. She is very sorry, of course, given her personal involvement in her previous position in the files we are discussing tonight. Mr. Chairman. In substance, we have some hesitations about whether we should not make the creation of a new institute, alongside the many others, Invest International, even more complicated for companies where they should be justified if they want to do something abroad. Isn't one institution, a big merger, better? That question has just been discussed in detail. It is quite complicated when, with the help of the government abroad, you have to be at a different point of contact. However, there is a logic behind this, because the FMO has a very different role, namely to support economic development and business in developing countries, while the others are focused on strengthening Dutch investment and Dutch growth capacity, including abroad. That's a crucial difference. For years VNO has wanted it to coincide, that we only do things abroad in the interests of Dutch companies. Mr Van Ballekom neglected that, but therefore there is a logical difference between FMO on the one hand, that there is not to help Dutch companies, but local companies, and the more Dutch companies on the other. That there is a logic to keep it separate, we can therefore very well endorse it. But if the primary interest of Dutch companies is on that side, it is also complicated that there are many different options for this: equity loans, export credit insurance at Atradius. It is always about contributions that companies can ask for. Invest-NL can also participate if Dutch companies invest. Then there are a lot of counters. From the Dutch companies' point of view, it could therefore be one institution. I do have two fundamental questions about this. So there may be contradictions. I would like to ask the Ministers what happens in the next case. For example, FMO supports a private local company in Tanzania and helps to improve, for example, dairy and cheese production there. This is, of course, conceivable in the interests of this local company, the national interest in Tanzania. But at the same time, Invest International, perhaps even with support from Invest-NL and Atradius, and it could be Friesland Campina who will then promote the entrepreneurial interest from the Netherlands. How is a decision going to be made, then, in the different organisations? Because they can bother each other. They can compete with each other, which means they can't make it. Now is a fundamental question: who decides? Will there be consultation between the institutions? Is there going to be a political balance, to whatever level, in politics and in ministers? Who's gonna decide? Of course, there are countless examples of points on which the Netherlands is strong. Mrs Faber mentioned a few. We are of course strong in vegetable cultivation, in industrial production, sometimes in fashion, and in energy projects. So what's the big deal? I think it is clear that the answer will be for the PvdA and GroenLinks: the Sustainable Development Goals and the ESG goals will of course be decisive. So what are we gonna do? Sometimes you have to say to the Dutch companies: no, now the local aspect comes first. Those questions are, of course, very real. We all know that it's not just one-two-three clear what importance you support. These examples have just been mentioned, among others by Mrs Prast. That is a fundamental question. The second point is that it becomes fundamentally very complicated when a conglomerate of institutions is created. Questions have already been asked about this in the written round, including by Van Ballekom. If you have different institutions, then of course they will all defend their own interests. That's how institutions work. They all have their own bias. The FMO will emphasize this, Atradius that, and so on. You're already building up the contradictions in your organization. When will they be on the table? Does that happen at project staff level, then at their service heads' and then at their directors'? Is politics going to be discussed again? For our group, you will have to give a clear answer. This was also an important point for us in the House of Representatives. That's what I'll be back for later. On this point, you have made promises, which we want to hear again here, gold-plated. It is logical that each of the different institutions should turn its argument a little bit in its own direction. Every organization has such a bias. The discussion has not yet been resolved in this respect. I await the answer in second term, but I do not think that we are ultimately in favour of merging into one institution, because of the different interests of the FMO versus those of the rest. However, there will be no motion from Van Ballekom. I've challenged him yet, but he won't bite, so there won't be a motion that way. It's probably going to go on the way the ministers want it. The next important point is the following. The ministers see these contradictions, but how are they going to solve them? A great deal of duplication is going to be done, because all three organisations, up to Atradius and others, will all want to do their own country analysis. Is this country reliable? What kind of financial system is there? Is governance in that country okay? Perhaps this includes all kinds of aspects of the environment, the fight against corruption and market surveillance. The cabinet will therefore want to have cooperation between these institutions. That is what the cabinet is doing: there will be partnerships. But I have counted so many partnerships that it will not be a shelf full of partnerships or agreements, but a closet full of cooperation agreements. How's that gonna work? Are we going to establish culture in cooperation agreements? We all know that's not how it works. Mr. Chairman. Then the choice is again to go to one large group, with shared services for this type of joint activity, but with independent divisions, such as the FMO and Invest International. Well, then you've got the independence within a corporate model. That could be a model the cabinet may have been thinking about. Then why the complex cooperation agreements? We are therefore talking about the synergy that Mrs Moonen has just spoken about. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the important question of where companies can knock. The cabinet is of course completely positive: a onestop shop, everyone joins the RVO and is then referred. I don't know if that's gonna work. So please give us an explanation of how that will work, because we would prefer to know at the front what that will be like, rather than that entrepreneurs report again in one or two years: we have been sent back from the cabinet to the wall. This too is a reason to clarify that Babylonian structure. Mr. Chairman. I have just said something about the content and conflicting interests that may be in projects: Dutch interests, the interests of national companies, versus those of local development. The cabinet has made important commitments and the amendment, which was also from our political groups, has been accepted. The Sustainable Development Goals must be the starting point. That's not self-evident. Mrs Prast also mentioned broad prosperity. That was not the case in the original proposals. It could also have supported all of these investments, which would have helped us to reduce climate change. That is not possible now, because now it really has to fit in with the objectives and the SDGs. The cabinet was far too non-committal. So you could have supported the old economy and even so that the new economy in those countries would no longer have a chance. However, I would like to hear it: sustainability, inclusive investment. I would like to hear the strong support of both leaders that that is the starting point. You can't nail it all the way up. We get that. It may happen that there is investment in fossil development, but that must be real because there is no more sustainable solution. Then it could be better fossil, for example. Replacing coal with gas is then a good intermediate solution. We, too, are not dogmatic, but want to hear that this is going to be a very sharp consideration. In fact, the no-unless principle should apply here, but I can almost quote the court ruling on the Shell case. It is therefore sustainable, sustainable, sustainable and inclusive, and so it must be. Finally, Mr President. Of course, the organization has been running for a while. They started six months ago without the approval of the First Chamber. They would already develop a strategy, make way for start-ups and SMEs, but also monitor how things could go. And they could possibly send the strategy to the Chamber as well. I would like to ask you specifically: is this strategy already on paper and available to the Chamber? Of course, they've been doing something for six months, I suppose. There are social return requirements. We have, of course, also discussed this with the Minister for Finance about Invest-NL. They are not market-based requirements, but they are societal efficiency requirements. How has that been filled out by now? Both the SDGs and the efficiency requirements would still be translated into KPIs. Can the cabinet tell us which KPIs have been developed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u67	I would like to return to Mr Crone's previous point. He was right to distinguish between FMO and Invest International. He said: FMO is aimed at investing in developing countries and local companies there in the context of the development of those countries, while Invest International is concerned with stimulating foreign activities of Dutch companies in, for example, those same developing countries. The CDA Group, through Mr Knapen, stressed the aim of Invest International. That would be very important. These foreign activities should be encouraged in the context of a level playing field, etc. I wonder to what extent the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks support that. I did not quite get that out of Mr Crone's speech. Is this an ambitious goal, and if so, on which basis do these groups come to the conclusion that it is necessary to encourage it? Is that why we need Invest International?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u68	The FMO focuses on local business development. There are good experiences with that and that's fine. In addition, there are a lot of Dutch companies that say: I would like to invest there, but the risk of return is not enough to finance it privately from own funds and from bank assets. So that then a government bank helps in that... See the examples from the other countries of the world, up to and including America. Each country has this kind of funding. So that's what's going on is sooner than later. This helps companies, whether it's FrieslandCampina or start-ups, who do a huge roll-out of solar energy projects in developing countries. Those are Dutch companies. It is in the interests of developing countries, but they are Dutch companies. That they get export credit insurance for that or investments or loans, equity, I find perfectly logical in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u69	My question was why the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks now feel that this is necessary. Mrs. Prast referred to it as well. The Netherlands is very competitive internationally. Our export position is envyed by many countries. So on the basis of which the groups of GroenLinks and the PvdA say: is it okay if so many million capital goes there to further stimulate that and improve our international competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u70	I would also like to borrow Mrs Prast's analysis that almost all of our investments do not meet the highest sustainability targets. They are sometimes even counterproductive when it comes to the broad concept of prosperity. Those Dutch companies that want to invest abroad should be given support, because of course they are not easily financed by the banks either. But I'd be surprised if the SP thinks it's either from the market or it's not good. There are really, also at Invest-NL, also with the regional development funds that we have long been in the Netherlands, always investments that are socially desirable, but which have too long depreciation periods or otherwise are too risky to finance 100% private. It's a bit of a classic economy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u71	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u72	Finally, Mr President. In Mr Crone's analysis, however, I can tell that this is ultimately about corporate social responsibility, about the social interest and about the social purpose. That is actually the second objective of Invest International, the resolution of the so-called 'So-called 'So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So-So. That's supposed to be leading. The SDGs, Mr Crone has just said. I see a potential tension there. On the one hand, you want to improve the earning capacity of Dutch business and it is a market-based return, and on the other hand you want to solve global issues and stimulate sustainable developments. If it comes to a collision with a concrete investment decision, do the groups of GroenLinks and PvdA always say that they should lead the SDGs? Is that what I can get out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u73	In my view, the House of Representatives has even unanimously accepted the amendment that all investments are assessed against the SDG objectives. That is an important gain, because it was not in the original legislative proposals. So old-economic investment must no longer be supported by this and the answer has been given, because investment projects can only be brought to Invest International if one can demonstrate as an investor that it helps with sustainable development, inclusive development. I'm from Leeuwarden, as you know. That's where Wetsus is, a center of numerous companies that do water purification technology. I mentioned solar energy. These are all projects that are often rolled out in developing countries from well-intentioned Western start-ups or other companies. They can get development aid............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ People often pay back those solar panels themselves. People in areas where there is no national grid or even no local grid are often unable to afford such a solar system and through this type of investment they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u74	Thank you. Solar system. Then Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a question for Mr Crone. We know that FMO is currently concentrating on improving the investment climate in third countries and does not so much serve Dutch business, although it has a portfolio of around 100 million in investments that benefit Dutch business. Does Mr Crone agree with me that if you broaden the mandate of FMO as an international organisation, FMO can serve both the Dutch business community and continue to work to improve the investment climate abroad? In my view, that was a perfect synergy. Then such a company also knows what kind of market it will step into before the project is further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u76	No. We think it is very sensible that FMO should focus, so to speak, 100% on the development opportunities of local businesses. From time to time the Dutch business community can help with this. What you're doing VNO has been doing for years now is really turning back: development aid must always be good for Dutch business. This is partly a political choice, but investment decisions are also influenced by whether you are a Dutch official or banker and whether you support a Dutch company. Then you'll be sitting there different than when you think from the country in development. But I am very curious to know what the answer will be from both rulers. They will of course speak with one voice, but at this point I am very curious what they are going to say. I think that everyone who has grown up in the development economy knows that this has not just been restored by itself. You present it as a win-win situation, but in practice it is not. Then you really have to choose whether you support a local dairy company or that you stimulate that trading company from the Netherlands that comes there with the cans of milk from Leeuwarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u77	Thank you. Then I suggest we continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u78	Sometimes it's happy together, but not always.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u79	If you don't change the mandate, it won't go together. That's my plea. I think you can put it under one roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u80	It is not a question of mandate. Mandate is top-down thought. I think from investment projects and they are not always one-on-one and good for Dutch entrepreneurs and for development goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u82	I'd like to finish, Mr. Chairman. I was asking whether KPIs were already developed during that six months so that we can see a little bit of what performance indicators the different institutes have and whether we can actually check afterwards whether things are going the way they are supposed to be. Once again, on balance, we expect... I must advise two groups. Maybe we'll come up with the same point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u83	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Moonen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said about the history of the establishment of Invest International. So I'll cut my contribution a little bit. Interestingly, in 2017 the Ministry of Finance came to the conclusion that there is no shortage of capital and funding in the Netherlands, but to an institution that can board early, with the right financial knowledge and the right resources. This research has shown that there is a need from the market for risk financing and for strengthening project development capacity. The Dutch business community is well involved from the outset and also enthusiastic about the proposal to set up such an institution. In the Netherlands, there is still a lack of such a national promotional institution, a public bank for projects, while other European countries that do have and are good at it. Mr Knapen also spoke about this in his speech. He was talking about Germany, France, the UK. Such a bank has already been set up in those countries, and they take a lot of business out of it. In 2018, the current cabinet concludes, given the difference in focus, to separate the national and international parts. So it has actually been a conscious choice of this cabinet to do so. Mr. Chairman. It is important that now, after corona, we move forward with our economy and with economies elsewhere in the world. Because the corona crisis has hit companies hard in many parts of the Netherlands, but also in the world. That also leads to more inequality. Now the Netherlands is a strong trading country. Our exports account for 34% of Dutch gross domestic product. And we're generating 2.4 million jobs with that. For the Dutch business community, therefore, there are mainly opportunities. These opportunities lie also because we in the Netherlands are very strong in agriculture, horticulture, water engineering, energy and in all kinds of technologies. Invest International wants to develop and finance projects in which, on the one hand, the opportunities for Dutch business and, on the other hand, social significance come together. That's the mission. I would like to go into a little more detail about Dutch business. This is about start-ups, but it can also be about small and medium-sized enterprises and about large businesses. It is important that Invest International contributes to solving market failures. So these are projects with a slightly higher risk or longer maturity, where Dutch banks are increasingly withdrawing from them. Also, banks are not always financing the whole amount, or in particular they are leaving the high-risk part. Smaller financing is also often difficult to obtain in the Netherlands. SMEs in particular are affected by this. Invest International can provide a solution for this group and help it join the international market. D66 considers it important that SMEs should be reached. The requirement of additionality is laid down in Article 9 of the Act. We attach great importance to this, because this is also a determining factor in defining the area in which Invest International may operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u85	I hear Mrs Moonen say: Invest International is going to help small SMEs with small financing. What does she call "little"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u86	Transactions of less than 50 million. It could even be several millions, and it could also be hundreds of thousands of euros. Such amounts are often hard to finance for SMEs. We are therefore talking about the lower amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u87	I don't really call $50 million a small amount. But how realistic does Mrs Moonen think it is that you are going to use such a device as Invest International to finance a few tons in some African developing country? That seems rather utopian to me. Those people are, of course, going to focus on the bigger transactions. After all, they have to incur the same costs for smaller transactions. This is also a major problem in the financing of Dutch SMEs. Those banks prefer deals where hundreds of millions are involved, because that is just as much work. So how realistic is that, I ask Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u88	The nice thing is that Mr Otten himself actually gives the answer to his own question. It is precisely banks that would like to do these large transactions of 100 million or more, exactly as Mr Otten says, when there is a great need for smaller transactions among SMEs. Let me give you an example. I always like examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u89	A brief example, Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u90	Let me give you a brief example. The Netherlands is very strong in the plant seed industry. Think of seeds for wheat, barley and rye. In it we belong to the top of the world. Now 50% of the harvest in Africa fails because they do not have good seeds there. There are large companies active in this area in the Netherlands, but you do have start-ups and smaller companies that use this technology to develop seeds that are better suited to the drought. Such companies, SMEs in seed development, can use Invest International. They do not immediately need 50 million or more, but often smaller amounts to start investing in often risky countries. Countries where this problem arises are, for example, Mali and Niger. These are quite risky countries to invest in if you are a start-up entrepreneur or an SME's employing 20 to 30 people. And that's exactly what Invest International is focusing on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u91	I agree with Mrs Moonen that the Netherlands has a very good position in the seed processing industry and so on, but it is precisely for this reason that you would think that these private initiatives will come off the ground. So I don't see the added value as one-two-three, but I'm curious what the Minister has to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u92	You will continue your speech, Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u93	Sure, yeah. My question to the Minister is as follows. On the contrary, we consider the position of SMEs to be very important. The bill states that the Minister Invest International will evaluate after three years. We attach great importance to taking the position of SMEs into account in particular. Can the Minister undertake to do so? How did Invest International reach them? What are the effects on SMEs in the Netherlands? I would also like to comment briefly on governance. A lot has been said about that. Invest International has an investment task, a development task and a regulatory task. Honestly, the Council of State is quite critical of that. According to the Board, these different tasks lead to the need for different directions. The Council of State writes, I quote: there are responsibilities that need to be clearly distinguished from each other, because the legal form and hence the direction and accountability are quite complex. Partly for this reason, the tasks are divided into several subsidiaries. Colleagues from other groups have also drawn a great deal of attention to this. My question to both ministers is to explain to this Chamber once again why the government, even in 2018, chose this governance structure. For it has done so from the point of view that this would lead to a clear division of responsibility. I think it is right for both ministers to explain again why they believe that this structure, with these three subsidiaries, will lead to that clear division of responsibility and to a proper separation between legal tasks and other tasks, which will result in an independent assessment of grant applications. In short, can they explain the whole system again? Why will this lead to a clear division of labour? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to solving the global issues. Invest International is designed for social returns for Dutch companies, but also to contribute to solutions to global issues. I have already mentioned the example of the seed industry, but there are also many examples of clean drinking water and water availability. In the explanatory statement, we found inspirational examples, which I recognize from practice, such as waste water treatment. Waste water, which is now often discharged by companies on rivers, is then cleaned cleanly; that is again a branch of sport that is very strong in the Netherlands. I would also like to draw attention to a special SDG: gender. Colleague Samira Rafaela recently wrote a position paper about this. Can the Minister indicate how the SDG gender equality is taken into account in the work of Invest International? Can we learn from the experiences in Sweden with a foreign trade policy? The D66 Group is pleased that an agreement has been concluded, at least that is ready for signature if the bill is adopted between the State, FMO and Invest International. The agreement states that these solutions should contribute to global issues and that sustainable development objectives should be used as guidance. Finally, the Minister has indicated to the Chamber that a strict no-unless principle is applied in support of fossil projects. The question we have as a group is: can the Minister indicate how she will implement that no-unless principle in practice? This was the conclusion of my speech, and my group is very much looking forward to replying to the questions put by both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u94	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To judge a bill, you have to look at purpose and means. Is the objective worth pursuing and is the proposed means effective? Let's start with the target. Article 3 of the bill states, and I quote: "Invest International aims to provide support for foreign-oriented activities of companies and international projects contributing to the Dutch economy by improving international competitiveness and earning capacity, and for international projects providing for the solution of global issues." End of quote. A whole mouthful. So at first hearing it sounds commendable, but let us dissect it step by step. Support for companies' foreign-oriented activities. What kind of activities, which abroad and what kind of companies? It's all not specified. Foreign countries could even be another EU Member State, i.e. within the internal market with full access. Why isn't that out of the question? I'm asking the Minister. And what companies? The Minister likes to talk about SMEs and start-ups, but the grant might as well go to major internationals, as the Minister also acknowledges. Can the Minister give an estimate of how much of investment capital will go to large companies and how much will go to SMEs? In any case, it is not the really small companies that operate internationally. So the community money of the state to be established - for example, will in principle also be able to go to Shell to finance an international project. Can the Minister confirm this? I will come back to the activities to be financed. The key question is, of course, why the government should financially support companies' foreign activities with tax money at all. Does Dutch industry really need this support? The Netherlands is not known as a country that is struggling to compete on the international market, as was mentioned earlier. Our trade surplus is already much greater than it is healthy for everyone. Should we now focus on even more export activities by more companies and increase our trade surplus even further? I'd like a response from the Minister. Or is it mainly about the export of capital, let us say foreign investment for a direct investment? We're not exactly behind that. Who exactly is going to be better off if we continue to promote this? What does it mean for broad prosperity? Mr. Chairman. As we proceed with the dissection, we read that it should benefit the Dutch economy and the earning capacity. Who could be opposed to that? But my group's question is: who exactly deserves it and does it have to be this way? Are we all getting better out of this, or in particular the shareholders of the companies supported in this way? And what market failure - believe me, my group generally sees enough market failure in general - is now addressed exactly? Perhaps we can find the answer in the second objective that we read in Article 3, namely that these are also international projects that provide solutions to sustainable issues such as contributing to sustainable development. So the goal is twofold: and contribute to our competitiveness and solve global issues. It fits perfectly with the philosophy of the Minister for BuHa-OS..................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, that philosophy can still count on the scepticism of my group, and that applies here too. My group is also keenly in favour of solutions to global issues. But is this state-for example a good way to contribute to this? Could you not spend that money more effectively, if that is what it is about, for example by increasing the budget for development cooperation? Sustainable development? Then let Shell and other major polluters really pay with mandatory regulations........................................................................................................................................................................................... And there's more I can think of. In short, the goal here is certainly commendable, albeit somewhat pretentiously formulated. But is Invest International also an effective means of achieving this goal? My group is not convinced yet. Moreover, thanks to an amendment in the House of Representatives, the wording has improved. Where previously it said "including international projects providing solutions to global issues," it now says "and," suggesting equivalence. However, this wording also raises questions for my group. Some of the Community's money spent by the vehicle to be set up will mainly benefit the earning capacity and another part of those other international projects, namely the intended solution to global problems. What proportion will they stand in? From the legal text there is no distraction. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group has strong doubts about the first objective, namely to improve our competitiveness by supporting the foreign activities of private companies. And that with regard to the second objective, solving global issues, we have strong doubts about the proposed means on the basis of this bill. Invest International would be provided by the State with a capital of 833 million. Moreover, this amount is not included in the legislative text. Is this amount fixed already? The explanatory statement states that it depends on an evaluation of the 2.5 billion that the cabinet has jointly allocated to Invest-NL and Invest International. When will this evaluation take place? Can the amount be increased or reduced, depending on the outcome? What lessons can we learn from the experiences so far with Invest-NL? It has been referred to earlier this evening. In De Financieele Dagblad we recently read that only 28 million of Invest-NL's 1.7 billion available has been invested. The article in question also referred to the fact that, on the one hand, investments must be additional to the market and, on the other hand, the objective of a market-based return. This rather contradictory approach also applies to Invest International. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. And what if Invest International is going to take more risks and that return is not being achieved or even losses are being made over the longer term? Does that mean the state's gonna collapse? Of course, my group regrets that the intended CEO of Invest International, like that of his national counterpart, will earn a salary above the beaming standard. The Minister will refer to the current policy on state participations, but that does not, of course, make it socially responsible, nor according to the spirit of the Law standards top incomes. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the activities to be financed. My party has made it very clear in the House of Representatives that there should not be a penny to the fossil industry. Unfortunately, this is not excluded with Invest International. There is the so-called no-unless principle. It's the "unless" we don't like here. Why don't we completely exclude investment in the fossil industry? Why is there still room for exceptions? And what do they mean in practice if you really want to focus on sustainable development? Furthermore, as recalled, the bill Invest International contributes to solving global issues. "As much as possible," we read in the reply. But it is not clear to my group what 'as much as possible' or what that means, what activities can or cannot be financed. Apart from the point that could still be invested in the fossil industry, what about the Sustainable Development Goals in general, i.e. the SDGs? How rigorous will that be? Contrary to what Mr Crone just suggested, there is nothing about this in the legal text. It seems that this is based on the "do no harm" principle. Or does the "do good" principle also apply here? And how does this relate to the objective of increasing earning power and improving the competitiveness of Dutch industry? What if these targets collide? It could be. Then what's leading? Can the Minister guarantee that, for example, when it comes to SDG 8, economic growth and decent work, Invest International will do more than just create jobs, but will also guarantee that those jobs provide a living wage and good working conditions? These are matters that, as far as my group is concerned, should speak of itself and for which you should not need an Invest International. It is commendable that the current bill, in the Supplementary Agreement, states that Invest International will have to meet the requirements for international corporate social responsibility. However, my group is still concerned about the way in which this will be done in practice. The so-called 'imvo' policy has yet to be developed. That makes the assessment difficult. I hope that the Minister will be able to deal with this in greater detail. In this respect, we have experience with the Dutch development bank, the FMO, which has already been mentioned many times today, on which an evaluation report was published last year. One of the critical points in this evaluation is that the societal impact of the FMO, even when it comes to corporate social responsibility, is not sufficiently validated ex post. Does that model actually work and what lessons are learned from this with regard to Invest International? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a word about the involvement of the Dutch Parliament and democratic control. The General Court was critical of it and insisted, among other things, that the draft joint venture agreement and the supplementary agreement should be shared with Parliament. However, there was apparently again a shortage of stamps at the ministry, because these were initially sent only to the Lower House. Seriously, Mr. Chairman, error is human, but unfortunately this is a pattern. In the meantime, in anticipation of the apparently expected parliamentary approval, the envisaged CEO and the intended chairman of the Supervisory Board of the not yet existing Invest International have both been working for nine months. "Built-up" is called in the appointment letter. My question to the Minister is: what has been built up in nine months? Where did the work of the envisaged CEO, who has been on the payroll of the Ministry of Finance, consist of? Finally, my group also finds it difficult for Invest International to set up subsidiaries without Parliament having anything to say about them, on the basis of a perpetual power, as the Court of Auditors states. The Court of Auditors is also very critical on this point, and I quote: 'This greatly restricts the authorisation function of the States General'. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. For the sake of time, I do not even go into the complex shareholder and governance structure that has already been mentioned today, which was also very critical of the Council of State in its advice. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group still has many questions about this bill and that we are not convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this bill at this stage. However, as always, we look forward to the response of both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u96	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I now give the floor to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u97	Thank you, Mr President. My group is pleased that we can begin today to deal with the Invest International bill. It would have been very uncomfortable to keep the organization waiting for clarity from the Upper Chamber. At the organization there is the understandable drive to start now. Mr. Chairman. At first glance, Invest International seems to be Invest-NL's international sister, but this is certainly not the case with further consideration. The objectives and activities of both organisations differ in such a way that it has been decided to turn them into two separate organisations. I am not going to go into this now. As far as we are concerned, enough has been exchanged in the written preparations for this debate. I would like to conclude by saying that my group understands the choice that has been made here. Mr. Chairman. Invest International's mission is ambitious. Invest International will not only support the Dutch international trade interest, but the trade interest will also have to contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals: not a contradiction between Dutch trade interests and promoting sustainable growth, but a strengthening of both. In giving shape to this ambition, the House of Representatives has played a good role, with the appreciation of my group that the motions and amendments adopted have strengthened the mission. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister if she can say anything about Invest International's focus within the SDGs. Which targets are given the first priority? This choice will also be linked to the possibilities offered by the Dutch commercial interest. Can the Minister answer that? In order to ensure that the contribution to societal goals is not only good words, Invest International will develop KPIs to measure the contribution to Invest International's societal goals. This will also include contributions to the SDGs within the KPIs. In this context, my question to the Minister is whether she can ensure that the KPIs are formulated in such a challenging way that there is a real contribution from Invest International to the SDGs. And if the KPIs are not reached, what consequences can the shareholders have? Mr. Chairman. It is striking that the development task of Invest International is out of line with the other two tasks in terms of financial size. There is 833 million for supporting the commercial interest, nearly 1.5 billion for implementing the scheme and 9 million for developing, while this task offers many opportunities to contribute to, as it is called, "impactful projects that can make a difference." Someone called it quite ambitious, and it is. Invest International may also be a leader in the choice of projects to be developed in these development projects. I would like a response from the Minister to this financial difference. As an independent organisation, Invest International has a lot on its plate: implementing a number of regulations on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, supporting the international business community and developing and financing international projects that provide solutions to global issues. Three daughters were created under a holding company for these three different tasks. This makes the organisation clear on paper, but in practice very complicated, especially when we consider that cooperation agreements should also be concluded with different parties. It is a challenging constellation, which will require many of the drivers. I am not going to add any questions on this, because I believe that almost everyone has raised this point and asked questions about it. I agree with everything that has been said. In view of the ease of use for the Dutch entrepreneur and the one-stop shop idea, my group can understand this accumulation of tasks, but in this light my group wonders why, for example, the SIB scheme, the Starters International Business scheme, is lagging behind RVO. Why haven't all the regulations relating to international trade been transferred to Invest International? Then there is actually one window for the entrepreneur. Can the Minister undertake to consider whether these arrangements can also be transferred to Invest International in the future? Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I asked a number of questions and asked for commitments, which I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Now that the answer of the cabinet and the second term are delayed, I would like to say that my group is in favour of the creation of Invest International. The linking of international entrepreneurship to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals particularly appeals to my group. I look forward to the response of the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u99	Mr. Chairman. First of all, it is good to see that, thanks to the flight with the new government Boeing, Minister Kaag could still be here in time from Luxembourg to discuss with us the 833 million from Invest International. Our group is therefore convinced of the usefulness of flying if you want to do business quickly, but I think that is a little more sensitive with the Minister's own party. Mr. Chairman. Playing company at taxpayers' expense, that's the new craze in the Netherlands. And let us be honest: the current Dutch political system, with various parties on their last legs, lends itself to this type of practice at the expense of the taxpayer. The perfect way to throw taxpayers' money and help friends and partymates with jobs and assignments. Mr. Chairman. "If you say something very clearly, it is most likely that it will be understood." This is what the former secretary-general of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the top economist Sweer van Wijnbergen, said last Saturday in a particularly readingable interview in Het Financieele Dagblad, entitled: The Dutch government is performing dramatically. You can see I brought the article. I advise everyone to read this. Remarkable reading! There are also all kinds of funds that we are talking about here, such as Invest-NL by Wouter Bos, according to Mr Van Wijnbergen, the most expensive milking track ever, but also the Wopke-Wiebes National Growth Fund of EUR 20 billion, which was piloted through this Chamber in an hour's debate. Officials who are going to push through their own ideas and know much better than the private sector what the future has in store for us. It is a ludicrous form of twenty-first century state capitalism. Meanwhile, inflation is increasing, the energy bill is rising due to the energy transition and the disposable income of millions of Dutch people has been under strong pressure for a long time. If we see the latest figures from the CPB, it won't get any better next year either. We are therefore not surprised that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is not taking part in this debate and has the floor through the PvdA. The loot is inside, it's believed at GroenLinks. Even GroenLinks' pet horse, the CO pricing, is already included in the agreement between the State, FMO and Invest International, I saw. Mr Vendrik van GroenLinks's stick horse, which he made quite a point of during the mini-debate on the National Growth Fund. What the Dutch government must do is create the right conditions for economic growth. First of all, by improving the quality of education, which has fallen considerably in recent times. But also a more transparent and simpler tax system, where everyone knows where they stand and where work and business pays off. And also investments in an up-to-date digital infrastructure. As far as we're concerned, we could use that 833 million much better. What we also need is a more effective government, which does not cost 80 billion a year to run this country, 10% of our GNP, every year. Instead of stimulating investment in developing countries, private investment in the Netherlands is stimulated by making this fiscally attractive and not by using 833 million tax dollars for unclear investments in vague projects. Mr. Chairman. As our group became more involved in Invest International's plans, we got a déjà vu from the debate on Invest-NL at the end of 2019.It has already been recalled by several people, the fund with which Wouter Bos can spend billions of tax money more or less at his sole discretion. With the Invest-NL fund, it went exactly as our group predicted in November 2019. A huge overhead has immediately been rigged, all kinds of people have been hired and the costs are in the many millions. A few million euros of deals have been made in a year and a half. It is proof of the incompetence with which Dutch politics deals with hard-earned taxpayers' money, as if it were monopoly money with which one can play to one's heart's content. Invest-International is going to solve bottlenecks in exports and international financing. I had trouble suppressing my laughter when I read this objective. I also read that we need to put Invest International in place because other EU countries are also doing so in order to create a so-called level playing field. If you look at what Invest International is going to do, you can see that the investments are not tied to certain sectors. The agricultural sector, water, energy, infrastructure, life science and health, the manufacturing industry and the service sector can be considered. So that's about it. The geographical focus is on countries with low, middle and high incomes, so around the world. Investment is also not limited to private projects; public entities in developing countries can also serve as investment targets. The Minister even gives an example of the financing of a port project in Africa. Invest International also reduces the fragmentation in the financial markets and provides a one-stop shop for SMEs according to the explanatory memorandum, which sometimes resembles a roaring sales brochure of a start-up. Whether this is going to produce anything is completely unclear. Whether Invest International should make a return on investment remains shrouded in mists. What should be Invest International's standard return is unclear. So our question to the Minister is: what is the return target? Now all we read is that the standard yield will be set in consultation with Invest International for a multiannual period and that it will be revised periodically. But how high is that standard yield? However, pressure is now being recruited for staff. We understand that it is our intention to hire a hundred people as soon as possible and to build an organization. In this respect, the same trajectory is being followed as with Invest-NL. The starting point must always be additionality. This means that Invest International should not replace market players, the so-called crowding out, but should be additional to the market. But we are not clear on how this should be done in practice. We would like to hear an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the structure chosen for Invest International. This has already been mentioned by several speakers. Work is carried out through a holding company with several subsidiaries. It is being rigged up instantly, including a complete structural regime. In this holding holding the State participates 51% and FMO participates 49%. FMO is in turn 51% owned by the State and 49% owned by several banks, including ABN AMRO, ING, Rabo et cetera. ABN AMRO is, of course, also partly in the hands of the State itself, under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Following Mrs Faber's questions, we would like to receive a current copy of FMO's shareholder register. It is not quite clear who exactly holds that 49%. My question to the Minister is: why was this rather cumbersome construction chosen? This question was raised by the Council of State in this legislative proposal. The chosen structure seems to be a recipe for endless reconciliation and built-in conflicts of interest. We immediately saw that today: ABN AMRO, through the head of the business bank Rutger van Nouhuijs, the business bank is also a state participation, by the way, today it announced that ABN AMRO is launching a sustainable investment fund of 425 million euros for companies that want to accelerate the transition to a sustainable and inclusive society. The various shareholders of Invest International are therefore going to compete with each other. The risk that the leftover projects that no one wants will eventually end up at Invest International is therefore life-long. And in the end, these projects will end up with the taxpayer, and they will pay for it. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We have more than enough of these funds now. In the past, it has also been shown that almost all of these funds have failed miserably. The Wadden Fund became a big grabbelton for politicians. The Economic Structure Strengthening Fund became a fiasco, was examined by the General Court and was finally abolished for that reason. And, last but not least, the Netherlands has, of course, been doing much more than most other countries in the field of development aid for decades. As far as our group is concerned, this fund is not necessary. It is an ill-thought-out idea, which, as far as we are concerned, we should not go into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u100	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate until a date to be determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-22-eerstekamer-9.u101	Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Foreign Minister, the Finance Minister and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll close the meeting and wish you all at home.
