ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on housing status holders. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members as follows: four questions or comments to each other and no less than six to the directors. An interruption is a question or a brief remark, not an introduction. For these introductions, please refer to your contribution in the first or second term. I would ask you to speak through the President and keep a distance of five feet from each other. These were my household announcements. I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21. He is also the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u2	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's right. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to plan this debate for Christmas to discuss asylum policy and its consequences on the housing market in the Netherlands. We are talking about 40,000 asylum seekers who will let the Netherlands in this year. Those are CBS figures. This is on the "Wir purchase tie" year of 2015 after exactly the highest number in 25 years time. The COA bursts out of its joints, the regular azc's are full, just like the emergency shelters. Cruise ships and hotels have been cleared out to catch the trek in our country. When I called the Secretary of State to the Chamber in mid-October and asked her what this means, namely whether we are in an asylum crisis, she claimed that we are dealing with a temporary peak. A temporary peak, and on November 1st the folds would all be smoothed again. But one week later, she reported that the high asylum influx has a permanent character. Permanently. Last month the COA informed us that by the end of next year an additional 10,000 reception sites will have to be set up. "Permanent" is therefore rather weakly expressed, you might say. The Netherlands, we think, has fallen into a chronic asylum crisis at JA21. We've been standing by and looking at it for years. Mr. Chairman. There are two buttons to turn on in this spectrum: the influx and the outflux. Nothing is being done about the influx, but also the outflux, the return policy, fails. Because half of the asylum seekers who have been processed are getting out of sight. Earlier this year, the European Court of Auditors estimated that EU countries, including the Netherlands, were very badly successful in recovering rejected asylum seekers from outside Europe. The Netherlands is also afraid to use any means of exerting pressure. There is also a letter from the Secretary of State who pointed this out against the safe countries. These are the countries of origin, such as Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria. In the meantime, however, the safety workers around Ter Apel are unfortunately being harassed. Last week they felt so abandoned that the bus drivers and the train conductors have put the work behind them. We're still getting emails that the train isn't doing well at all. So we say, Secretary of State, show some balls. Balls show to put a plane full of those wheeldrivers, with those troublemakers from those safe countries and to fly back to the country of origin. And if you do, risk a diplomatic riot. 'Cause whoever doesn't dare to fight the battle will never win it. Mr. Chairman. Once here is never back. Of the 50,000 Syrians who came here, say in the "Wir purchase tie" year alone, half of them are still in welfare after five years. After five years! And after five years, they are eventually entitled to permanent status. There's an estimate of what that's gonna cost. How much does a status holder, like an asylum seeker with status including "follow migrations," as it is called with a beautiful word? That's $600,000 per asylum seeker. So we all pay the premiums, the taxes. For such a large amount of money, we can't afford houses, no ic-spots, no homes, no cops. It's all gonna cost a lot of money. We therefore call for a temporary asylum stop at JA21, with a complete review of asylum policy, in which I think we can take a good example of Denmark. Denmark, in which the phenomenon of permanent residence permits does not exist, but only applies in the temporary sphere where there is a demonstrable need for individual threats and protection. This will enable us to move towards a so-called partner countries strategy for shelter outside Dutch soil, but much more so in the countries where this can be organised. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the point of housing status holders. This year we had 25,000 status holders to give a house. "We" are the municipalities, because that is where the cabinet dumps the problem. Municipalities have to figure it out. That's code black for the housing market. We have huge waiting lists, ranging from 20 years people are waiting for a corporation home. Nevertheless, the municipalities that have tens of thousands of status holders still have to house. The pressure is increased because you have said: by 1 January, an additional 5,000 will have to be added in hotels, pre-fab houses or so on. So the first half of next year there will be another 10,000. Municipalities can't handle that, despite the drop on the glowing plate of the 800 houses that were announced yesterday. The municipalities dup their own house seekers, namely the starters, the elderly and the students. They're fishing behind the net. If they don't do it in town, they get the threat of fines or interventions from the county. In short, what does the Secretary of State say to municipalities when they say: we cannot do this? Finally, Mr President. For JA21, in addition to stopping the asylum influx, there is only one solution in the short term, and that is to abolish the mandatory mission. Don't do it; take it off the table. Municipalities and residents should no longer be the victims of the open border policy that unfortunately the successive Rutte Cabinets have allowed to happen. To that end, I shall table a motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u4	I am listening to Mr Eerdmans' speech. We now have 12,000 status holders who are entitled to a home, but they are not there. So they're in an azc. That costs about €30,000 a year. What is Mr Eerdmans' proposal? If they stay there because he doesn't want to give them a place to live; at least that's what I'm talking about. What is your party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u5	Two answers to that. The first is to limit the inflow. It's not a natural phenomenon. We could say, "These people are here." Yeah, that's right, but we can also try to stop them and limit the influx. That's not gonna happen, so that's where the problem begins. The second answer is: rightly so, the people are here now. We call for clustered shelter, central and not at the expense of the corporate homes that many people are waiting for, as I said: the starters, the elderly and so on. I ask the VVD and the cabinet to provide for this, without people being affected by it in their own congregation. In Landsmeer people have been seriously on a waiting list for a corporation home for 22 years. That's disrupting the market, and I don't think we can do that. I believe that this is the only solution to provide central housing in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u6	A bit of a weird and vague answer. I don't think JA21 is a PVV or a Forum for Democracy, so you're not going to make any weird discriminatory proposals, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u7	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u8	What's the deal? a status holder has the right to stay in the Netherlands, to live here and to integrate here. Does he have the rights of an ordinary Dutchman, to put it that way, and therefore also have the right to an ordinary home, or do you want to make a distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think this is a strange question, because I think that an ordinary home is a home that you can offer centrally or clustered, in case those people have the right to stay. I think it is unhealthy that this should be at the expense of corporate homes that are now readily available to our children. They supplant the situation, but they have an urgent declaration of urgency by the obligation imposed by this cabinet on municipalities, under penalty of a fine if they do not make that property available to status holders with priority. So you're right: these people deserve a place to live. That's right. It would be weird to send those people away because they got that residence permit. We have a programme in which we can get these people into thin air, or at least introduce a temporary asylum stop. That would give a lot of relief at the housing market. But we do propose: do it centrally, instead of letting the municipalities suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Eerdmans, of course, has a point when he says: it's breaking into the shelter now. Now there are a lot of people who have already gotten status. Of course, we want these people to be well integrated. Does Mr Eerdmans also see the advantage of scaling up quickly and making flex houses available for these people in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u11	I can also see the blockage. Then I think: let's start by closing that front door, because that will prevent the pressure on the azc's. The COA is not completely out of the question of frustration for nothing, because they can no longer place the people who are still in the process. So that's right: there's a blockage. We gotta get these people out of here. But you can also say, "Let's try closing the front door." I've been trying to convince the CDA of this since we arrived in March. Seems like the best key on the door. That's the most important answer. The second point is that of flex houses. Sorry, but I think a lot of people who start out on the labour market say: I would also like to have a prefab house by Mrs Kuik, and do my neighbor, who has been waiting for years for a step up the ladder, one as well. So I find it so easy to say: for those status holders we automatically arrange all the homes that we can afford, and the rest we let down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u12	Let's just get to this point. We want people, if they're allowed to stay here, to integrate properly. What solutions does Mr Eerdmans see for the people who are here today and who are in the shelters? Those centers are not ideal for integration, I think. What solutions does he see for them in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u13	These people are then addressed in a centrally clustered residential facility. In it, the rules of integration programmes apply. There you can work with integration and with the Dutch language. I can see that. Of course, you can release exactly the same programs as you do now in municipalities. The advantage of that is that you don't have the tribulation on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u14	May I begin by congratulating Mr Eerdmans on his political courage at the time and on his previous role in catching refugees in Rotterdam? I congratulate him for that. Mr Eerdmans is here in favour of accommodating people who are entitled to a home in the Netherlands, namely status holders, and offering them a different home from other people who are entitled to a home. I would like to ask Mr Eerdmans why he makes a distinction on the basis of origin. Why does he discriminate? These are people who are entitled to a home. Why should a person, a status holder born elsewhere, not be entitled directly to a social housing, and someone born in the Netherlands, according to Mr Eerdmans, should? Isn't that how you create some sort of apartheid in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u15	Do you know who is disadvantaged and who is discriminated against? Those are actually the ordinary people who have been waiting for years. They are overtaken by the status holder, who, as a matter of priority, is obliged by the cabinet to house municipalities. That is the real discrimination and disadvantage of people who have been waiting for years. So don't tell me the situation is the other way around. People who get a stay here, as far as we are concerned, should be slowed down. That's what I just said. They're gonna get that place. But it is completely unfair to give these people priority to a housing market that is completely hidden and in which people have been lining up in front of a house for years. Sorry, that's really the pure discrimination of people who have just as much right to it, but are waiting for it for a while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u16	The real discrimination is there. Really, Mr. Chairman. The real discrimination is there. If you want to give people who have the same right to a social housing as others, you say the net yourself is right not to give a social housing just because they were born elsewhere, then that is discrimination, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u17	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u18	You'd have a fair story. Why don't I hear about that? Why don't I hear about this minister who doesn't solve the housing shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Van Baarle...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u20	Or about the landlord's tax that ensures that there are too few homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Van Baarle...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u22	Why don't I hear you about that and keep chopping at refugees? That's unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u23	You're even turning off the microphone, Mr. Chairman. Otherwise, I would have done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u24	We have agreed to simply ask questions and make brief comments, and not to make very extensive introductions. The same applies to Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u25	It's kind of funny with Mr. Van Baarle. You would expect DENK to be praised, because we have an emergency regime and because we have an obligation to municipalities that status holders are given priority over those Dutch who sit here and do not get those homes. But no, of course Van Baarle is going to try to accuse everyone of something again. But I'm just saying, yes, a level playing field. Yes, it is. And then you should indeed say: people who have waited so long have just as much right. But they have less right! I say that to Mr Van Baarle. They simply have less right to a home, because they do not get the priority status holders and licence holders have. They are given priority; even more, 800 additional houses are dragged for that and prefab houses are pounded out of the ground for that everywhere. I'm sorry, but that's the real disadvantage of people. You really don't understand the sentiment, Mr. Van Baarle, that in our city Rotterdam, but also outside, lives of people who say: boys, I've been waiting with my son for so long for a home and I'm just getting caught up by a Syrian. That's right, I'll give you that Syrian's license, but he's gonna take that place as a priority. People don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr Van Baarle just started by complimenting Mr Eerdmans. At first I could not place that until I related it to Mr Eerdmans' input. If I'm right, he said that we should definitely take status holders in the Netherlands. Does Mr Eerdmans not think that with this moderate view he is causing an aphrodisiac effect? Actually, like the Secretary of State, he calls out to all potential status holders in the world: come to the Netherlands, because here in the Netherlands Mr.Eerdmans is now also in parliament and says that we are going to take you and give you houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u27	So you want to expel people with a residence permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u28	No, that's not the question that was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u29	But that's the consequence. You can overdo each other, and that is where Mr Markuszower never disappoints me, but it is a bit of the unrealistic PVV model that doesn't come off the ground. Several measures have been announced to slow down the influx, looking at Denmark to send back safelanders, reduce influx, all kinds of things to put pressure on countries to take people back. But if they have that residence permit here, you won't get those people across the border. You're just gonna get punished for that. That is the difference between the PVV and JA21: unrealistic versus realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u30	We will, of course, find each other when closing the front door; there is no discussion about that. But apparently we don't find each other at the temporary residence permits that have been given. As you know, temporary is not permanent and so temporarily you can send back to the country of origin or to the safe region of origin. That's not unrealistic. It seems that Mr Eerdmans is not taking that with him, but perhaps in the future there will be other plans by Mr Eerdmans in which he amends it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u31	Kind of a naive question. Of course, that's the model of the future. You took that very seriously with the words 'we have a PVV model that supports the Danish model'. But Denmark shows that you can set up a temporary permit over the permanent one, which we automatically grant after five years. We did not arrange that today, so those people who now end up in a residence from the azc because they have been granted a residence permit are here permanently over time. It's hard to cross the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u32	I'm a little stunned about what I just heard. Mr Eerdmans said that status holders have as much right to a home as the Dutch. Let me get this straight. Dutch people spend ten or fifteen years waiting for a house, in some places even twenty years. Would status holders have the same right to a home? That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u33	That was a question for Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u34	What is ridiculous is that people are now being placed behind the people who are given an urgency statement because they have fled Syria and are getting permanent status here, which, by definition, should be temporary in our eyes. They do get a status, and you can't say they don't get a place to live. However, we do not believe that these homes should be at the expense of those who have been waiting for them for years. You can make other arrangements for that, but people who have that residence permit.................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u35	As long as we have this kind of cabinet, there are going to be infinite numbers of people like this coming to the Netherlands. If we continue to say that these people are all entitled to a home, then we will keep the situation we have now. That doesn't make any sense. We have to choose our own people, our own young people. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u36	Yeah, asylum stop, temporary permits. We are saying that safe-loving people must go back, and we want to go to border controls in order to slow down the influx. You know these JA21 proposals, and they are effective. That is also possible within Europe. There is no need to always jump out of Europe. Within Schengen you can take measures, and that is what happens in Denmark to slow down the influx and to raise the thresholds and to put pressure on countries of origin. Like Mr Markuszower, you are jumping over all kinds of barriers that are there. You're gonna get whistled back, and that's too bad. We want to achieve things, but unfortunately we cannot do that with this cabinet. Maybe with a next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u37	This is quite an interesting objection, because that is precisely the problem that Mr Eerdmans does not dare to make the fundamental analysis. You say that we are stuck with the European Union and that we can do all kinds of things within the European Union, but that is not possible at all. The problem is not just asylum migration, it is also labour migration. Our housing market is also under pressure from labour migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u38	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u39	There will be 100,000 people this year, all of whom will have to live somewhere. Do you agree with me that we really need to leave the European Union? For it obliges us to pursue this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u40	Now look at Denmark: in a year's time, the number of people we have to stagnate in two weeks comes in. Yeah, I'm talking about asylum. All follow-up migration has to do with that, of course. If you're talking about the problem of integrating non-Western newcomers, you have the point right away. We say that it can be slowed down. You don't have to leave the Union for that at all. In fact, you spend 15 years leaving the Union, and then we still get the influx that we have now under the FVD in Forumland, just maybe double that. I just don't see much of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you. Mr Markuszower of the PVV and then Mrs Koekkoek of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr Eerdmans says, like all those people in Europe say, and like our cabinet says, status holders are entitled to a home in the Netherlands. I just don't understand why Mr Eerdmans can say that. We say: Dutch people are entitled to a home. Status holders have no right to a home here. They have to live in their own region. I simply do not understand why Mr Eerdmans wants to take away the homes of Dutch people, because there is, of course, displacement, because we have a housing shortage. Every home that Mr.Eerdmans, clustered or not, gives to a status holder, does not go to a Dutchman. 40,000 people in the Netherlands are homeless. There are people who wait ten years, or sometimes even seventeen years, for a home. Mr Eerdmans simply says: but status holders are entitled to a home, so let the Dutch die.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u43	No, Mr Eerdmans says: we want to get rid of the mandatory task, so that there is no more preference policy, with municipalities giving their homes to status holders. That's the story. If you do that, you can simply make the homes available to the people in the cities who are waiting for them and entitled to them. The point is that Mr Markuszower says that we must place them in their own region, but that is not possible. Those people have come here under the open door policy of Rutte cum suis. That's what it's about. Those people aren't leaving here anymore. We can find all kinds of things, the three of us, but we're not gonna change that. We can change that in the future. I'm very much in favour of that. But at this point you just have to place them and I don't want to let that go at the expense of the corporate homes that are so short of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u44	Let me return to the subject of the debate: housing of status holders. As a result of this debate in committee, including Mr Eerdmans, municipalities and corporations have rightly pointed out: go to an integrated approach to attention groups, including status holders, as well as start-ups, students and older people. Why doesn't JA21 bet on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u45	You mean what Minister Ollongren suggested with the 800 and 600 houses for various target groups? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u46	Well, no, I mean the appeal from the Association of Dutch Municipalities and from housing corporations to focus on an integrated approach to attention groups. Those are precisely the stakeholders to whom Mr Eerdmans has just made a plea. The solution proposed is at odds with the solution requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u47	I don't know what you mean by an integrated approach to attention groups. We are simply saying that this attention group, the status holders, is now getting homes that many people are waiting for. That is a point of urgency and the obligation from provinces and the Empire to city country. That's got to end, because that's what's going on. That's unrelated to the point of overcrowded azc's. Of course, we have to deal with that as well. I do not think that an integrated approach to attention groups will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u48	Let me clarify. I think Mr Kuik was just asking for it. An integrated approach is proposed for attention groups, including status holders, but also older people, young people and start-ups. It is proposed to focus on a number of things: social housing, flex housing. This way you open the housing market and make sure that attention groups get a place. That's the proposal. My question is: why is the parallel housing market now used for status holders rather than going along with the stakeholders I heard at the heart of the JA21 plea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yeah, yeah. I thought it had something to do with what the Minister is proposing, namely 800 residences for status holders and 600 for other target groups. I think that is far too much of an affair. So you turn down homes to people who've been waiting for that for years. I do not have the impression that that improves the situation. You can make a whole speech about the integration of target groups into mixed housing, and so on, but I am purely talking about the calculation. We're running out of houses right now. I think I read somewhere that 26,000 starters are looking for a home in the Netherlands and waiting for it. They're young people. We're not going to turn the tide on the housing market if we establish these numbers of people in corporate homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u50	I conclude from this that the solutions are put forward by those who are stakeholders, namely municipalities and housing corporations. We should not follow them, but instead we should deploy the parallel housing market. I really can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u51	I note that these numbers are also supported by the VNG. The pressure on municipalities to place 13,000 or 10,000 status holders is also actively supported by the VNG. That's a lobbying agency for municipalities. On the other hand, municipalities like Castricum ring the bell. They can't handle it. So about that lobby, we can set up another tree. I don't think that one-on-one is equal to the judgment of a lot of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. There is another late interruption by Mr Boulakjar, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u53	Good to hear Mr. Eerdmans has a more moderate attitude when it comes to placing status holders. That's really news to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u54	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u55	My question is as follows. Mr. Eerdmans went to Denmark this summer to learn. Compliments for that. I am curious to see how Denmark deals with the placement of status holders. If status holders are given status in Denmark, how will they be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u56	Those numbers are very small. You have to see it in such a way that it really is about hundreds, which is about larger areas. They can simply place them within municipal boundaries. I don't think that's what they call corporate housing. It is much better to eat than what we see here, with the pressure on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u57	Then I would like to thank Mr Eerdmans. I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin, I should like to congratulate Mr Boulakjar on his maiden speech in a moment's time. Mr. Chairman. For months, the majority of this Chamber has been able to stop any debate on the troublesome asylum and on the open border policy of the Netherlands. Today, at last, we will see that the future coalition parties, together with all the other dangerous left parties, will lead to more, more, more: more status holders, more foreign invaders, more asylum seekers. In theory, a debate on the Netherlands' asylum and immigration policy is useful, provided that the cowardly politicians of almost all parties here in the Chamber are prepared to recognise the disastrous facts of the Dutch immigration and asylum policy and that recognition of these facts leads to a radical change of course. Because the current policy is destroying the Netherlands completely. The facts speak for themselves. The continuous and uncontrolled influx of mostly underprivileged, combat-ready, male, western culture hating, because immigrants from Islamic countries waltz the Netherlands like a bulldozer does with buildings. For years, the PVV has been warning of the consequences of this mass invasion of fortune seekers from Islamic countries, in particular, coming at our women, on our benefits, on our care, on our prosperity and on our homes. And that while we're in a deep housing crisis. We're short on 300,000 homes. The common Dutchman now has to wait ten years and often much longer than that for a home. A status holder will receive a residence within fourteen weeks, also from Mr Eerdmans. In the Netherlands of Rutte and Kaag it is always "Dutch last." The Dutch are severely discriminated against in their own country in favour of foreigners. Instead of staying in their own region, they come home to ours. What kind of country are we living in? In it, our own people are trampled by the government and people are coddled from the outside. Since 2010, more than 120,000 homes have been given away to status holders. Those are houses where Dutch people could have lived. It is therefore high time for the PVV's legislative proposal, by my colleague Alexander Kops, to put an end to the priority rights that status holders now enjoy when they are allocated a residence. That law should put an end to the discrimination against Dutch people in the housing market. And there's a hurry, because the fugitive goes on and on. A further 14,000 status holders will have to be housed next year. And that will not be the end of it, because our borders remain wide open, causing 5 000 asylum migrants to enter our country every month. They all want a home and they will get it from the Rutte/Kaag cabinet. As two mad minas, Minister Ollongren and Secretary of State Broekers-Knol with a large bag of millions of euros wandering around the Netherlands, looking for homes. Prisons are closed, hospital beds are gone, roads are no longer built, sufficient teachers and policemen are not there. In the Netherlands, 40,000 people are homeless, but for asylum seekers, the cabinet does nothing for ordinary Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. The cost of this open border policy is unbearable. Every year, 20 billion euros. That's over 2 million euros an hour. Inflow is and remains so high that these costs can even double in the short term. So this policy is blowing up our welfare state. There will be no more money to help underprivileged Dutch people. The Netherlands already knows more than a million poor people. These people will be further trampled by Rutte and Kaag's policies. There won't be anything for them. Not enough food and no heating in winter. And why not? Because Rutte and Kaag refuse to close our borders to all those foreign invaders. Mr. Chairman. The influx of these migrants is equivalent to native demographic suicide. Dutch people become strangers in their own country. Immigration is rising again this year through the roof. Over 100,000 migrants have joined net this year, a city the size of Delft. In the three major cities, Dutch children who are now born are already in the minority. And our near future is ominous. The population of Africa will quadruple until the end of this century and grow to 4 billion people. At least one third of them, which means that more than 1 billion of them want to leave Africa, to Europe, to the Netherlands. You don't have to be a demographic genius to see that if we don't turn the tide and close our borders now, we're going to be strangers in our own city and a minority in our own country. Then a dramatic fate awaits us. Then the Netherlands, like all those retarded islamic sandbox lands, becomes hell on earth. I have to finish. The crime these intruders are carrying is huge. That is why our borders must be closed immediately. To this end, we shall table a motion in the second term. Mrs Broekers-Knol knows that motion, because it has often been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Baarle of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr Markuszower of the PVV puts people from another country away as criminals, as a criminal gang. I would like to ask Mr Markuszower why he is procrastinating such racist lies about people, dismissing everyone from another country as a criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u61	Not everyone at all, but a hell of a lot. Perhaps Mr Van Baarle van DENK could ask the Secretary of State in his term how much crime these asylum seekers are now taking with him. Last year, 4,500 criminal activities, including rape, including armed robberies. Does Mr Van Baarle sometimes wonder why bus drivers between Emmen and Ter Apel no longer want to ride their own bus? Because those asylum seekers are making their lives miserable. Has Mr Van Baarle ever been to Ter Apel? I do. Has Mr Van Baarle talked to the people who are in daily trouble and who have imposed some kind of detention on themselves? Those people no longer dare to go outside because they commit crimes against asylum seekers, commit violence against them, chop them up with knives, throw older women out of wheelchairs in wheelchairs. That's asylum-wretched.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u63	Lies. Racist lies. I have two university studies here which show that crime is no longer being committed in the vicinity of refugee centres and that people living in the vicinity of refugee centres are okay with that. It doesn't bother them. So what Mr Markuszower is doing here, based on emptiness, based on lies, is putting a group on the same footing. I would like to ask Mr Markuszower the following. Do you realize that if there are people protesting and throwing fireworks at buses with refugees, where the ME has to intervene, the PVV bears co-responsibility for that, because of these kinds of lies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u64	On the first part, those investigations. Again, I was in Ter Apel. I was also in Rosmalen, where another asylum centre is being opened. And indeed, there were two of those half-soles, GroenLinks-like types, saying "yes, great that a asylum-seekers' centre is coming here." Only 30 other people, and I think there are only 50 people living in that very small area, were hugely opposed. They told us what happened to them a few years before, when the previous asylum-seekers centre was there. Ladies who no longer dared to go out, ladies who have been sexually assaulted: all terrible things. So indeed, there is always a small minority that is very loud and is in favour of asylum-seekers' centres, but the vast majority of people living near an asylum-seekers' centre experience the misery. Those people are scared, and they're actually going through things. One more thing. The PVV asked in an approved motion to open the police station in Ter Apel. That's rejected. The government is not going to do that, according to the note we received about it. Do you know why they don't want to do it? Because exactly in those reports, the real figures are not allowed to come up. Because they know that if the police station is a three-hour drive, people aren't gonna press charges. I have spoken with people who work in an asylum centre and they say that it is simply said to the staff: do not report, do not report, because then those figures will become so unpleasant. We had a Secretary of State two years ago. That's why this Secretary of State is sitting here hiding the crime figures. One more thing, Mr. Chairman, and then I'll finish. The Netherlands should not know, hence the reports of Mr Van Baarle, what the asylum seekers do with the Netherlands. We hide it, but I'm just talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I give the floor immediately to Mr Van Baarle of DENK for his contribution. Go ahead, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u66	Life is so easy when you belong to the pseudo-fascist cult of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u67	Let's not do any of this. You know, we're just having a nice substantive debate. Let's not all start blaming each other for all the misery in the world. Just a nice substantive debate! You also do not need to use such qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u68	I see fascism as one of the threats to our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u69	You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u70	I think I can appoint that as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u71	Here we go again. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u72	I'll take it easy. Can Mr Van Baarle explain what he means by fascism and why he can stick it to any party here in the Chamber, except perhaps his own party? So we can leave it out of the equation. Could he perhaps explain what he thinks Fascism is and why it is appropriate, even in the historical context, to a party like ours? But he can also choose another party, if that's easier for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u73	Of course, many scientists have written about fascism. Fascism has a number of characteristics, including an autocratic leadership structure based on one person. Let's say the PVV. No members, no democracy, a one-man show in the form of Mr Wilders. Fascism is also based on building the fear of a stranger, the fear of people coming from another country. We have just heard Mr Markuszower talk about people who have had to leave a war zone. So generalizing! He connects people based on their origins to crime and says they don't belong here. Mr President, that is fascism at the top and I think I can say that. That's what I was chosen for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr Markuszower, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u75	Of course, Mr Van Baarle can say anything, but what characterizes fascism, for example, is violence and the glorification and propagation of its use. I do not think that our party or any party in this Chamber has at least not heard that violence is promoting. So I do not really understand why exactly that frame is put on our party, because violence is still something we say about: always through democratic means. That touches exactly the second branch why something is fascism. Fascism is antidemocratic. Fascism is antidemocratic, but our party participates in the democratic system and is a great, gross, supporter of democracy. We embrace democracy and want to strengthen our Dutch rule of law. So I think of that little sticker: that sounds good, but it's completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'll give you a chance to respond briefly, Mr. Van Baarle. Then I would like to ask you to discuss today's debate on the housing of status holders. That is the subject of today's debate. You may respond briefly and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u77	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mr Markuszower that it is true as far as the label 'fascist' is concerned. When it comes to anti-democratic, I would like to say that the PVV has called Parliament a 'fake parliament'. As far as violence is concerned, your party leader has promoted the need for people to resist. Violent can't be more violent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u78	Thank you very much. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mr. Chairman. We've just heard the gray-turned record to racist shit from the PVV. We heard Mr Eerdmans of JA21 stomping one-sidedly towards refugees again. It's the proven earning model from the right. It's the age-old recipe of scapegoat politics, tucked away with a discriminatory sauce. Problems in our society are written by the PVV, JA21, Forum and all other wrong right-wing parties on the conto of people with different origins or beliefs. That is not a normal right, but that is a discriminatory right. It's fake to blame people with different origins over and over again. Today, that happens in the housing market. We see the PVV and Eerdmans rambling on people who have had to leave their devastated lands. They blame those people for the housing shortage. It's that recurring myth. We do not hear these parties now about the 13 billion euro rental tax of the VVD and the PvdA, which means that 85,000 fewer social rentals have been built. We do not hear these parties now about the 30,000 social housing sold to investors. We do not hear these parties now about the 63 000 social housing that has been demolished. And we are not hearing these parties today about the 20,000 social housing that has been liberalised. Mr. Chairman. Nearly 200,000 social housing units have disappeared due to policy, conscious policy of the VVD, and not refugees. But instead of focusing the arrows on this policy, on this dismantling policy of the VVD, and on this minister, who is not building enough, these parties focus on the 7% of social housing that has gone to refugees in the past year. There are blows to a small group of vulnerable people, but these parties are blind to the real problems that cause the housing shortage. This far-right chatty trick must be abolished once and for all. Mr. Chairman. In order to give refugees a decent life in our country, three things must be done as soon as possible. Firstly, the erosion of the social housing market sector must stop. Does the Minister share the view that there are simply far too few social housing units being built and that far too many social housing units being built are too expensive to accommodate attention groups? What does the Minister think about the fact that private social housing is not available to the target group? What does the Minister of Aedes' emergency call say that these homes should also be used for this purpose? Two. Although it is not ideal and does not have our preference, much faster efforts should be made to realize fast-to-build flex houses. How many flex houses will be realised in the near future? That is what I am asking for in connection with the letter sent by the Minister. How are the measures going to make a concrete contribution to this? Three. There must be substantial, but also substantial, investment in more COA and IND capacity for faster procedures and decent reception. Does the Secretary of State share the view that structural undercapacity has led to the current situation? What does the Secretary of State think of the call of Refugee Work and the Red Cross that reception locations, in particular emergency shelters, do not meet the requirements? Isn't the Secretary of State ashamed of the fact that refugees have to stay in some sort of tent camps without privacy under appalling circumstances? Isn't the Secretary of State ashamed of this emergency shelter? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that emergency reception conditions are improved as quickly as possible, that emergency reception conditions disappear as quickly as possible and that regular reception takes place? Mr. Chairman. The main problem in the housing market is the erosion of the social sector. Putting the blame on people who are not originally from this country is false and vile. The cause lies in policy. That is why the landlord levy must be abolished as soon as possible and we must ensure that corporations can build much more. DENK will always stand for the priority of status holders in the housing market, because those people deserve our solidarity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. I was just looking at the small debate between the three right-wing gentlemen: on the right, on the right and even on the right. That was actually quite entertaining. Mr Eerdmans came out as a very moderate person; I cannot say otherwise. I understood from Mr Van Baarle that he also received refugees in Rotterdam. Interesting. That's how you learn. Mr. Chairman. There are major problems with asylum policy. About 12,000 status holders are looking for a home. Due to the shortages, asylum seekers sleep in tent camps and pavilions. That really has nothing to do with a sustainable shelter. The funding does not correspond at all to the real demand, not to mention the housing shortage. As a result, asylum policy is completely failing, and action has been called for so many times. In June 2016, the Van Zwol Committee wrote: ensure stable funding and sufficient buffer space for peaks. In April 2020, the broad societal review of a manoeuvrable migration chain took place. In May 2020, the survey of the IND came: ensuring a manoeuvrable migration chain. That was another signal, not to mention the opinions of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs. My question to the government is: how do you feel about it? Do you acknowledge that your own share in this crisis is considerable? This is true of the Secretary of State for Asylum, but that is of course true of the Minister for Housing, who is responsible for the housing crisis. Mr Van Baarle spoke of this. There is, of course, a huge shortage of housing, an even greater shortage of social housing and enormous liberalisation. That is extremely undesirable. As many as 12,000 status holders can't get to a house. The result is, of course, stagnation in the integration of those status holders, but also high costs for society. Because the status holders remain forced into an asylum-seekers' centre. They will not be able to provide their own income. The government's gonna pay for that shelter. I have already made the sum to Mr Eerdmans: it amounts to 12,000 status holders sitting in an asylum seekers' centre, which costs around EUR 335 million a year. That's a huge amount we wouldn't have had to spend if there had been enough homes. Does the government recognize that? I read a message yesterday that 800 homes will be added for status holders. That's a drop on a glowing plate. I wonder why we didn't get a letter about that. I'd like an explanation. Can the government indicate when this deficit has been resolved? Can you do that next year? I would remind the government of the proposals put forward by the SP for this. Distribute the refugees fairly across the country and across the municipalities. Let not only poor municipalities, but also rich municipalities receive refugees. Provide small-scale reception and buffer capacity, so you won't be able to experience surprises every time the inflow is temporarily higher. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the nuisance in Ter Apel by public transport. It's been coming along for a while. I find that extremely worrying. The bus drivers are taking action. We must not abandon them. It'll happen now. They are structurally threatened, harassed and intimidated, for example by asylum seekers, often from safe countries, who refuse to pay. My proposal is as follows. Get ready for dinner with all those involved. Work out solutions. Look at the possibilities for extra supervision, for driving cancellations and subscriptions. But make sure this stops. Safety is the most important thing, especially for our own bus drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u82	A final interruption by Mr Markuszower, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u83	I didn't know they were limited. But fine, then, the last one. Mr Van Dijk of the SP says: we must not abandon those bus drivers. However, Mr Van Dijk does abandon his plans, because he wants to build asylum seekers everywhere throughout the Netherlands, house them everywhere and give them housing everywhere. I was at a food bank with Mr Wilders in Hengelo last week. Hundreds of people with no money left to buy food.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u84	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u85	All that money, the shelter, the money and the food, we don't give them now, to people who used to vote SP, but we now give it to people from abroad. I ask Mr Van Dijk why he facilitates this, so against our own Dutch people, against our own former SP voters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u86	We are in favour of a realistic asylum policy. This means that people who are entitled to care here also have the right to the facilities available. People who are not entitled to asylum, they must return. That is the Achilles heel of asylum policy and of this cabinet: it is not possible to bring back asylum seekers who have been tried. That also leads to the blockage we are talking about today. So you have to be strict in that, but we don't say: the Netherlands is locked and never let anyone in. That is completely unrealistic. The SP advocates a fair refugee policy and we take our fair share of refugees in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u87	You're at the end of your speech. Well, well, well. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u88	Thank you, Madam President. While hundreds of thousands of Dutch people cannot get a home, today we are talking about housing even more immigrants. For decades our borders have been wide open. In 1947, the Dutch population was even more than 99% Dutch. Meanwhile, we've slipped to 74%. The gradual but steady replacement of our population continues. The projections range from 2050 to 2100, but somewhere in the second half of this century Dutch people are a minority in their own country. This year we still have to give thousands of asylum seekers a home, so within a month. Next year, there should be almost three times as many. Where an asylum seeker is allocated an average social housing within ten weeks, a Dutchman has to wait ten years. And a house is so much more than a lot of stones. It's a place where you retire, where you feel safe, where you're with the people you love. It's a place of security and security. It's a place where you can start a family, give the kids you get a home. It's a place where the past comes together and the future takes shape. And it's exactly what Dutch people are being taken away from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u89	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a quick question. Can Mr Jansen give us the definition of "Dutch"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u91	Yes. I think everyone knows that. The Dutch are just the people who have always been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u92	My mother's from Ireland, she's just married to a Dutch man.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u93	Yeah, that's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u94	She's also just Dutch, but she hasn't always been here. If we go all the way back in history: a lot of people are descended from Huguenots or French or Spaniards. I would like to make it clear, for the purity of the discussion, what a Dutchman is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u95	So people can also become Dutch, such as Mrs Van der Plas' mother. That's right. That's what's gonna happen. I think that most people feel if someone is a Dutchman or not. In any case, it is quite clear that the figures show that the people who come from the Netherlands are the people who have been here, and that may be annoying to some people, but yes, history goes as it goes. That group is getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr Jansen says "everyone can feel it," but I don't. Otherwise, I won't be standing here because I don't feel it. I would like to know what is a Dutchman. If you just name what you think of a Dutchman, that's fine with me. I have no further judgment on that. When I hear "the Dutchman," I can't imagine that much. What you mean by that, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u97	That is precisely the problem, namely that Mrs Van der Plas does not feel it. I think the CBS is very clear. With migration figures you have the categories Dutch and non-Dutch. That's the category I'm talking about. It's a very difficult thing for you to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u98	Well. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u99	Young people live with their parents longer and longer. There's just no houses left for them. More than 30% of all 25-year-olds still live at home. It is now simply impossible to rent a house on your own, let alone buy it. The social consequences of this are disastrous. The Dutch are having fewer and later children. Our population is shrinking, but the population is growing, but only because of immigration. We already see in our big cities that Dutch people are in the minority. The birth rate of the Dutchman is currently below 1.5, while it should be at least 2.1 for a stable population level. This means that the number of Dutch people decreases by 25% per generation. Our country is changing. When you walk on the street, you sometimes wonder where you are. The feeling of unreality that overwhelms you when you only hear other languages around you. Groups of dark figures with hoods and scooters who hang out on the streets and look around with unknown intentions. The feeling of insecurity. The feeling of estrangement. The feeling that you don't feel at home anymore. If Mrs Van der Plas doesn't know that feeling, I don't think she's in touch with a lot of Dutch people who do. The Dutch did not leave the Netherlands, but the Netherlands did leave the Dutch, or rather you abandoned the Dutch. Everyone here is working on housing funds and building 1 million homes in ten years, but nobody dares mention why that would be necessary at all. If you and your parties hadn't brought half the world here for 50 years, we wouldn't be in this kind of trouble. Yes, these parties, VVD, CDA, D66, Christian Union and PvdA, are responsible for the undermining of our country and our people. 4 million people were brought here. 4 million! And then all we have to do is count the first and second generations. The third and fourth are not even counted. 4 million people. What an impact that has had on our society. Imagine if that hadn't happened. Imagine what our country would have looked like. The hospitals wouldn't be overloaded by now. Then we wouldn't be struggling with learning disadvantages in education and the classes wouldn't be that big. Then we wouldn't have all this crime and street trouble. Then we didn't have to sacrifice our natural and agricultural land for surplus housing. Then there was cosiness and trust. Then the doors and the bikes didn't have to be locked. Then you didn't have to look over your shoulder at an ATM. Girls couldn't care less about the streets alone. Then it was innocent to be faltered instead of that intimidating sis and screamed with "cancer whore." Mr. Chairman. We don't need more houses, but we need fewer immigrants. Let's get this over with, because we're never leaving here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u101	I thought Mrs van der Plas' question was actually justified. Then who is the Dutchman? If you got Dutch nationality, are you a Dutchman? May you then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u102	It's possible. It's possible. Yeah, absolutely. People can become Dutch. I said that very clearly, but in many cases we see that this is not the case at all. I also think it is selective indignation that this is being done here as if it were a very controversial thing. We all know what this is about. You're walking down the street, aren't you? You see these groups, don't you? You do feel threatened, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u103	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mrs. Kuik feels the same way, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u105	We're gonna hear it. Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u106	It's about the point that it's good to hear, also from FVD, that you're really Dutch when you're naturalized and you've gotten the Dutchmanship. At least that's what I hear. Then you'll be part of it and you'll be proud to be part of our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u107	No, I don't think it is. That's exactly the point I'm trying to make: naturalization doesn't mean that something fundamentally changes a human being. We give away passports to the conveyor belt. For example, your party recently voted to issue 10,000 new passports to all kinds of people from all over the world. Some people can indeed integrate, participate and be Dutch, but we see that this does not apply to many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u108	What a Dutchman is or isn't is legally defined, so legally your story is bullshit. But maybe it's deeper. Maybe it's a feeling of "we/she" and it's much deeper than the legal, a passport or whether you were born here or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u109	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u110	My question is: do you think I am a Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u111	I don't know you very well, but as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u112	Okay. Then I'm gonna ask here anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u113	I'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mr Jansen has the opportunity to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u115	I find you a particularly pleasant and friendly person. I've got all... what are you saying? Well, that's definitely part of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u116	Wait. Wait. I don't want the room to go in. Mr Jansen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u117	Maybe they should get the mike. I'd love to have a cup of coffee sometime. Then we can get to know each other, but I don't think there would be any doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u118	I'm glad Mr. Jansen thinks I'm a nice person. Can I conclude from this that non-happy people are non-Dutch? Is that how you draw the dividing line? Legally, you don't draw him...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u119	I'd also like to go through the chairman, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u120	So I'm wondering if non-comfortable people I think you said non-comfortable people are non-comfortable people for you. Is that the distinction you make? If not, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u121	That's a feature of it, some sort of exponent. I am talking, for example, about the street terror that is taking place. Those are not pleasant people and I don't think that's a Dutch thing at all. That's not how we treat each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u122	I have one more question. If someone, regardless of where their parents or grandparents come from, acts terror on the streets, is abominable or is a nuisance, then the one for Forum voor Democracy is de facto not a Dutchman. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u123	No, of course not. We are now going to pretend that there is no history, as if everyone in this country suddenly poof! - Oh, my God. - No, those people came from somewhere. Can people become Dutch? That might be possible, but if certain groups do this structuralally, then we should not play hide-and-seek. Yes, people who are originally Dutch can also be very annoying. But why do we import more of that kind of behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u124	First Mrs Koekkoek, then Mr Eerdmans and then Mr Boulakjar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u125	I will go on to the questions that have been asked about what a Dutchman is. Below the figure that was just mentioned from the CBS statistics I am, but not my children. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u126	Because it's a very strict definition. But it's true that you have another distinction in that. The CBS currently uses all kinds of categories, but they will be removed in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u127	This was also your last interruption, by the way. Mr Eerdmans and then Mr Boulakjar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u128	I really want to leave this issue and just talk about the subject of this debate, which is... Yeah, just do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u129	Yes, first Mr Boulakjar of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u130	What I hear here today is really another low point in this room. Here is a fellow MEP who decides for a moment who is or is not a Dutchman. That is really outrageous! I'd like to mark that for a moment. But I would also like to ask who, according to his definition, is Dutch. Is colleague Hülya Kat Dutch? Jorien Wuite? Kati Piri? Gidi Markuszower? Vera Bergkamp? Khadija Arib? All those fantastic people working for this country on a daily basis? Do you, Mr. Jansen, decide whether or not they are Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u131	I think that's what we decide with each other. The way people behave has a very important role to play in this. But I do think there is a very hypocritical debate here. I think it's very sanctimonious how this goes. It's like some bingo card: we've distanced ourselves from it again. We need to talk about this sometime. If we want the Netherlands to continue to exist in the next hundreds of years, then we need to talk about this. We are in danger of becoming a minority in our own country. That's what's gonna happen. If we don't recognize that, that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u132	This is your last question. Then we go back to the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u133	We know Forum for Democracy as the party of homeopathic dilution. That was already a low point. But I ask the question again: are all parliamentarians with a migration background Dutch or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u134	You want me to put people on the same page, but I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u135	Let us indeed return to the subject on which the debate is about. I call Mr Eerdmans. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u136	I have a question for Mr Jansen. We now have a debate on status holders. These are people who have been granted a residence permit for years. Sometimes it is extended afterwards or even permanently. The question is: where are we going to house these people, according to Mr Jansen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u137	Ideally just in their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u138	But if these people have a title here, we can't ship them abroad. That seems impossible to me in Forumland too. But the question is: do you agree with me that we should do that in clustered central facilities, outside the housing stock that we now know and where there is pressure in the municipalities? That way we can house these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u139	No, I'm in favour of them going back to the country they came from. I also think that we should see whether we can revise the permanent residence permits we have issued over the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u140	Okay. Are you aware that you yourself tabled a motion on 8 July calling on the government to allow housing at regional or central locations so that the homes can initially be reallocated to the Dutch? That motion was also supported by the VVD, by us and the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u141	You can see that as some kind of temporary solution, but they just have to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr. Eerdmans, finally. This is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u143	Yeah, that's good. You did a bit of a scuffle at me: what are you doing and so on? I think we could table this proposal again, because it relieves the pressure. It is about how we can ensure that those waiting lists do not become any longer for people who have been waiting for this for years and yet we fulfil our duty to give these people a home. I think that you can do a little less about that if you yourself put forward such a proposal less than six months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u144	That proposal was about something completely different. It's about azc locations. That's not about building houses, it's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u145	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u146	Yes, I do. That was the intention of our motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u147	Perhaps you could exchange the motions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u148	You may want to have some sort of semantic discussion about this, but the point is that we should not all now be building massive houses for people who simply should not be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u151	Then we shall proceed to Mr Boulakjar's maiden speech. That's always a happy moment. As usual, there are no interruptions and Mr Boulakjar also has a little more time for his story. I call Mr Boulakjar of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought, "Let me pick a nice theme for my maiden speech." I've brought fans, I see. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, our spokesperson for Integration, Salima Belhaj, published a book on my desk, entitled "A half century in the Netherlands," with stories about the first generation of guest workers. The book reminded me of my own father, who came to the Netherlands in 1966 as a young man only from the Moroccan Rif. I was reminded of all those young men who left their families, children and history for a better life in Europe. Today I want to honor them, all those hardworking guest workers, from this place by devoting my maiden speech to them. Mr. Chairman. My father found his new home in Breda, where he went to work at Nibb-it chips factory. With a number of cousins and friends he rented a guest house, and with this started his new life in the Netherlands: hard work, not whining and being satisfied with the opportunities you get. That was their attitude. Every summer he went back to his wife in Morocco. It's not a coincidence that it's my brothers and sisters' birthday in April. But after seventeen years alone in the Netherlands loneliness began to take its toll. The family reunification was tough because there was no prospect of a suitable rental house. With the help of his GP, who noticed his loneliness, he eventually found a family home, where my parents live to this day. Shortly after signing the rental contract in 1982 I brought it along, always well preserved our family came over to start a new existence in the Netherlands. We didn't have much at home. Because in addition to his own family, my father also maintained his parents and family in Morocco. Father sent us to Protestant Christian elementary school. We learned how to deal with different cultures. Every Christmas we went to church with school. The Gloria in excelsis Deo is still in my head. Mr. Chairman. My interest in politics came from my father. As a little boy I watched the debates on TV with Lubbers and later Kok with him for evenings as a translator. He had great respect for them. I didn't just translate when I was watching debates with my dad. When our school got a department for newcomers and refugees, I helped the children from Morocco who spoke to Berbers on their way. Mr. Chairman. I like to help people on their way. After studying, I started working as a social worker with young people in vulnerable neighbourhoods and later as an advisor in the social domain and in the city council of Breda. Here too, from the Chamber, I want to help people get on the road with affordable housing and equal opportunities to grow up in a liveable neighborhood. Mr. Chairman. The story of the first generation of migrant workers was not just the image of poor young men who came to Europe for a better life. It is also a story of pioneers who came to help build Europe. As in the 1960s, the Netherlands is now suffering from a shortage of staff. There are opportunities for status holders to get to work quickly and contribute to a strong Netherlands. It is no good to anyone that status holders stay in asylum-seekers' centres for too long. Every day that they cannot learn the language, live in isolation and cannot work on their development is one day too much. In order to participate fully as soon as possible, housing is therefore essential. It is good that we are debating the housing of status holders today. Mr. Chairman. It is known that we are short in the Netherlands. A lot of people are waiting for an affordable home. For the long term, therefore, we need to build faster and more. Temporary homes can be a solution for the short term. These houses are affordable, quick to install and nowadays also durable and isolated built. It is good to see that the initial results of the Housing Scheme are well known and that with EUR 35 million, almost 9,000 additional places of residence and residence have already been provided. I have a few questions for the Minister. At what time are these dwellings expected to be there under the scheme? How are municipalities still supported in realising homes for emergency seekers? And in what way are projects to house different groups of emergency seekers encouraged? Mr. Chairman. Before you can work on sufficient housing for status holders, it is important that there is a clear view of the entry and exit at the COA. The picture is that action is often taken too late when there are signs that the influx is increasing, but also when the outflow to housing is stalling, resulting in emergency care and constantly pressing requests to municipalities. The problem begins in Ter Apel and then flows to other municipalities. The Secretary of State states that with COA and the National Regietable, she tries to match the number of reception places with the forecast, but that this does not always come from the ground up. Can the Commission answer the question as to why it is still not working well with the prognosis? Can she explain why it took so long to take action, while it was already clear that municipalities would not meet their targets partly because of the shortage of housing? Mr. Chairman. If we want to get hold of status holders properly, Rich and local authorities will have to work together. I see local authorities want to assume their responsibilities when they are called upon, for example in the De Baronie region in my own Brabant, where several municipalities together provide temporary housing for status holders. Are there more such examples where regional cooperation works well? What more can the Minister do to encourage such cooperation between municipalities? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I started my story with the first generation of guest workers. They've meant a lot to our country. Not only have they contributed to a strong economy, but they have also produced a lot of talent: top athletes, mayors, chamber presidents, parliamentarians, and all those people who run our society every day, such as in care and education. They are stories of many Dutch people who have taken advantage of the opportunities offered by our society. That's the story of D66 for me, too. I am proud that thanks to one of those guest workers I can stand here today, in an honorable place, to serve the Netherlands and together with colleagues to keep this beautiful country strong and connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u153	Thank you, Mr. Boulakjar, for your beautiful and personal story. I wish you every success in this Chamber. I think we have a positive MP here, and I wish you every success. I suggest we suspend for a very short time. Then you can receive the congratulations. I can see a lot of your colleagues standing by. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u154	The next item is the debate on housing status holders. I would like to give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u155	Thank you very much, and once again congratulations to Mr Boulakjar for his wonderful maiden speech. He's my favorite D66 man, I say. We'll tell you that again. Mr. Chairman. Refugees aren't strange to our country. The Flemings who fled the reign of terror of the Spaniards found a home here. Portuguese Jews and French Huguenots found acceptance of their faith here. And during World War II, many farmers provided shelter for Jews in the countryside, among other things. Years later we received Indonesians and ex-Yugoslavs. The difference with now is that there was clarity in all these refugee flows. We knew who the people were, what the Netherlands could do for them and what they were going to contribute to us. This is in great contrast to now. We have a huge stream of refugees, whose origin and connection with the Netherlands is unclear for many people, and whose role in our society is not fulfilled. The fate of refugees has come to stand at a distance from society. This year was the 70th anniversary of the 1951 Refugee Convention. Normally, I can always poke for a party, but not now. This outdated treaty does not provide answers to today's migration challenges. From left to right in this Chamber there is dissatisfaction with this inadequate treaty. Can the Secretary of State state state whether she considers the treaty to be appropriate to the present time? And can the Secretary of State share the options that the Netherlands has in encouraging the revision of this treaty? Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the Secretary of State is busy carrying out my motion on refugees in state buildings. I need to be at peace that they can't get into this building. However, I would like to give the following to my colleagues here in the Chamber. All the inconveniences we feel about safety or disruption of work through this proposal also apply to people in the Netherlands. An azc or emergency shelter places in a small community also has enormous consequences for the sense of safety and the daily course of things. These people are also wondering: how do we abolish the tie? It is extremely important that we are aware of this, because often these people are accused equally of racism or fascism. The polarization is only getting bigger. But often it's just fear, uncertainty, unclearness and, above all, ignorance. The poor conditions currently faced by refugees in reception are partly due to the lack of status of a group of migrants, e.g. processed asylum seekers who occupy facilities for vulnerable refugees. As far as BBB is concerned, the Netherlands must put maximum diplomatic pressure on safe countries that refuse to take their citizens back. Does Morocco, for example, not want to cooperate? Perhaps financial transactions from the Netherlands to Morocco should become more difficult. And perhaps the Netherlands in Brussels will lead to a less laughable interpretation of the association agreement. Can the Secretary of State explain what she has already tried in this area and what she is still willing to try? Mr. Chairman. A few months ago I went with my highly esteemed colleague Alexander.... he sits there in the corner.... go look in the azc in Ter Apel. At the Return and Departure Service I learned about the creative and practical ways in which they managed to promote voluntary return until a few years ago. For example, an Ethiopian man was satisfied with a Barneveld chicken run, so that he could start a chicken farm at home. With the purchase of a second-hand suit, a Nigerian could convince his home village that he had made it in Europe, because the shame of young men is often great on return. A simple suit made him dare to go home. The resources and regulations that made this creativity possible have been limited in recent years. I get that. There was a need in the Chamber not to hand out gifts to processed asylum seekers. But I think we made a mistake with that. If the service can buy a suit for a couple of tens and thus move an out-of-court asylum seeker to return to his country of origin, it is worth it. Can the Minister tell us what the possibilities are for giving the service more room for this kind of practical solutions? I know: it won't solve the outflow immediately and many people will say it's a drop on the glowing plate. But many drops make the album less glowing. Meanwhile, the flow of those who are allowed to stay here also stagnates. I understand the split that the Secretary of State is in. If you give priority to many status holders, it is at the expense of long-awaited Dutch people, because there are too few houses. So we need more houses. But that is not possible because of the nitrogen restrictions imposed by ourselves. We are also slowly regulating this country. For the time being, therefore, the only option remains to limit the inflow at the front so that the system can breathe. Does the Secretary of State agree with this? Does she see other ways out of this vicious circle? We must ensure that these people have a place to live so that they can work and integrate into society, but this should not be at the expense of people who have been waiting for a home for years. This is unfair. They, too, urgently need homes and have been waiting a long time. Mr President, I will conclude. The Statue of Liberty in New York says: Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free. In other words, give me your tired, your poor, your united masses who long to breathe freely. A beautiful spell, but then that breathing space must be there and then we must also have the capacity to meet it. And that is not the case at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u156	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u157	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, congratulations to Mr Boulakjar for his beautiful, personal maiden speech, on a relevant subject indeed. Madam President. You're just gonna be a starter and have been waiting for years for a social rental. There's a house in the neighborhood. Finally. But unfortunately, it doesn't do you any good, because a few days later, a status holder takes his place in that. The high asylum influx and the cut-off in the housing market cause enormous problems, and they also reinforce each other once again. It is right to talk about both a housing crisis and an asylum crisis. Municipalities and provinces should be looking everywhere for asylum seekers' shelters. And yes, there aren't any. That is why the SGP now wants to close the borders for people who are safe in other countries. We have not yet resolved this problem; it is structural. A fundamental debate on how to deal with high immigration as a small and densely populated country should no longer be avoided. Of course it's being discussed. Of course, theories are involved. But it continues to happen from the trenches and, as far as we are concerned, we are thinking very carefully about the policy. Mr. Chairman. Residents are, unfortunately, the victims of the asylum crisis. Let it be clear: the SGP believes that status holders deserve a roof over their heads. But in almost all municipalities, a social housing unit still takes precedence over a status holder rather than a young family. And that, in our opinion, is inexplicable. As far as the SGP is concerned, it can also be a bit more sober, as you know us. Much more needs to be done on office buildings, semi-permanent housing units, non-self-contained living space where multiple status holders can be accommodated. That's a serious option. Does the Minister, then, share this view with the Secretary of State? Since 2017, municipalities are no longer obliged to grant preferential treatment to status holders. Only a handful of municipalities now no longer see status holders as urgent. Can the cabinet indicate what this is in? How is the cabinet going to encourage municipalities to abandon this preferred policy? Municipalities that do not use the preferred policy should specify in the Housing Regulation how they fulfil their tasks. Does this provision not act as an obstacle to the abolition of that urgency clause? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the year 2022. The COA expects to need at least 42,000 asylum shelters by that year. And then there's an optimistic pair of glasses. Concrete question to the Secretary of State: how are the COA's rental contracts coming to an end? How many shelters are we talking about? And how does the Secretary of State prepare for less rosy scenarios? Mr. Chairman. COA chairman of the board Schoenmaker recently said in Trouw: we want to get rid of the yojo policy. I fully agree with that. I've argued for that before. We have been saying since 2015: invest permanently in that asylum chain. Unfortunately, for many years, we have been basking on the waves of a powerless process. We follow the market, the peaks and the valleys. Knowledge and expertise have been lost since the previous asylum crisis and the lack of direction and vision, we must be disappointed. That is why the SGP makes three proposals. First of all, create a central permanent knowledge centre in which all relevant data and knowledge are available. It is now very divided among all kinds of agencies. Secondly, provide more money and staff, so that the chain can take a hit and you are not dependent on the peaks and the downfalls in the supply. Thirdly, set up a special crisis team for situations where there is an unexpected large increase in asylum seekers. I would like to get a response to these three proposals. I look forward to the answer with joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u158	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u159	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Boulakjar on a wonderful speech. I look forward to working with you. I am doing my part on behalf of GroenLinks today. Mr. Chairman. In the preparation of this debate I came across an article from Trouw from last October. The headline was: "Flights in tents never wanted the Netherlands again. Then why is history threatening to repeat itself?" In my view, this is the central question that we must ask ourselves during this debate. How is it possible that this outgoing cabinet will be surprised again and again? How is it possible for us to return to this position with all the consequences of that? When this missionary cabinet started in 2017, the ambitions for a more flexible asylum reception were clear. Three points. There would be smaller and sufficient reception centres. Cooperation with municipalities would be strengthened. And the accumulation of asylum applications would be avoided as much as possible. Already in 2018, one year after this cabinet took office, the COA had a shortage of 5,000 places. The year before, there were locations with a total of 11,000 places closed. In 2019, the year the Secretary of State for Justice and Security took office, the COA lacked 5,000 places. And now, almost two years on, we're again missing thousands of shelters, no less than 13,000. Flexible reception capacity was not addressed despite the additional measures taken by last December's Secretary of State to prevent shortages in reception capacity. Just now that we are in this situation, the cabinet is reducing the budget for the COA for 2022 by 128 million. Mr. Chairman. We must conclude that the ambitions of the cabinet have not been fulfilled in this area, far from it. I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State points to the causes of the current shortages. And that these deficits have major consequences, let us be clear. At the moment there are shelters where as many as 800 people hut on each other. They are halls where curtains or a cabinet with lockers as walls function. The Red Cross has already indicated that we have now fallen below the human lower limit. In a country like the Netherlands, nobody should be taken care of in this way. No one, but certainly not the people they've worked side by side with our military in Afghanistan. Shameless! How does this reconcile with the warm welcome policy for Afghan former employees who were welcomed in Chamberwide? I'd like a response. I also wonder why cooperation with municipalities has not improved, despite the ambitions of the government agreement. In an interview in the Volkskrant, the mayor of Ter Apel, Mr. Jaap Velema, said that on his request for help to the cabinet, and I quote, "a great radio silence followed from The Hague." According to the mayor, the cabinet pretended this was a local problem, while I think Ter Apel is the most hospitable municipality in the Netherlands. I like to hear, now that Ter Apel has been doing his service for years, when a new registration center is coming. How is it possible that cooperation with the municipalities to scale up sufficiently in time is inadequate? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Is the COA based on sufficient buffer capacity to absorb fluctuations, as the ambition was? Mr. Chairman. In this debate, newcomers are placed as the scapegoat by a number of parties. While they are not the reason that a lot of Dutch people cannot get a home at the moment. Even the housing crisis with a shortage of 300,000 homes in 2021 is attributed to this small group. But let's just tell each other the truth. The real cause of the current deficits is the underlying malpractice, the failure to meet ambitions, of agreements that proved to be worthless. The real cause is the head-in-the-sand policy whereby rigged shelters were dismantled when it was thought for a moment that they were no longer needed. It is a history that repeats itself over and over again without taking lessons from it. It's gotta be done sometime. Please, let this debate be superfluous next year, my appeal to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Valstar of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested by Mr Eerdmans on 14 September. We heard him as the first speaker, you couldn't have missed it. That was almost three months ago. In the meantime, we have experienced a considerable influx, which has put further pressure on the chain, partly as a result of lifting the corona travel restrictions and the arrival of passengers and the sudden evacuation of Afghans. Add to this the 12,000 status holders who are trapped in the azc's because of the screaming housing shortage and as a result the minister and the Secretary of State have to go through the municipalities with the hat in hand to realize emergency shelters. This is an undesirable situation, which, of course, originates from the high influx. As far as my group is concerned, the only long-term solution remains reception in the region, so that migrants no longer make a dangerous journey on their own and choose a country that suits them. On top of the high influx, there are a number of frustrating factors which further increase the pressure on reception. I'll mention a few. The Greek status holders who, because of the terrible circumstances, can no longer go back and thus again enter the mill. What steps is the government taking in cooperation with other European countries to improve the situation in Greece? Does this mean that the Greek status holders will be able to return at a later date? I'd like a response. Secondly, the refusal of a corona test by processed asylum seekers. In this way, there are already hundreds of Dublin applicants who have re-entered the procedure. To all those who felt a bit nauseous about the motion that it made last week, or two weeks ago, I say that any place occupied by these people is at the expense of a refugee who is looking for safety here and who may therefore have to sleep on a desk chair. What kind of feeling does that evoke? Three. Finally, the withdrawal of nationals by safe countries, such as Morocco. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her response to my motion to join France in adopting visa measures against non-cooperative countries. In her response, she writes that France sees room for tighter testing. At the same time, she writes that Dutch implementation practice offers little room for stricter testing. The cabinet also writes that no fewer visa applications have been dealt with. It is, of course, a question of whether fewer visas have been issued. This seems to be the case, because since January, the number of visas issued by France to Moroccans has decreased. Especially the Moroccan transport sector complains about not obtaining those visas anymore. So what's the outcome? Is the Netherlands stricter than France? If not, where's the discrepancy? The number of asylum seekers rejected in the previous paragraphs varies from several hundred to thousands. That's a relatively small number, but it has a big impact. It is the differences that lead to whether there will be an emergency shelter in your municipality or not. They are small numbers, but to a large extent they put further pressure on the capacity of Dutch society. Apart from the high inflow and the frustrating factors in the outflow, there is also a large lag in the flow. Over 6,000 status holders are stuck in the azc's for more than 14 weeks. The directors indicate that until July 2022 there is a call for accommodation for 14,000 status holders. How realistic that is, I ask both the Secretary of State and the Minister. Is the projected number of 42,000 shelters for the following year also taken into account the fulfilment of that housing statement? If not, how much is the number going to be? Mr. Chairman. What is the worst case scenario with regard to reception places for asylum seekers? Suppose all emergency shelters and temporary azc's with a contract expire until the first quarter of next year, what is the basis on which the COA can fall back? Can the Secretary of State promise here that as soon as the COA starts exploring a specific location, the mayors and aldermen will also be included? We have heard quite a few examples of them being robbed with it, when it was already settled. Mr President, concluding. The amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Koerhuis, where is he? It was adopted yesterday. With this, we make 100 million available for the construction of flex homes for example status holders, students and migrant workers. If we look at the three pilots for status holders that are currently running, we can see that around €5,000 in national contributions are given per flex house. This means that approximately 20,000 flex houses can be placed. My question to the Minister is: what roadmap is there for the COA and the municipality? Can she inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you, Mr. Valstar. There is an interruption by Mr Eerdmans. This is his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u163	I have a question for Mr Valstar. I am well aware that Mr Rutte here at the General Political Reviews said: 'In March, everyone must vote for those VVD aldermen in all those cities, because they are going to abolish the primacy regime. This does not hinder the people who have been waiting for a long time by influxing status holders who get these homes." Does Mr Valstar agree with me that this call is totally useless, because its own VVD cabinet forces those municipalities to include a number of status holders, now 13,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u164	Let me get this straight. Are you referring to placing status holders with priority in social housing...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u165	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u166	... or are you talking about the assignment? In 2017, that was still in the law and that was abolished by the House of Representatives. There are still a number of municipalities that can decide for themselves. I've also read your migration plan. The VVD is often present in this, so I think you have also read the VVD election programme. It also says that the VVD would like to get rid of that. But at the same time, I would also like to outline a dilemma. If we were to stop doing so tomorrow, the azc's would continue to fill up and we would be here next week to have another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u167	Thank you. No, no, Mr. Eerdmans, it was already your last interruption. But you still have a second term and the cabinet will answer all the questions later. You've really had enough interruptions. That's true. And we'll do it right for everyone else, otherwise I'll have other colleagues who say they want to do it again. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating my colleague Mr Boulakjar on his beautiful and personal maiden speech. Congratulations! Mr. Chairman. We're in a vicious circle. The housing industry suffers from licensing problems and material shortages and there is a shortage of housing throughout the country. It has also been a challenge for several years to realise sufficient housing for status holders. Add to that that this year will have to accommodate far more status holders than in 2020. This is going to take a great deal of effort. The question is, how do we break this? We want people who have a status to participate and integrate well. We also have an interest in them being able to make a start in our society. Just by getting status holders out of an azc as quickly as possible and into society, you get better integration. The use of flexible homes and tiny houses can provide some relief in the short term. Can the Minister indicate what the expectations for 2022 are for these flexible dwellings? In my own city, when there was a shortage of student homes, quite rap housing containers were placed. "Housing containers" sounds more cheap than it is; you really do live there nice. What are the bottlenecks here and how can the government help municipalities in this task? Do municipalities still have doubts? Then I'd say there's actually no time for that. On people who do not have a chance and train to return here, we have already tabled various motions in several debates. We see at the O.V., in the buses, but also in the trains, that drivers and passengers feel unsafe and are also unsafe. We believe that this should not be possible. I ask the Secretary of State if she can indicate how she and the regions, provinces and companies are going to see how this security can be secured. Mr Van Dijk already made that point and so did Mr Valstar. I agree with that. The Housing Act states that municipalities have to house a defined number of asylum seekers with a residence permit every six months. The province oversees this. It is also important for the CDA that there is a fair spread across the country. The richer municipalities will also have to participate. There's got to be a discrepancy here. How does the Cabinet see this? The problems at the beginning of the procedure are acute at the registration centre in Ter Apel. What's the latest? Is there enough shelter for Christmas and the provinces in each of them contribute their share? What can and will the Secretary of State and the Minister do if the provinces do not take their share, in order to prevent all pressure from returning to Ter Apel? Finally, the question of whether we could not have predicted this earlier and whether we would not have been able to respond to this earlier. Why have we not made the link and taken account of family reunification? We've placed an order with the IND to eliminate backlogs. This will, of course, lead to more things at some point. To what extent is there a link? Can this be considered in full from now on? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my congratulations for the beautiful maiden speech. I look forward to good cooperation and the debate. Mr. Chairman. What is the difference between a Dutch passport and a Dutch residence permit? This seems to have been the subject of some of the debate today. Fortunately, this debate has not been conducted in this way by every party, but too much. Today we seem to suggest that we can and can treat asylum seekers and migrants differently. Everyone has the same right to a home: a starter, an older one, a homeless one and a status holder. The fact that this is so often contested by so many parties today is poignant and indicative of how far we have slipped in the Netherlands when it comes to asylum and migration. Why? Status holders and residences are two different debates. Living is not part of asylum and migration policy, but part of housing policy. That's why I want to look at the bigger picture. I do this on the basis of three topics: emergency care and emergency measures for asylum seekers, safe living, and solutions and alternatives. First of all, emergency care and emergency measures. The structural under-financing and cuts in the centre for reception and asylum and the closure of asylum seekers' centres have led to a shortage of reception places. The emergency shelter that is now being set up in tents or halls is undersized. Children and vulnerable groups are particularly affected by this. The Secretary of State has indicated on several occasions that the political support of municipalities is decreasing with a view to municipal elections. The COA and the IND indicate that most of the support for care is disappearing. This is unacceptable. What action does the Secretary of State take to resolve these problems? For example, are best practices exchanged between the different municipalities? Is there also pressure on municipalities that avoid their responsibilities? What steps are being taken to provide structural solutions. For example, Volt has chosen with You're welcome how many municipalities in the Netherlands do support shelter. Is the Secretary of State aware of this initiative? Does the Secretary of State cooperate with municipalities covered by this initiative? For example, is it also looking at small-scale care, which makes it easier for municipalities to provide care? What creative solutions are used to create shelters as soon as possible, such as the use of vacant buildings, holiday parks and flex houses as an interim solution? Second, safe living. The housing of all groups deserves more attention. This means that for each group we look at a safe living environment and the creation of more social housing. It is precisely the vulnerable groups that are the first to be hit hardest. Having said that, I would like to talk about a safe living environment for asylum seekers and status holders. What about the right to education, socio-psychological assistance and tailor-made care? Are facilities in the neighbourhood being considered, such as work, daily expenditure and training? Does the Secretary of State see opportunities for improvement on all these aspects? The policy now in place is to adopt a bed when a bed is available. That doesn't work, especially for children. How do we guarantee that children can live in a safe environment? What about care specifically intended for families? Will specific attention also be given to single minor refugees and, if so, in what way? We also see that lhbti'ers are consistently victims of violence within the shelter. In its reply to written questions, the Secretary of State asks that suggestions from the WODC report to improve reception facilities will not be answered. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on this? What measures are being taken? How is action taken against Protestants who make the housing environment of asylum seekers and status holders unsafe? Finally, what do we want? Firstly, a structural increase in the funding of the COA and the azc's in order to avoid emergency measures by having a surplus of shelters. Secondly, structural funding for the IND, so that procedures are speeded up and it is a less serious problem if status holders have to stay in care longer. Thirdly, a second registration centre and creative temporary housing solutions. Fourthly, housing policy in which more attention is paid to all vulnerable groups, including homeless people, students, start-ups and status holders. Finally, not making the right to live dependent on the passport. In other words, detach the debate on the housing shortage from the debate on status holders. The crucial thing remains: whether you have a Dutch passport, a residence permit or no paper, the right to live cannot depend on who you are. This is not conducive to strengthening the rule of law. It does not pass into a values-oriented society and it is not effective. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u171	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union. Then we suspend for 45 minutes, including a dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate on migration, asylum seekers and status holders leads to intense emotions, and I understand that. I understand that the news reports of recent weeks on crisis relief and the images you see about it also put pressure on the basis of support. I also understand that people want to be hospitable, but if they see that their own children can't find a place to live, it's coming very close. Mr. Chairman. I can understand this very well. I will therefore try to do justice to these feelings, but also to our rule of law, the root causes and the values that we have as a country. When we zoom out, we are dealing with complex tasks, where easy and or floating slogans do not do justice to the coherence and complexity of what lies ahead. I also expect that as a Chamber we can look at this together and that together we can find good solutions for the Netherlands and conduct good policies. First of all, the housing market. My predecessor, Mrs Koekkoek, also said that we are dealing in particular with a housing market crisis. The housing market would be finished. That is what a minister said in 2017, but we now see that nothing less is true. We're facing an unprecedented housing shortage. Is that the fault of status holders or other people who are given an urgency statement? No. In fact, I dare to say that if a social housing were to be sought, instead of in some areas for more than ten years, we would not have this debate with each other with this urgency. Or maybe, but with another motive. In fact, I think that the problem lies in the feeling that one person is promised something that is taken away from the other. But the problem lies in the housing market. So let's keep our eyes on the ball and not play each other off, because there's a tight spot. Mr. Chairman. Second. An asylum application must be treated fairly. We've committed ourselves to international treaties, and that's not random. Someone who runs from war and conflict, something that few of us can imagine, doesn't just do anything. We believe that the Netherlands could also take up its fair share in relation to the rest of the world. You could also do it in a European context. With different countries, you could come up with a certain system at the external borders. But that route has been running rough for years, partly because countries do not seem to dare and because there are also political parties who ride it on the one hand in the wheels and on the other call for national borders to be guarded in a different way. That's why we're undermining our own situation. We are in favour of taking our fair share when it comes to people fleeing violence and conflict. Then the importance of fast housing. Why is that so important and why does the Christian Union stand for it? On the one hand, this has to do with the fact that you can integrate much faster. I believe it is in the interests of everyone and we, as political parties, also want people to integrate quickly. People participate very quickly, especially when they have their own home, can make meters and no longer live from the shelter, but right in the middle of society. That is why we see it as an investment and not as a cost. Mr. Chairman. If people stay in COA locations, it's gonna get crowded in there. We've been able to see that for the past few months. And as a result, an image is created and much more places are needed de facto. As a result, you create emergency care situations and that also causes the crisis. It is also relatively expensive and therefore not so smart. I should also like to point out that emergency statements are not mandatory, but it is up to the municipal councils themselves. This also fits in with our centralized vision on this subject. Mr. Chairman. I've been trying to make an analysis, a little zooming out, of what we can do. I think we're gonna have to improve the house statement. That is a different debate, but I do highlight it, because we are dealing with a housing challenge more than a status-holder crisis. Mr. Chairman. It is also important to make temporary accommodation possible. A motion for a resolution on this matter has recently been passed. My question is how it stands. I'm worried about you. It's exciting. I wonder if we will not create a new crisis if we do not guard the small scale. My question is whether the Secretary of State can really involve small scale in the plans adopted last week. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to see a piece of self-reflection. After 2015 and the large influx, we have seen that it is important to have crisis relief, to have emergency care, to manage things properly and to have buffer capacity. A lot of advice has been given on this. Yet we have let it happen that we are facing a huge crisis call. This is not just about the influx, because despite the numbers being called, it has not changed very much when you look at the past few years, with the exception of last year. What are the lessons the Secretary of State draws from this? Mr. Chairman. As a final question to the troublemakers, what steps can we take, including those affected by bus drivers? Is there sufficient attention to mental distress from the duty of care? There are also a lot of people who seem to be affected by this. I'm also asking what we, as a government, could do next. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u173	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. Then we have reached the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I'm suspending the meeting until 6:35 p.m. That includes dinner break. Then we'll see each other again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u174	The next item is the debate on housing status holders. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for her first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Broekers-Knol and I have indeed agreed that I will begin. Today we are talking about the housing of status holders, but the debate was, of course, about our two policy areas. I'd like to say a few things about that housing. I will answer the many questions that have been asked, referring to August this year. Because in August of this year, the Secretary of State and I sent a letter to all the King's Commissioners, the delegates, the mayors and the aldermen. We saw then that the COA locations were defecting. This has led us to have worked very closely together in recent months since we called on them. I would also like to express my thanks here to all those administrators, CoKs, mayors, aldermen, delegates and officials for their enormous efforts to help, of course in the care of the shelter, Mrs Broekers-Knol will say something about this later, but also about housing. There have been enormous efforts to achieve this. Despite the fact that we have not yet arrived, I am the first to admit that, I can see that important steps are being taken, both in terms of shelter and housing. The Cabinet believes that it is very important that the licence holders can integrate and participate in our society as soon as possible. Housing is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you. Everyone has six questions or comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u177	I hear the minister say "great effort." But it is actually embarrassing, I would ask the Minister, that a huge effort is being made towards foreigners, people who are not from here, come from outside and should not have any rights at all, while many Dutch people have been waiting for a home for ten years? The Minister for Housing, who deals with housing, is therefore working hard for people from outside, who have never contributed anything to the Netherlands. But people who grew up here don't have a home because the minister isn't working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u178	If I had not had any interruption, my next sentence would have been: there is a tight housing market. That's right. Many people are looking for a suitable home. That's why I, and the cabinet, have been using me over the past few years to increase construction production. We need to increase the stock of homes. I think it is a coincidence, but a fine combination of circumstances that Mr Boulakjar mentioned in his maiden speech the Nibbit factory in Breda. His father worked there as a "guest worker." If you look back on it now, it's actually a very warm word. The people were guests. That factory is now getting a place to live. Thanks to the transformation facility, 600 homes will be built in the old Nibb-it factory in Breda. In other words, while we must now step up our efforts to provide housing for status holders, we have been working for years to ensure increased housing production. Mr Koerhuis is in the Chamber. We have all taken over his slogan 'building, building, building', because we see that the housing market is indeed tight and that there needs to be more flowing. This is good for all groups in society who are looking for a home. Because that's not just status holders. They are also students, starters, families and elderly people. For them too, we must make efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u179	But let's be honest with each other. If 5,000 asylum seekers keep coming in every month, can we not build up against that? That's what I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u180	If you will allow me, I shall confine myself to the housing of the status holders. Then I come to the point that many people are in the shelter who have to leave because they are holding a place for a new asylum seeker. So it's important that this flow gets going. That is why it is important that these municipalities, and we, should now take a step further. Of course, we saw the IND catching up last year. This has also increased the definition of housing. The combination of the increased challenge with the tense housing market means that this will only succeed if we all take a step further. I think it is really good that the municipalities have managed to overcome a great many delays in these difficult circumstances. I am going to speak about this very precisely, because I am going to answer the questions and then I will come to the exact numbers. We must keep that pace and for that we have a great deal of consultation at the so-called 'countryly management table' with the King's Commissioners in order to simply continue to work well together and assist them in doing so. We support the municipalities in different ways. We also have the hotel and accommodation arrangements of JenV that can be helpful in the short term, because sometimes you just have to cover some time. So what we are going to do is to focus on additional forms of housing. That could be permanent housing, but that can also be about flex houses. This could be a new concept that we have introduced in this context called "intermediary facilities": additional temporary accommodation where both status holders, licence holders and other attention groups can temporarily stay. I announced this week that we have been able to provide financial support for over 1,300 temporary homes, of which 800 will go to licence holders. There is another kind of swipe letter coming in which this outcome, which Mr Jasper van Dijk asked for, comes in. It is the elaboration of an arrangement that the Chamber has already known. So I'll come back to that. In addition, the National Real Estate Company has been active. At our request, the National Real Estate Company has inventoried and inventoried buildings that are in our possession, which are state property, capable of developing temporary housing. Municipalities, we know from experience, do not always and all have the knowledge for it and do not always have the capacity for it. That is why the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf has been commissioned to support municipalities and to provide such a concrete overview as possible of such locations, both in their own possession and in the possession of others, which are suitable or suitable for both shelter, which will be discussed by the State Secretary, and for housing. In this way, it will be possible for the next summer to eliminate the delay in the assignment for licence holders and to create more room in the system to meet the targets with less impact on the regular housing market, because that dilemma is, of course, for the municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of specific questions that have just been asked. First of all, to what extent do licence holders actually cause this housing shortage? That was kind of the suggestion that was made. This was accompanied by suggestions. Mr Eerdmans of JA21 asked if we could abolish that mandate. Or can we no longer give priority at all, I thought Mr Markuszower said just now. I don't see it that way. We have said: if people come to the Netherlands and get a status here, get a permit to stay here, it is incredibly important that they can integrate as soon as possible, that they can participate in the Netherlands, in our society, and that cannot be done from an asylum-seekers' centre. This can only be done if you can become part of society in a place with a bed and a roof over your head, whether by finishing your education or by being able to work or learn the language: all those things that are so important for integration. It is precisely now that the housing market is tight that we can only help with this housing. That is why there is a mandate. This is a way to distribute fairly among the Netherlands on the basis of the number of resident licence holders. It is also true that the licence holders have nothing to choose from. They can't actually refuse a place. The minute you refuse the apartment, you're out on the street. Then there's no alternative for you. So there is a difference between how we deal with licence holders and how we deal with other property seekers, who can also say no to a property without any consequences. About 5% to 10% of the homes released are allocated to licence holders on an annual basis. Of course, there's a broader housing requirement than this. I really want to emphasise that. We see dilution of households, as it is called in the jargon. We see an ageing population in the Netherlands, so an ageing population. This also leads to a different need for living. The labour market is evolving and the economy is evolving. So migration causes part of the population growth, absolutely, but then it is about all forms of migration. Then it's also about labour migration. Then it's also about international students. Then it is also about returning Dutch. This includes other migrants from other EU countries. Asylum is therefore only a limited part of it, about 10%. In other words, it is a group for which we have to take a step further, but it is certainly not the group that causes the large deficits in the housing market. Mr. Bishop asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u181	Excuse me. Before you continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u182	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u183	... Mr Eerdmans of JA21 has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u184	I'm just trying to look at the Minister's story from a D66 perspective. With regard to the pressure on an asylum seeker who is allowed to stay here, you say that we really need to take an extra step in order to get that asylum seeker to learn and integrate Dutch properly. I can see that. But because of the pressure on the boiler, it's incredibly difficult to do that. Does this minister agree with us that we have too much influx? You can have the perspective that these people need to get a good place, learn here and integrate here, but then I think the influx is too big for that now. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u185	If you want to have the D66 perspective, you have to ask your colleague Mr Boulakjar. But if you want the cabinet perspective, I can of course answer it. The government's perspective is that the Secretary of State should be given a fair assessment of people who are on the run for whatever reason. That could lead to a permit to stay here. Cabinet policy is that we consider it crucial for those people to integrate into our society as soon as possible. That's what our system is based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u186	But it can't be both. You can't and save the world and give everyone here a good place, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u187	I'd like to save the world, but I don't think that's what this is about. It's about having a system with each other that we committed to. This leads to people coming to the Netherlands and actually getting a permit and thus becoming a licence holder. Based on this, as Minister for the Interior and Minister responsible for housing policy, I would like to make a commitment to ensure that they are able to obtain this accommodation, which is crucial for the follow-up to integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u188	Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u189	I hope he has heard my wonderful answer, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u190	In my order of business, I was in the middle of a debate with the President on how much more I can ask you. I'm actually saying it can't be both. That's what I just said. That takes the impossible of you as a resident minister to fight that for each other. Well, let me just say that. Then all we're talking about today is living. You are right to say that there you are, I think, right in saying that integration of people from strangers is a little more than having a home, although Mr Jansen brought in all kinds of elements to the question of what a home means to someone. That's right, too. But the question is: do you come here as a newcomer to your right in such a way that you also feel mutual acceptance and so on and you settle in a country? Yeah, I just can't. I agree with the way in which perhaps the left side looks at this, but we are not going to make it if that influx is so massive, as with the permanent peak of 40,000 asylum seekers per year that we now have. Once again, it would, I think, be much more social to admit that that number is simply too large. Perhaps that is also a question for the Secretary of State. That number's too high, guys. That's not what we're gonna do. That's the honest answer, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u191	Mr Eerdmans is right: when it comes to influx, I really have to refer to the Secretary of State. That's what she's talking about. That's her wallet. But the question of what is too much is, of course, very difficult to answer. I do know that the housing market is tight and that, while the housing market is tight, we are now dealing with an increase in the influx of people, some of whom will indeed get a permit and will therefore remain. That's what I'm dealing with. I have to take care of that. This means that we are creative, that we are now looking for unorthodox solutions, that we are working hard on temporary homes and flex homes, and that we are working intensively with the municipalities to ensure that these people do not stay too long in the azc's and can integrate into society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u192	The demand for housing is high. There are people who come from outside and are entitled to a home. There are 12,000 waiting for this moment. This discussion is, of course, getting more heated if the cabinet fails to give these people homes. I now get emails from people who say: I've been waiting for a house for so long! It is becoming increasingly difficult to answer that question if the cabinet fails to offer sufficient housing. Does the Minister recognise that she has a great responsibility in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u193	That is why I began by saying that we have been working very intensively with the King's Commissioners and the congregations since August to catch up. This delay was partly caused by more people. This was partly due to the fact that the IND was catching up. We saw that this year's targets doubled compared to the previous years. I also see, as I have just outlined in the figures, that I have come to speak about this a little more extensively, that municipalities actually manage very well to catch up. We are not quite there yet, but if I look through my eye hairs at how we work now, it should be possible to overcome that delay by the summer of next year. This has often been the case in the past. We all remember 2015, when there was also a large supply of new people, especially Syrian refugees, who stayed here for a very large part. Then there was also a moment of great hump. That was in the shelter at the time, but then a year later it immediately translates into housing. At that time there was also a year in which the municipalities were lagging behind. But they were just overtaken in the following year. It doesn't always work out exactly at the right time, but we manage to pull one more leg and recover. We now have an extra problem that we didn't have at the time, namely a much tighter housing market. That was different back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u194	Yeah, but I still think the Minister's making it smaller than it is. This discussion is years old. It has to do with the financing of the shelter and, of course, with the housing offer. You can see it's pinching. We now have weekly TV shows about the situation. 12,000 people are forced to stay in an asylum-seekers' centre, while they are entitled to a home. It's pinching on all sides. I refuse to lay that down only at the influx of refugees. I automatically arrive at the cabinet, which has a duty to provide sufficient housing. You're not gonna be able to do that right now. I note that the cabinet is failing on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u195	That's a little too easy. The cabinet set itself the goal at the beginning of the cabinet period of 75,000 new homes per year. We have done numerous interventions in the housing market, including in the rental sector. Think of the level of rents in the social sector and the free sector to ensure more flow. Yes, the housing market is extremely tight. That's very difficult. We are now at the end of this cabinet period, but we know that we will have to build on that kind of numbers over the next ten years, and rather more, to catch up. Nevertheless, this year nearly 20,000 status holders will be able to provide housing. In other words, my compliments to the municipalities and the housing corporations are really very large. It's very handsome to get these kinds of numbers in this tight housing market. That's what we're gonna keep doing. I myself am pleased that we are making our contribution from the Empire, through intermediate facilities, by doing more on flex homes and by ensuring that attention groups can live together in places. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop asked: if housing is so tight, can we not work a bit more soberly for licence holders? I think that Mr Bisschop and I fully agree that licence holders are entitled to a decent roof over their heads, just like any resident of the Netherlands. But it has to be there soon. The goal is not to make it all more beautiful than necessary. The aim is to add housing to the housing stock in the short term. These will be partly permanent homes and partly flex homes and temporary homes. If I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Kuik said those dumpster apartments for students used to look a little uncomfortable. But that's really different now. They're sober, but they're residential. These can indeed be built much faster due to their factory production. My goal is not austerity in itself. My goal is to provide more temporary homes with a normal state contribution. I think they meet to a reasonable extent the austerity that Mr Bishop is asking for. Then the division between the municipalities. Some comments have been made on this. Shouldn't you ask the rich communities a little more than the poorer municipalities? The division of tasks is based on the number of inhabitants. So we do not distinguish between rich and poor municipalities. It is true that very small municipalities have so few social rental homes that it is almost impossible to do. The province is a supervisor. Within the province you can make agreements about taking over the task of very small municipalities by surrounding municipalities, because ultimately it's just about getting the job done in the region. Perhaps I could remind the Chamber of Mr Ter Haar's report. The room knows that. One of his recommendations is that there should be at least 30% of social rent throughout the Netherlands. This is one of the recommendations that is being drawn up now, but it is obviously up to the next cabinet to see how it intends to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u196	As far as fair distribution is concerned, in the more expensive districts of municipalities, where the land is expensive and where there is less social rent, we see fewer placements, while in the socially weaker districts there are more. Can the Minister give an insight into whether it can be looked at to spread it more fairly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u197	I understand the point of fair distribution very well. I think that this applies to the whole country and that you should also take into account the fact that larger municipalities can handle more than smaller municipalities. This is reflected in the numbers. That's actually in the system. Where in the municipality can you then realize that accommodation? In general, this is the social sector, i.e. in the ownership of housing corporations. That is, of course, very different from one municipality to another. What Mrs. Kuik sketches certainly exists. At the same time, the municipalities themselves have to implement this. This is not part of the policy I can pursue with regard to the municipalities. I can, of course, work with the municipalities to ensure, for example, that there are more mixed districts. I also talk about this with municipalities, and also with housing corporations, of course. Giving them room for manoeuvre in the appropriate allocation, and so on, is a way of solving this issue. I would like to comment a little more precisely on this task. I just said something about it. We have actually said: we have to meet the targets and, on top of that, we would have to cover 1,500 more people this year in terms of the targets. You'll have to keep doing that in the first half of 2022. Now we already saw in November that the municipalities have managed to do really much more than would be achieved if you hadn't done something extra first. I think we'd have done around 1,900 in November, but I think we're over 2,300 now. A little more needs to be achieved in December. December is usually a good month for housing, so we know from experience. So I hope we can house between 2,500 and 2,700 people in December. For the first half of 2022 there is still a 10 000 and a 4 000 deficit. In other words, for the first half of next year there will be 14,000. That requires a lot of municipalities and at the same time it can be achieved if we see how things are going. There's a lot of ways to do that. So that goes through regular outflow to social housing. Or that can be done by the use of hotel and accommodation arrangements "on the way to," so it is the temporary accommodation of people. Or it could go through those so-called intermediate facilities or those flex houses. We have made additional funds available for this, the first tranche of which has been allocated to 13 municipalities this week. We also have Mr Koerhuis's amendment, which makes additional money available for the construction of flex houses for the housing of status holders and other attention groups. Moreover, of course, my ministry will always look at how we can use additional financial resources next year and the following year, precisely to support municipalities in this task. Because the stakes are very good, but this has to go on to really catch up. So we don't do that from some kind of ivory tower of BZK. We really do this in very close consultation with other ministries of course with JenV, but also with SZW, because it is also about people's integration with the VNG and with the IPO. So we try to help the municipalities in all kinds of ways. We are doing it, not to mention, also with Aedes, to involve the housing corporations very closely. In doing so, we try to act in line with the Ter Haar report. The title of that report is "A Home for All." That is precisely what this is about: try to find a combination; try not to pursue one policy on one focus group and the other policy on the other focus group, but do it in full. The National Real Estate Company is even involved. I have just outlined that, fortunately, we have already been able to take a first step in this. Then regionally about getting to work on the intermediate services. As I said, there is a great deal of interest in this from the municipalities and the region. I think we've taken the first step in that now. I think that it can really get bigger when that starts, and if the National Real Estate Company can also play a role in this by helping to find the right locations. They can just put a little more mass in the bowl. I think that precisely those mixed projects, with which you can realize temporary homes more quickly and with which you can house different attention groups, a bit depending on which municipality and which region it is, one region has a shortage of student housing and the other has a shortage of housing for migrant workers, so it changes a bit per region of course being very good for the local, social support. Because it also helps the people in that congregation. Then the image is not: people are coming in, but it doesn't help us. No, because it is relevant for both target groups. I also note the reactions of the municipalities and the registrations we have just seen that there is a lot of enthusiasm for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u198	That sounds really good. I am curious to know what period this is going to take place, because of course we are also dealing with peaks that Ter Apel has to deal with. That's because there's no flow. So it would be very nice if that would be in the short term, so that the pressure would get a little rid of it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u199	The Secretary of State will certainly be addressing Ter Apel as well. But indeed, we all know that the overcrowded azc's and the situation in Ter Apel really need to be put to an end. I talked to the mayor about that, too. It actually helps the whole system if we can catch up with those delays, and the faster you can realize that kind of temporary facilities, the faster that clot actually gets out of that system. I'm very aware of that. So that's absolutely a motive to do this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u200	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u201	I'm glad to hear this. I wonder, if we highlight this point, what view do we have on this? Is temporary housing also a temporary measure, as we are in a temporary crisis? Or is this the way we in the Netherlands will have to relate to status holders, even if it turns out in the future, if we can counteract the housing shortage, that it is again possible to simply get a home in the foreseeable future? I wonder whether the Minister already has an answer to that, or whether she can reflect on this, because it is an important point that we are also going to expand widely. I'm just trying to make sure it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u202	The temporary facilities are temporary, but how temporarily varies a bit per project. You have temporary facilities for five years, but you also have temporary facilities for fifteen years. So that depends very much on the location and what can happen to that location in the long run. I think it's necessary as long as the cut on the housing market continues. We've had experts look into how to catch up. They say: for this delay of about 1 million homes must be built over a period of nine to ten years; you will need that time and you will have to continue to build up at that time. That's gonna end too. At some point it should be possible to balance that housing market. Then, of course, you must have taken sufficient account of which groups are moving in that housing market. I assume, but I do not know of course, that the Netherlands will continue to receive people from countries because they are unsafe in their own country. So I assume that in ten years' time we will also have to deal with immigration of status holders. I hope that we will have a system and a housing market that works so well that we will have a debate here on temporary facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u203	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u204	Yes. I think I've said a few things about the flex houses, the temporary homes. I thought it was Mr Valstar who asked: is there really a roadmap for these temporary homes? I have already referred to the drafting of the Koerhuis amendment. There will, of course, be a roadmap for spending that money, just as we have now been able to approve a number of projects with this first tranche. But the roadmap actually fits in with a broader plan. That's actually a housing plan and a housing plan. What I just outlined is the roadmap we have for achieving the goals and catching up. This is part of it. That way I try to deal with the resources we have available for temporary living and flexible living. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about this. So it is also a question of drawing up Mr Koerhuis's amendment. And specifically the social rentals. I thought Mr Van Dijk said that more attention should be paid to this. Indeed, a lot of social housing needs to be built. Fortunately, we have been able to make good agreements on this in recent years. With Aedes and VNG, I have agreed that we will build 150,000 social rental homes in the coming years and that there will be 10,000 flex homes over the next two years, based on the agreements I could make through the discount on the landlord's tax. That is not the end of the matter. I hope that I have prepared a number of things for the next cabinet, but I am, of course, waiting for a result. I am also very curious to see what ambitions there are. But that is why, for example, I mentioned the 30% social rent. That's a recommendation from Ter Haar. I think that's what this is all about, besides looking more specifically at how to give housing corporations even more space to build. They've really taken a step. They're realizing a lot more social rentals now than a few years ago. But it's not enough. I think the housing corporations think so, too. They've got a big job to do. They need to build, sustain and maintain their homes. Anyway, they're a lot better off than they were a few years ago. The landlord's tax has been significantly reduced since Princess Day. Let's see what the new coalition has in store for that. I don't know. I'm gonna have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u205	I am just looking at Mr Van Baarle to see if this is his moment for an interruption. It looked a little threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u206	Mr President, I am very sweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u207	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u208	One of the concerns expressed by Aedes, among others, is that social housing is being built just below the liberalisation limit, in an overpriced class which is not eligible for housing for the attention groups. What does the Minister think of this concern? And to what extent does the Minister, also with the incentives from the Empire, send that social housing actually ends up in the affordable class, in which the people who deserve attention can also be housed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u209	That is, of course, a very important point. For a very large part, it is really up to the municipalities to agree with the housing corporations in their performance plans, which they of course make themselves. But I also told the Chamber that I wanted to make agreements on, for example, the discount on the landlord's tax agreed at Princess Day. I hope to be able to inform the Chamber about this shortly. I'm making those appointments with Aedes, too. You do have segments in the social rent. It is important to know that part of those agreements is that they are appropriate to the task that exists. That task depends on the question we are talking about. It's different in Amsterdam than in Zwolle. It's different in Zwolle than in Weert. So there must always be room for local customization. But I agree with Mr Van Baarle that we should take this signal seriously. This should therefore be reflected in a kind of overarching agreement that I can make with Aedes, and then in the performance agreements that the municipalities themselves make with the housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u210	I'm glad the Minister agrees with the concerns. The question is, of course, when are we actually going to do something about it? The minister says it has to come back in appointments she makes with Aedes. When will these appointments be made? When can we see any of that? It should also be worked out in the discount on the landlord's tax. When are we gonna see some of that? I am therefore looking forward to the concrete result. Because with every construction project that is not sufficiently built in the affordable class, we do not or do not work adequately on the housing of the attention groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u211	I hope to be able to inform the Chamber next week about the 500 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u212	That's good. So, in a broader sense, is the agreement with Aedes to look into this part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u213	I'm referring to my letter, which I hope will be sent next week. I'll do whatever it takes. Then Mr Van Baarle and the rest of the Chamber will be able to decide whether that is to their liking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u214	We wait with excitement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u215	Yes. Mrs Koekkoek talked about creative solutions for housing. Intermediary facilities are an example of such a creative solution, but there is indeed more. You can also look at holiday parks and offices that you can transform so that you can also live there. I am really talking about housing and not about care, which also requires a lot of creativity. The discussions we have in the context of the national board of directors and the provincial board of directors certainly look at other options than traditional housing. That is one of the reasons why I asked the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf to join us, to think along and to list which places and buildings can be made suitable for residential use. So I actually agree with Mrs Koekkoek van Volt. I have already answered the question about the development of the housing permit holders rule. The one about the attention groups ditto. Finally, Mr Van Baarle asked a question about private social housing. Social housing in private ownership does not really count in the distribution of housing. It's a subject I've talked to the Chamber about before. There's a motion called Grinwis I'm looking at. Eventually, this also amounts to a reference to performance agreements, as I have just said to Mr Van Baarle. The performance agreements with the corporations are about the housing of target groups. These private landlords are not part of that. It is a phenomenon we have to look at, because it is ultimately part of the housing stock. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I hope I have answered the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u216	There is an interruption by Mr Jasper van de Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u217	May I ask the Minister one more question? We are talking very much about asylum seekers, refugees, but of course we also have migrant workers. Because of the free movement of workers in Europe, there is simply unlimited admission of migrant workers from Eastern Europe to the Netherlands. There are plenty of them and they also affect this minister's housing market. Does she agree that you should take a balanced look at that, too? If you allow that influx to be unlimited, it also puts pressure on the housing market. And we can see that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u218	I agree with Mr Van Dijk that migrant workers are also one of the focus groups in the housing market. We have received an excellent report from Mr Roemer which puts the finger on the spot. Sometimes immigrant workers are really housed under terrible conditions. We've also seen their problems surrounding corona. There is therefore every reason to pay attention to this group as well. We started from the Ministry with the search for cooperation with municipalities that want to propose solutions, preferably together with employers who hire these migrant workers. After all, we also need these migrant workers very much. Our economy depends on it. I therefore agree with Mr Van Dijk that migrant workers are one of the focus groups. In some places, intermediate facilities could provide a solution for migrant workers and any other attention groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u219	Companies benefit fully from cheap labour from Poland, Hungary and so on. Shouldn't you say to these companies: okay, the moment you bring in migrant workers from Eastern Europe, should you also provide housing? Otherwise, it's gonna be huge clamps. You're right to speak of miserable circumstances. Sixteen people on one floor, you don't want to know. Shouldn't you be forcing companies to take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u220	This goes beyond my portfolio in part, but I really do agree with Mr Van Dijk. Employers who hire migrant workers have a responsibility here. That is why I have said: I would like to use the resources I have available through my ministry in municipalities where employers take responsibility. And then I'm quite willing to help, because they too, of course, suffer from the way the housing market is currently structured. Conversely, if employers don't want to take responsibility, they don't find a partner in me either. Then it has to be another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u221	Mr Markuszower, PVV
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u222	Is the Minister aware that migrant workers from Eastern Europe, for example, not only take away our homes, but also cost the Netherlands a huge amount of money on balance? They cost more than €200,000 throughout their stay in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u223	It's not my expertise, because it's not my wallet either. I still think it's different. Migrant workers are here because they are needed. They are employed in a number of sectors where there are no employees. Again, my point of view is more: what does it do in the housing market and how can we help to solve the bottlenecks that it creates?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u224	The Minister has indicated a few times that it is not her expertise, so it may be a waste of your interruptions, Mr. Markuszower. I thank the Minister for her reply and give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u225	Mr President, thank you. I would first like to congratulate Mr Boulakjar on his maiden speech and his formal entry into the debate in the country's most important Chamber. Mr. Chairman. It's for a reason that I'm standing here with my colleague Ollongren. Accommodation of licence holders and reception of asylum seekers are communicating vessels. This means, in concrete terms, that the considerable amount of authorisation holders staying in the reception for too long has helped to put pressure on the reception for asylum seekers. We saw this coming and therefore early action has been taken, starting with the provincial direction tables. Thanks to the use of parties at these tables, the last period has been around 8,500. This has not been achieved without shelters. From a small-scale location in Tynaarlo to the ups and downs of local government in Beekdaelen, Almere and many other municipalities. Everywhere is and remains tireless at work. I am very grateful to all the congregations that have done so and still do so. However, the reality is that the sites realised are often temporary in nature. Some of the temporary shelters have already been closed. For example, there are a number of defence sites where Afghan evacues have been received. They must be placed elsewhere in the COA shelter. At the beginning of November there were just enough shelters, since then the occupation at the COA has increased. That's why I'm standing here today as a concerned ruler. Mr. Chairman. The problem of day-to-day reception is getting worse, and it remains to be seen whether we can provide a bed for everyone with the right to care in the coming period. We're dealing with a stagnant outflow. In order to cope with this situation, the search for additional shelters continues unabated. In concrete terms, by the end of the year, 2 000 additional reception places will have to be created. They are preferably relatively large locations. These locations not only operate the COA, but also with the help of municipalities and other parties. In recent days there have been frequent consultations with all interested parties. One thing is clear: this is the route that we are going to take together. No one wants asylum seekers to be deprived of shelter by Christmas. This action is in addition to all the initiatives that have been launched. We continue to work on achieving regular care through the contacts that the COA maintains for this purpose. We will continue to work on a plan for the future. I am talking about robust agreements on the capacity of the COA, aimed at stability. And we continue to realise housing options for status holders, for example through hotel and accommodation arrangements. After all, the more status holders flow out, the less reception places for asylum seekers are needed for the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u226	I've seen Mr. Eerdmans rise from my corner of my eye before. And then Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u227	I hear the Secretary of State say, "I'm worried." I kind of see you as a helpless and powerless Secretary of State. 'Cause where's the secretary of state who says "that influx really has to stop"? We can say that Mrs Ollongren is causing the problem, because she doesn't have houses, but we can also point the arrow the other way, to you, because you take care of the influx that prevents the houses from being found. Where is the Secretary of State who not only says that it will be difficult, that it will be a difficult Christmas and, with tears in her eyes, that she will not succeed, but will do something about that influx? 13,000 houses next year is too much. That peak of 40,000 you indicate is too big for the task we have to do with each other. I call you on that. I need a secretary of state in the Netherlands who flies that fist and says: we cannot buy this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u228	I understand Mr Eerdmans' appeal very well. At the same time, I must say that the Netherlands is a member of the European Union and that we are in the European asylum system. By the way, Denmark is also in it, but in a very different way. Mr Eerdmans has been informed of this from me. The fact that the Netherlands is part of the European asylum system means that we must include everyone who enters the Netherlands and applies for asylum in the asylum procedure. Everyone, including someone who turns out to be a safe man after all. As soon as he asks, we must include him in the asylum procedure and therefore provide him with reception. What is important, however, is to speed up the process of determining whether or not a person is licensed. We are working hard on this, so we have fortunately been able to overcome the huge backlog in the IND. In addition, there is another point, namely that often repeated asylum applications are made. That too is a European regulation. We must abide by laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u229	You say, "I have to do this and I have to do it." In the meantime, on the issue of Poland-Lithuania, we see that all kinds of EU rules are possible, including the duration of the asylum and where an asylum seeker has to submit his application. Europe's rules can best be applied. Then where is the Secretary of State who says, "Okay, I'm going to try to put on the map at my Council of Ministers in Europe that opt-out Denmark has. Yes, I'm going to try to lift that Refugee Convention to 2022 instead of 1951." That Secretary of State, I'm looking for him on behalf of JA21. I'm looking for the Secretary of State who's gonna show her fist a little bit more and say, "I'm not gonna keep digging and wetting everywhere and filling holes everywhere for the Minister for Living. No, I'm going to try to limit that influx with everything I can and everything I have." I'm looking for that secretary of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u230	That fist is shown by this Secretary of State in all kinds of conversations we are having, including internationally with European fellow Member States. In the meantime, the situation is that I am now stuck with the European asylum system and the laws and regulations involved. I'm obligated to do this, and I'll do it. I can still shout so cheerful and so tough, but meanwhile that is the system that the Netherlands has committed itself to. The Netherlands wants to protect people who need our protection because they are persecuted or because of war and violence. Those who are not entitled to do so must leave. That's, among other things, thanks to covid, not very easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u231	This is my last one. My Last Post. I'd almost say my last call. So I have to say that you do not tend to think: I have the opportunity to tighten up the rules within the EU, just as it is now happening on the east side around Belarus. Then you don't even have to have that opt-out from Denmark. Even without an opt-out, they show that they can still stay within the 1951 Refugee Convention. So I simply disagree fundamentally when you say that I am tied with my hands behind my back. After all, there are real possibilities. Otherwise, I'm gonna send you my plans one more time. Perhaps you can read them again under the Christmas tree, because there is as much more as possible. That alone would send a signal to the outside world, such as: beware, the Netherlands is getting a bit stricter and more stringent. This instead of: we are going to put some tents or fill some cruise ships.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u232	I have received Mr Eerdmans' nine-step plan. It's seriously being looked at in my ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u233	Can the Secretary of State also indicate when a response to Mr Eerdmans will be received?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u234	Not at the moment, but it won't take months and years. I think that Mr Eerdmans will be contacted at the beginning of the new year. Let's take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u235	See, that's good news for Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u236	We just heard the somewhat formalistic response of the Secretary of State to Mr Eerdmans. Actually, I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. I just got an e-mail. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State would say to these people. I'll do it anonymously. "We, 70 years and 67 years, have wanted to leave the Kanaleneiland in Utrecht for fifteen years. Because you can't live here anymore. Every day we get spit, yelled at and threatened. It's the order of the day. We've been enrolled at WoningNet for 15 years. And then" I won't say the qualification "the status holder, such a handholder, is ahead of". What are you saying to these people? They're just Dutch people over 70 who've been spit on and threatened in their neighborhood for 15 years, but can't leave because status holders keep the houses occupied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u237	It is very easy for Mr Markuszower to say: because status holders keep the house occupied. It is true that there is a housing shortage in the Netherlands. This was discussed in detail by the Minister for the Interior. It is being worked hard to solve that, to ensure that those opportunities exist. That is something the Minister of the Interior is committed to. I am also committed to reducing the nuisance as much as possible and to ensuring that people are not affected by such circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u238	Something else, then. I just mentioned that people from outside who come here, asylum seekers, also cause a lot of misery. Last year, 4,500 felonies. Well, I read it this morning, in my opinion, that the Netherlands used to be able to screen asylum seekers every now and then, to see if they are criminal or dangerous, but that the Netherlands is not doing so now because it would be against privacy legislation. Maybe I misunderstood the message, but maybe the Secretary of State can comment on it. Is that message correct? Can the Secretary of State shed light on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u239	Mr Markuszower has indeed been able to read that in the newspaper. It is true that because of the GDPR it has worked in a way with those data that is not really allowed in that way. But, of course, we are looking at how the police are able to screen properly. I'm sure you will. I think that Mr Markuszower is concerned about a point which concerns us too. But we'll make sure that screening does happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u240	Mr Markuszower, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u241	So that hasn't been solved yet, I understand. Then I ask the Secretary of State: how does the Secretary of State consider the privacy of asylum seekers more important than our national security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u242	Mr Markuszower is now pretending that we are only now starting to think about how to do that. That has been considered for a long time and has been dealt with in a very good way for a long time. You don't have to worry about that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Boulakjar, Mrs Piri and Mr Ceder have asked the question: why is there no good prognosis? Mr Boulakjar asked me whether I did not see the current problem coming and why it took so long to take action. Mrs Piri and Mr Ceder also asked these questions. I understand those questions. My answer is that we have seen it partly coming and have acted on it. The increase in the share of status holders in the COA shelter has been a little longer on the agenda. This has also been the reason to activate the National Regietable Migration and Integration, the LRT, also the provincial direction tables, the PRTs. This approach was agreed with the co-governments in the Implementation Agenda Flexibilisation Asylum Chain, to inform municipalities and provinces sooner and better about issues related to reception, housing and integration. We asked the LRTs and the PRTs to meet again in November 2019 to create additional reception places. We have therefore taken action in good time. The start-up of the LRT was not too bad, but the start-up of the PRTs took a little longer. That's also worked out in the past few months. It is to be praised that the municipalities have indeed shown this acceleration. But I also have to say that, despite this acceleration, the municipalities have not yet succeeded. The Minister of the Interior has also said something about this in order to catch up. But it's getting really good. However, the number of status holders in the shelter is higher than we would like. A total of 12,000 status holders now reside in the shelter, of which more than 7,000 are over 14 weeks. There is fourteen weeks to allow status holders to flow to a municipality. If that deadline is exceeded, this means that there is a delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u243	I understand that it is always difficult to assess the future and how many people come to the Netherlands and ask for asylum. However, I am very concerned when I see that next year's cabinet assumption is that apparently there will be a lot less people than this year, because we see that EUR 128 million is being saved on the COA. Do we not have the same debate again next year, because there is a shortage of reception because there are simply too low numbers of people and no money has been made available for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u244	No, Mr. Chairman. That prediction, that prognosis, is done on the basis of the MPP, the Multi-Year Production Prognosis. It takes place in February and September. Today's prognosis dates back to February. A new prognosis was published in September. This new forecast shows that the February forecast is out of date and that a much larger number of places will be needed and that there will be a larger number of asylum seekers. The Spring paper is working on the fact that the finances that are needed are coming to light and are there. That way it's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u245	After 2015, attention has been paid to how we can ensure that we no longer need crisis relief at times such as after the past year. One of the recommendations was: start thinking about buffer capacity. It's about empty buildings, which you don't think about in times of rest, but when it happens to you and you have a higher influx than usual, you can catch that influx. Then you also retain support, then you don't spread the problems to municipalities and then you don't have a crisis. Has it perhaps been a political choice not to deliver the advice on maintaining buffer capacity? Or was there another reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u246	That has been implemented, only in too small a size. I admit that to Mr Ceder. The Spring Note 2021 allows the COA to maintain a limited number of locations as a buffer in quiet times to be used when it becomes more crowded. But these resources, too, have not been able to solve the current deficit. You can keep buffers, it is wise and wise to have an extra run, but that is only to a certain extent. Suppose the COA could finance an empty building with 300 places in which asylum seekers might enter, but perhaps not or perhaps only for a third, then that would be difficult for a municipality where there is a housing shortage. So yes, the Spring Note 2021 has ensured that the COA has some space, a buffer, to maintain additional locations, but that is limited in scope. It is also a very costly operation, because these buildings must be maintained, heated and there must be staff to guard the buildings. So it's expensive in that respect too, but at some point you just have to think: everything better than we can't take people in. But leaving buildings empty is also very frustrating for the inhabitants of a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u247	I do feel a bit for the Secretary of State's arguments, but if we continue to reason, I actually come to the conclusion that we will always be too late in a crisis. We do not take into account what should actually be kept free for a high inflow, but we do take into account other factors, which will keep the buffer capacity lower when we know that, if we think carefully, that is too little. Do you agree with me that, in terms of buffer capacity, we are never really well prepared for a crisis? And if you agree, are you willing to change that? Otherwise, as Mrs Piri pointed out, we have this debate every year. Because if these are your considerations, we never have enough buffer capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u248	We try to do it in such a way that we are prepared for a crisis, but it depends on how big a crisis is. I think it is very important that there is buffer capacity. So does the COA and the Ministry. But we have to take into account a certain size. If there's 5,000 people at the border tomorrow, then we'll have 5,000 places even if we had buffer capacity. It can't be. We want extra buffer capacity, we have made calculations, but it may also be good to realize that empty buffer capacity costs something of €20,000 per place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u249	Thank you. Mr Van Baarle van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u250	Just building on the point that Mr Ceder rightly made. The Secretary of State indicates that money has been made available in the Spring Note, but I wonder if she can also indicate how much buffer capacity is actually being kept? How many places is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u251	At the moment, there is no buffer capacity at all. On the basis of the February MPP, buffer capacity has been added to the Spring Note. That was also the MPP of September 2020. But it'll be flooded in no time. And right now, there's no buffer capacity at all. In fact, we're a lot short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u252	My question is more as to how much buffer capacity was maintained before it expired. What is normally the buffer capacity held?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u253	In the spring, there were about 32,000 or 32,500 places at the COA. That was about the size of the 500; you should leave it for a while. In the MPP there were some 28,000 people and the buffer capacity is then several thousand places. That space is there in case suddenly there are more or less people. But it came down to about 2,500 places, and that gave the COA every time to catch extra people. Then it ran back and sometimes people came back. It was just the room for manoeuvre that COA needed, but it soon ran out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u254	Mr Boulakjar, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u255	Very briefly, a question about that buffer capacity. The Secretary of State mentioned that maintaining a buffer capacity costs a lot of money compared to quickly creating emergency care. But I think creating emergency care is much more expensive or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u256	I think Mr Boulakjar has misunderstood me when he says that buffer capacity is too expensive compared to emergency care. I didn't say that at all. Maintaining buffer capacity is important in order to have that margin of manoeuvre, but buffer capacity goes up to a certain level and to a certain extent. You can't say: we keep 10,000, 15,000 or 20,000 places free in case we suddenly get a lot of people in. Then you're gonna do the math and you're gonna say, "That's gonna be really expensive." Moreover, I think it is a very important point that buildings are left empty while there is a housing shortage in the Netherlands, for the population of those municipalities is really very acidic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u257	Thank you. Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u258	This statement still provokes me to interrupt. I think this is a very important point, because we see that we need crisis relief with too little buffer capacity. So, with sufficient buffer capacity, we don't have... The microphone went off for a while, but I repeat, Mr. Chairman. This is a very important point, because with enough buffer capacity you do not have a crisis and with too little buffer capacity you have a crisis every year when there is a high inflow. So it's really an important point. I also have a follow-up question to Mr Boulakjar. I am not keen on whether you say that maintaining buffer capacity for the large influx that we are seeing today is more expensive than the crisis relief measures we have seen in recent months and which we may also see in the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u259	No, I'm not saying that at all. Moreover, the difficulty of receiving the influx we are dealing with today is largely due to the fact that we have 12,000 status holders in the care facility. If you have about 4,000 or 5,000 status holders in the shelter who are in that fourteen-week period............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u260	You have two more, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u261	I hear the Secretary of State now say that maintaining sufficient buffer capacity, which means that the country is not being plunged into an emergency care crisis, is cheaper than what we are doing now. So it is not only better, smarter and smarter, but also cheaper. You have to make sure that in the meantime the population doesn't think: why is the building empty? You could come up with creative solutions for that, for example that you house activities that can be transported very quickly. One. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Two. Is that what we're gonna do? Because if we are not going to do that, I suspect it is as I said during my first interruption, namely that it is a kind of political choice rather than a sensible choice. If that's the case, it's fine, but I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u262	I hope that a political choice is also a sensible choice. For a certain number of places calculated according to the MPP by, among other things, the COA, you can say for a certain percentage: that just has to be buffer capacity. The question is, I have the impression that that is playing... how much buffer capacity we need to have. Should we have buffer capacity for a situation where there could be 10,000 people? Or do we need a buffer capacity for a certain percentage of the reception capacity we have? I think the latter is necessary. We would have, but unfortunately that has already been used up because of the situation we are now in with 12,000 status holders and a larger influx. But if we are now back in a normal situation, then we absolutely need a certain percentage of buffer capacity. It would be wonderful, as the Minister for the Interior has said, if you have those flexible or mixed spaces in which migrant workers, asylum seekers or status holders are present and can be exchanged if one is too many or the other. In this way, it is always intended to ensure that you have much more flexibility in the reception capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u263	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u264	Over the last few months, about from the summer, from June, we've seen an increased influx. For this the influx has been extremely much lower for a long time because of all the covid problems. However, the increase last May/June consisted, first of all, of an increase in the number of first asylum applications and then of an increase in the number of members of the family who travel. This was mainly because covid measures were abolished or reduced everywhere. As a result, it was possible to travel again. We have had a period in which there was very, very little talk of travel. We have also, rightly, had an influx of 2,000 Afghan evacuations. They had to be taken care of, too. At the same time, I must also say that because of covid we did not have Dublin possibilities, because everywhere we were asked to test. A motion by Mr Valstar was adopted on this point. The tests were denied. PCR tests were requested everywhere. After a certain period, Dublin people enter the asylum procedure in the Netherlands. There is also the limitation in the outflow of the status holders. That is my final point, but I have already mentioned it a few times. It's caused an increased influx. These are the five factors that are causing us to have a disability and actually have to provide more shelter than we anticipated. We didn't see this coming, but we did act on it. The municipalities have also jumped in on that very well. The geopolitical situation in Belarus and Poland has also contributed to an additional problem, including in reception in the Netherlands. Then I come to Mr Van Baarle's question. He said there was a need to invest heavily in capacity and asked for a faster procedure and decent reception. In 2019, we agreed with the Ministry of Finance on a new lower financial limit for the IND budget. This means: if the job offer is below the 2018 level, it will not be financially processed and the IND will remain at least at the 2018 level. That's the IND's stable funding. I have just said that for the COA, additional resources for reserve capacity were agreed in the spring paper 2020. Over the past two years, the COA has repeatedly asked municipalities and provinces to realize these additional reception places. This has indeed resulted in a limited number of additional places until the summer. But from May, June and July it has been worked very hard. The Minister of the Interior also spoke about this. We are very grateful for that. At the same time, there are also contracts with existing locations. Some contracts were not renewed because the deadline had expired. The municipalities were promised that they would not be renewed by the city council. In such a context, it is very difficult to reserve additional capacity on top of that, in the situation we now have. Because we all need them now. Mr Valstar asked a question about the worst case scenario. Let's say all emergency shelters are dropped. In the Netherlands, the starting point is that everyone with a right to care gets a roof over their head. That is also our starting point. The COA also has the legal task of ensuring this and of accompanying asylum seekers. The current expectation is that the COA will need 42,000 reception sites next year. They should therefore ensure that the reception sites due to expire in the first quarter of 2022 are replaced or renewed. If all temporary reception places were to expire until March 2022, that is Mr Valstar's question, then we will have more than 35,000 reception places. But the COA remains in conversation with municipalities and with the Empire to create new places. Mr Koerhuis had a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u265	He's not in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u266	Oh, that's Mr. Valstar, too. No, now I know. Excuse me. Mr Valstar quoted Mr Koerhuis, that's it. The question was about locations: why does COA take a long time and how exactly is that going to happen? Normally, this is how it works. When a building appears to be suitable for reception, the COA carries out a fireplace to determine whether that location is indeed suitable for that purpose. They do that first on paper and then physically. If a location meets the COA's requirements programme, because that's what there is of course; that's what needs to be done.The COA immediately enters into consultation with the municipalities. However, local government may be involved earlier. Right now, it's very busy. COA's got a lot to look at. Places are offered everywhere, but it is necessary to check whether they are appropriate. From there I come to the situation in Ter Apel. Mrs Kuik asked for that too. That situation isn't right. It's undesirable. The current hustle and bustle in the nightcare in Ter Apel is really not good at all. Therefore, it has the absolute priority to relieve that registration centre in Ter Apel. That's why we need more shelters so quickly. For the people come and are taken, but they also must be removed. It's literally a coming and going there. If they can't go because there are no places in shelters, then you have a bubble that's not good. That is why we are now looking very hard for new, larger reception sites that can be used in the very short term. The Expohal in Assen is very nice that it has become available for example is used to relieve the registration center in Ter Apel. The co-governments were asked, by letter of 19 November last, to continue the search for common foreign locations, as it is called, 'the creation of additional possibilities for registration centres and so-called 'identification and registration streets'. We are therefore busy to ensure that we have a second login location in the shortest possible time where the start of the registration process can be carried out by the parties concerned, so that Ter Apel can also be relieved at that point. In addition, acceleration in the outflow of status holders has been requested. There is regular contact with the mayor of the municipality of Westerwolde, I say to Mrs Kuik, because we are committed to ensuring that in Westerwolde we manage to solve the problems as well as possible, as quickly as possible and as humanely as possible for all parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u267	I hear the Secretary of State say very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u268	In the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u269	In the shortest possible time. When's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u270	That is exactly what I am saying: the shortest possible deadline. It seems very easy: we open a new building somewhere. But that's not how it works. There really must be amenities. There must be identification and registration possibilities. That requires equipment, and that requires people, because those buildings need to be manned. There must also be spaces in which people can stay if they are called upon to give their fingerprints, for example. I was assured by the IND again two days ago that they are really hard at work to ensure that that can happen soon. Everyone knows that we also think that it is very important that Ter Apel should be relieved at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u271	We certainly agree on the latter, because as I said in my contribution: I think Ter Apel is about the most refugee friendly municipality we have in the Netherlands. They have really done a lot to serve, also as a registration centre, for what we in the Netherlands simply have to stick to: people are allowed to apply for asylum here. I think people listening, especially the people in Ter Apel, would like a more specific answer from the Secretary of State. Whatever comes with it, I believe. But is it next week, is it for Christmas or is it for a new cabinet? A little more specific in terms of time, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u272	I specifically asked if it could work before Christmas. Probably not, but free in the first piece of 2022, in January. That's what we're working on, getting the look done. Mrs Piri had another question about the new registration centre. As soon as possible, I told you. Mrs Koekkoek van Volt asked a question about emergency shelters, namely whether the children could go to school there. The children of asylum seekers, like all children in the Netherlands, are entitled to education. We do that for children and young people aged 5 to 18. They have to go to school until they have a starting qualification. Asylum seekers go to school as soon as possible. The EU Reception Directive states that asylum children should receive education in the Netherlands within three months after the application for asylum has been lodged. The municipality is responsible for organising that education. When an emergency shelter is opened, together with the COA and school boards, we will examine how best to organise education there, both primary and secondary education. We have a support organization called LOWAN and is subsidised by the Ministry of Education. That organisation is available to think about with municipalities and education. The ministries of OCW and JenV's departments do so through COA.... have arrangements available to finance the education. In many locations, these emergency shelters, there is education under the really difficult conditions that are currently taking place there: in Groningen, Leeuwarden and Heumensoord. We are rightly grateful that this is organised by the field of education. It is very important that these young people, these children, but also the young adults, can go to school: the young adults to high school and the younger children to elementary school. How that is ultimately organized and at what rate, depends on several factors, such as the number of children and the number of children you will understand. It may be possible for asylum seekers to find a connection with existing facilities, for example with an international switching class. However, it may also be necessary to re-establish amenities. When I visited the emergency shelter in Leeuwarden, I heard that there was a call for support for the primary education of asylum seekers' children. There's been a huge response to that. It was heartwarming that all kinds of people called in to get that education off the ground, even in that place for those kids there. Then there was a question from Mrs Koekkoek about Ihbti in the shelter. This week, I sent the policy response to the WODC investigation into the security of lhbtis and converts in the asylum shelter to the Chamber. It also discusses the way in which the Ceder motion is followed. In the context of that reception, the COA shall look at the specific needs of the person concerned when accompanying vulnerable groups. The COA pays attention to the reception and guidance of lhbti residents by deploying lhbti attention officers and by promoting the expertise of the staff on specific vulnerabilities of people within this target group. As far as guidance for converts and religious leavers is concerned, the promotion of expertise of COA employees remains somewhat behind. Therefore, in 2022 a plan of action will be made to ensure structural attention to awareness and knowledge about vulnerabilities of converts and religious leavers. That gives the COA employees more tools to get the guidance done. The COA also intends to involve more attention officials in the reception and guidance of converts and religious leavers. Minimum standards are also provided for in the reception of lhbtis, converts and religious leavers. The COA also explores the possibilities to include a module that pays more attention to these vulnerabilities during the deployment programme of new employees. So every new COA employee has the same basis. In addition, the COA intends to make the social map more insightful at each COA location. This social map provides an up-to-date and complete overview of organisations and practices in the area of care and well-being. Then they can easily refer and there is a uniform and good local support infrastructure. Then Mrs Koekkoek had another question about the reception of single minors. Since the end of August, both Nidos and the COA have been searching through all available channels for the expansion of amv reception sites. Calls have been made to municipalities, provinces and housing corporations. In addition, COA and Nidos have approached youth care institutions through a written call via Youth Care Netherlands and other industry organisations. Also in that letter of 19 November, which I was just talking about, municipalities and provinces were asked to create ten locations with at least 50 shelters for single minor foreigners. Meanwhile, the COA conducts talks with different municipalities about such reception sites. Moreover, in recent weeks some municipalities have opened amv-locations. Mr Valstar had another question about the shelters occupied by safe people. It was also about the French visa measures. In the letter of 16 November, I discussed the return cooperation and the use of visa measures by France. Your Chamber has declared its content controversial. We checked with France. It appears that France has started to be more rigorous in its assessment of existing conditions. Earlier, they were a bit flexible with those conditions. Especially in cases that did not actually meet the conditions, such as the lack of evidence, they were quite flexible, but they are no longer. The Netherlands does not see any room at all for a more rigorous assessment now, because we have always been very strict about these conditions. This is also reflected in the relatively high rejection rates in the assessment of visa applications for the Netherlands compared to other EU countries. Those rejection rates have been significantly above the average of the EU Member States consularly represented in these countries for some years, i.e. the countries for which a visa is required and, therefore, France. But the question is, of course, how effective it is, because if the visa applications for France fail, they will try through Spain and Italy. They could go up. So you have a bit of a waterbed effect. We must not close our eyes to that either. There are still no planes full of people forced back from France. That is why I am in favour of the visa measures taken by the European Union as a whole. Then you avoid that waterbed effect and the abuse in the sense of: if this doesn't work, then I go there and so on. Because then you all have the strength to get it done, which is ultimately also the intention of the visa policy. Mrs Koekkoek asked if I am familiar with the lists of You're welcome from the municipalities. Through the Landelijke Regieplaat Migration and Integration and the provincial management tables, we are in conversation with all the municipalities in the Netherlands with the emphasis on "all" municipalities in the Netherlands to create reception locations. We need the help and commitment of all Dutch municipalities in this enormous task. Mrs Koekkoek asked for creative solutions. I heard the Minister of the Interior about this. I call the holiday parks and such. Yeah, it does COA. The COA uses holiday parks for the reception of asylum seekers, for example in Duinrell in Wassenaar. Other creative solutions are also constantly being explored. For example, I have opened up the Hotel and Accommodation Scheme. This allows status holders to be temporarily housed in hotels. Locations such as holiday parks and hotels are ideally suited for special target groups, such as amvs and status holders. Mrs Van der Plas asked a question about the Refugee Convention. The 1951 Refugee Convention has just passed. Is that still on the clock? At the request of the cabinet, Mr Donner made an investigation into whether the 1951 Refugee Convention was still up to date. That reconnaissance was completed in 2020. Your Chamber was informed of the results in the letter of 3 July of that year. That letter includes an appreciation of the cabinet. There's no point in putting together this extensive reconnaissance here. Let me quote from Mr Donner's report: 'The 1951 Convention is undoubtedly dated, but it is not outdated and it does not prevent a responsible asylum policy. Much more emphatically, restrictions result from the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), EU law and case law on the Treaty and EU laws and regulations." In the cabinet's response, we have clearly explained why the cabinet agrees with Mr Donner's conclusion that it is less sensible to carry out further research into a possible amendment to the Refugee Convention in order to bring this to an end. As I said, we have the ECHR, the law of the European Union and European laws and regulations, precisely in this area. Mr Donner has also concluded that it is much more useful to focus on European asylum policy. Perhaps it is interesting for Mrs Van der Plas to know that the refugee treaty was amended in 1967 with the New York Protocol. It was decided to do so because the States Parties to this Convention were increasingly opposed to a provision contained in the Convention, namely that it concerned events which had taken place before 1 January 1951. That was in the definition. The 1951 Refugee Convention was about what had happened before. In 1967 it was said that we must bring it to the time. That was the case at the time, because that definition was removed from the Treaty. Mrs Van der Plas asked a question that had already been raised, namely: if you give priority to status holders, will that be at the expense of long-awaited Dutch? Mr Markuszower has just given an example of this. Mrs van der Plas also asked about the control of migratory flows. That's why the cabinet is focusing on a wide range of measures. These include measures to prevent irregular migration and to provide reception and protection in the region. Part of our asylum system is also that people fleeing war, persecution and violence are entitled to protection. I've said that before, and I say that all the time. This follows from international treaties and agreements with which the Netherlands has committed itself. Mr Valstar had another question about the Greek status holders coming to the Netherlands. They have been granted status in Greece, but do not go back to Greece. At least we can't send them back. According to the system we have in Europe, we could send status holders back to the country where they obtained their status. But there was a ruling in July July, July 28, to be precise, from the Council of State. Let me put it nicely, exactly as it is: the Council of State has found a lack of motivation. So the Council of State did not say that the situation of the status holders returning to Greece is contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR, but that I should be more motivated as to why I should not be able to return them. We are therefore also examining the actual circumstances in Greece. I also discussed this with my Greek colleague. In this respect we also have contact with the Germans, because they also have many status holders. With us, the number may be a little smaller, but Germany also has to do with status holders from Greece who come to Germany and who cannot return them on the basis of a ruling from the North Rhine-Westphalia judge, because the reception facilities for a status holder at the location in Greece, with everything that comes into view, would not be good enough. But I continue to urge my Greek colleague, and I have also applied it to the Commission, to Mrs Johansson. The whole system is based on the principle of interstate trust. Because if you can no longer rely on that principle of interstate trust and you cannot send those people back to the place as agreed in European legislation on the basis of the rules we have agreed on in the European Union, then you simply have a problem. That is why I raised it again with Mrs Johansson, the Commissioner, and bilaterally with my Greek colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u273	Thanks for the answer. Do I understand correctly that those Greek status holders, who are reporting here, are going back to the procedure? In short, can they initiate a new procedure here? Or are they being taken in here, hoping that in six months or a year the situation might have improved in Greece, and then the Greeks could be taken back in again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u274	No, they are going back into the asylum procedure. They're asking for asylum again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u275	Isn't there any way to provide this group of people with shelter, but to freeze their procedures and then send them back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u276	These are, among other things, the discussions I have with Mrs Johansson on this subject. But right now, it's not legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u277	Has the Secretary of State arrived a bit at the end of her speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u278	Do you want me to speed up, speed up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u279	No, but just to get an idea...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u280	I've got something else, but that's not that crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u281	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u282	Mrs Piri said that nobody should be taken care of as is happening now, especially not the Afghan people who have been working for the Netherlands. So Mrs Piri asks me about the Afghan evacuations and how the emergency shelter, where an important part of the evacuations are received, relates to the warm welcome we wish to offer. I understand very well the tension that Mrs. Piri is feeling. I've got that kind of tension, too. I can inform Mrs Piri that the IND is really doing everything in its power to clarify these evacuations quickly about their asylum application. In the meantime more than 1,000 evacuates have been processed in the case of 1,200, 1,300 Afghan evacuates.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They have been granted status in the Netherlands. So that's very good. A special unit from the IND took care of that. Two thirds of the group have now received an agreed decision, but that does not prevent them from being received at locations that I do not think are good enough. That is exactly why I call on the municipalities and the provinces to create additional places for the more structural shelter, not emergency shelter. I can't do that without those municipalities, but that's also our huge question: "Please, help us with that; help us with the 2,000 people from Afghanistan, two thirds of whom have already been granted status. Make sure that they are able to stay in normal care, a structural care and not in emergency care." In the meantime, the COA is trying to provide these people with the best possible care at the current locations and is looking with the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs to see if further steps can be taken, for example in the field of education. There is contact with the UAF Refugee Student Foundation, among other things, to support students who may have already had permission to study abroad from Afghanistan, and who already had a place. Mr Valstar had another question about the foreigners who are obliged to leave and who refuse to be tested for covid, etc. That is Mr Valstar's motion. I can only say that I expect your Chamber to be informed about the results in January or February, beginning next year, because we are working on it. Mrs Van der Plas had a question about the DT&V's resources and mentioned that there was a need from the Lower House not to give too much gift to out-of-court asylum seekers. Mrs. Van der Plas came up with the example of that one gentleman's suit. People who are not entitled to stay must leave the Netherlands. It is preferable to do so independently, but in order to encourage and realize this, foreigners can receive support for their departure and reintegration into the country of origin. This support currently includes support for obtaining tickets, replacement travel documents and reimbursement of any costs incurred. In addition, foreigners may also be eligible for additional reintegration support. That is up to €1,800 for an adult. For children €1,000 extra can be received. That support is mainly in kind. In the past this was often given in money. This support is provided by the IOM, the International Organisation for Migration, but also by local NGOs. I hope, therefore, that I can reassure Mrs van der Plas. There is still quite something possible in this area. Then Mr Ceder had another question about the bus drivers. Let me say first of all that we have enormous sympathy and empathy for people who suffer from such incidents in public transport, because it is really terrible. I informed your Chamber yesterday and today and indicated that the safety of passengers and staff must be guaranteed at all times. For my part, we have also given money to this, namely €250,000, to ensure that the bus line Emmen can stay in place. Of this €250,000, €150,000 has been made available by the municipality of Westerwolde. So we're really doing everything we can. I also spoke to the bus drivers myself last summer to hear what it really is like, and to hear the complaints and see what we can do about them. It is also ensured that boas are present when boarding the bus, so that everything can be monitored there as well. We are doing everything we can to ensure that it goes as well as possible, but at the same time I must also point out that it is also a bit of an answer to Mr Ceder's question about mental health that an employer should ensure a safe working environment. The same applies to providing psychosocial assistance to drivers. So I also think that there is a certain responsibility on the part of the employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u283	What happens to those bus drivers is horrible. It's not for nothing that they're doing action. They're done. At the time of this debate, Mr Valstar and I are getting a message in the Chamber. It is really horrible that a bus driver has been robbed this morning and that there is currently an assault by safe-lords at the station. The police are here. It's horrible. The Secretary of State lists measures, but apparently they are insufficient. The bus drivers really say, "We can't take it anymore. We don't want to ride those lines anymore. At least give us extra supervision or give us some other way of safety, because it is not possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u284	I'm sorry to hear this. I'm really sorry. Robbery's terrible, but I think assault is a little bit worse. I can only say to Mr Van Dijk and to your Chamber: we are going straight back to it, and we are really doing our utmost and doing everything we can to ensure that bus drivers are able to do their job in safety. We also talk about it with Qbuzz, with the company, and so on. But I think this is really very disturbing messages. We'll get right on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u285	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u286	That's good. It must then become concrete. I think that the Chamber also wants to know how this is going and that we are rightly very much involved in this. Can the Secretary of State promise to keep us closely informed? She just said, "We're going straight for it." Then what's right away? Will we, for example, receive a letter next week or before Christmas with an update on what exactly has been agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u287	Straight away doesn't mean we're gonna let it go for weeks. I think that's very bad. At least I want to have a good talk before Christmas, talk about it and see what we can do about it. But no one has been kept to the unreasonable. The same applies to bus drivers, and the same applies to the measures we can take. Of course, we can't send an entire police station on the bus. We have to meet with the entrepreneur, together with the bus drivers, together with the COA and also with the chain marines and see what we can do with all of us. Quite a lot of boa bets have been put on it. We have also made a lot of money available. But when I hear this, I think that's just terrible. You're asking for an update for Christmas. You mean for Christmas? 'Cause that's starting on the 18th, I think. For Christmas is the 24th. So I hope we can make some announcements before Christmas, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u288	Yes. We'll be right there with a motion to urge you to get to work. If it's gonna work before Christmas, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u289	Okay, we're gonna do our best. Once again, I regret what Mr Van Dijk has just said. Mr Ceder had another question about the smaller-scale reception. Since mid-June, I have given the municipalities the opportunity to experiment with smaller-scale shelters. In July 2020, I said to the municipalities: we can start experiments with smaller-scale reception, at about ten locations, starting with a size of 150 places, so not 500-600 places. To my disappointment, I must say that no municipality has come up with a concrete proposal. No concrete proposals have therefore been tabled. We are constantly committed to this. If municipalities have no place for 500 people, but for 150, then we and the COA are very willing to go along with it. Unfortunately, no response has been received. Mr Van Baarle spoke about the appeal of RefugeeWork The Netherlands and the Red Cross. They are very concerned about the current situation in the reception locations. I understand and share those concerns. Yesterday I had a conversation with the director of the Red Cross in the Netherlands. The COA is forced, because of the increasing occupation, to accommodate asylum seekers at emergency reception locations. You know that I am not in favour of that either. Those locations have a lower quality level and are less suitable for long-term stays. That is not desirable. Under the present circumstances, it is necessary. Yesterday I heard again from the director of the Red Cross that people are very willing to work and help, even if we have to take people in several locations. The COA is difficult with staff; staff shortages also occur at the COA. The Red Cross is wholeheartedly prepared to provide support. But I have to say that it is right that refugees' work and the Red Cross say that it should be much better because it is not good enough at all. In the meantime, we are trying to make improvements at all locations, also in the light of the colder periods that are coming. I would like to express my thanks and appreciation for the help they provide for RefugeesWork Netherlands and the Red Cross. I can tell you that one thing keeps me doomed as far as emergency shelters are concerned. The people who fled to us because of war and violence are safe in those locations. Well, that's important, isn't it? Mr Van Baarle and Mr Bisschop had questions about investment in capacity, but above all about yojo policy. Mr Bishop made three proposals, particularly on money. Mr Bishop asked: how can we combat this yo-yo policy? In 2019, the Ministry of Finance agreed on a new lower financial limit for the IND budget, in order to cover the fluctuations in the inflow as best as possible. I have already said that if the job offer goes below the level of 2018, it will not be processed financially. In any case, the IND has a stable funding of the level of 2018. For the COA, the reserve capacity was agreed to by the Spring Paper 2021. Mr Bishop's first point was the money. Money at the moment is not so much the issue at the COA. Mr Bishop also mentioned as another point the permanent knowledge centre where all relevant data come together. In the migration chain there is already such a centre where data from all chain partners come together and are processed in reports. This allows us to steer the chain in its entirety and identify bottlenecks. Mr Bishop had the third point to set up the Special Crisis Team, in case the influx is high. The chain partners have crisis structures within their own organisations. There is also a crisis structure in the chain which, if necessary, is supported by the Departmental Crisis Coordination Centre. We are now strengthening that chain-wide crisis structure. The great thing about Mr Bishop's suggestion is that it is actually three points that already exist and have been activated. It is precisely in this situation that we have much use for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u290	That sounds very reassuring, but how is it that things are getting so greedy? The steps needed to achieve an effective and efficient asylum policy simply do not come off the ground. I hear all these finances are neatly arranged, but in a survey by Ernst & Young I read that there is a bottleneck there. The first point I mentioned was an integrated data centre, a permanent institution. The screening indicates: there's something known, there's something known. It's all there, but it takes a lot of effort to connect it to each other. My three points are meant to streamline it further. I am going to table them as a separate motion after all, and I hope that the Secretary of State will accept that as a support in the back with which she wishes to move forward. Then the policy will be further raked, structured and streamlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u291	Robuuster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u292	Yeah, made more robust. Nice word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u293	I am glad that Mr Bishop is making it a little more stringent, because that is indeed what was put forward in that EY report. Things are there, but it needs to be connected much better. That's how we can gain tremendous power. Work is being done to ensure that what EY has advised in the report is implemented. I wrote it in a letter to the Chamber: it didn't happen in one day. It will take at least a year or two to ensure that all the opinions contained in the report are taken into account as important opinions, particularly in these areas. That more robust whole that Mr Bishop wants, but that we want, must come about. This is being worked on with a lot of energy and with a lot of effort. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions put by the Chamber. I hope I've answered all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u294	Thank you. I see that Mrs van der Plas from BBB still has an interruption which I think she has prepared well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u295	Thanks for the heads-up. I'm gonna do homework and get into the treaties. Perhaps that will come back to us in another debate. I do have a question about the aggression. The bus drivers have just been mentioned. But also the Zwolle-Emmen railway line has much to do with increasing aggression. Will the Minister take that with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u296	I'm Secretary of State, but it doesn't matter. I'm standing here on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u297	Yes, on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u298	It is known that there are problems on that line Zwolle-Emmen. I find Mr Van Dijk's question very acute at the moment. He's been acute for a long time, but with what I hear now, he's become extra acute. But it is also very important to get a good look at Zwolle-Emmen. I'm sure we'll take that, but if we do everything at the same time, maybe nothing will come out. I just want to ensure that we get the best possible control of the transport problems and the nuisance caused there. It is simply not possible to do that when travelling in public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u299	Okay, thank you. I would like to return very briefly to something the Secretary of State said earlier in her reply. I said something about controlling the influx of asylum seekers. I got the impression that the Secretary of State thinks we should close the borders. I want to make that right. We also believe, of course, that anyone who comes from a war zone or who lives or is threatened by his family needs shelter and shelter. As far as that was a misunderstanding, I should like to make that quite clear here. We are going to do more for "see where you can take care of the region" to relieve the Netherlands. That was more my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u300	I am glad that Mrs van der Plas has made that clear, but I did not have that misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u301	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. We have arrived at the second term on the side of the Chamber. I suggest we proceed immediately. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for the answers and thanks for the exchange of ideas. Congratulations to Mr Boulakjar for his maiden speech. I don't think we solved the problem today. I do not think we have reached the root of the problem, to be honest. I'm worried about that. Inflow policies and return policies are essential to address adequately the problem of housing shortages around status holders. I must say: we are more moderate than the PVV and FVD. Let me just say that, because that was what this debate was about. But I would also like to add that we are less weak than the VVD. That is also true and there you will find us: JA21, with plans that are feasible and realistic. I'm sorry there's a lot of rhetoric with no force. I think the right-wing voter has been waiting for that for a while. I'd like to say that, Mr. Chairman. I now come to my final offensive with four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a large housing shortage and that waiting lists for social housing are up to 22 years old;]] [[noting that by means of missions from the Empire, municipalities are nevertheless forced to give large numbers of status holders a residence;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the designation of housing for status holders and the associated targets for municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that status holders in the Netherlands are entitled to an indefinite residence permit after five years;]] [[noting that EU Member State grants only temporary residence permits to asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the possibilities of abolishing residence permits for an indefinite period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities are obliged to provide status holders with housing by means of tasks from the Empire;]] [[noting that in those same municipalities people are on the waiting list for years for a social housing;]] [[Whereas people have the right to know what pressure the compulsory housing of status holders places on the available social housing within their municipality;]] [[calls on the government to create a nationwide dashboard which provides insight into the number of social rental homes released each year and how many of them go to status holders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2789]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2788]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2787]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u303	As the very last, very brief, just a request. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make an effort to make an opt-out so that the Netherlands no longer complies with the Asylum Procedure Directive, the Qualifications Directive, the Reception Directive, the Family Reunion Directive and the Return Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2790]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u304	And the Qualifications Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u305	It's in there. He's in the middle of it. Then we fully agree on that. That's good voting advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u306	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u307	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for their answer. Instead of catching real refugees in the region, Rutte and Kaag are bringing in fake refugees. Instead of closing our borders, they make fake deals with unreliable dictators. Instead of making sovereign policies, naive Rutte and Broekers-Knol rely on shady backrooms in Brussels. The open border policy completely destroys the Netherlands and is therefore criminal. Everyone comes in and nobody gets out. The PVV is one of the few parties here in the Lower House that says: borders close to all asylum seekers and borders close to immigrants from Islamic countries. The Netherlands is full, packed even. We don't have enough for our own people anymore. We don't have enough homes, we don't have enough money, we don't have enough infrastructure and we don't have enough space. The helm really needs to change radically. Our borders really need to be closed. That must be done now, because at some point the invasion of the fifth column is unstoppable. Mr. Chairman. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close the Dutch borders for asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2791]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u309	In your speech, I believe you mentioned the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u310	Definitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u311	Okay, then we'll agree on that again. I think there's been an interruption. Is it perhaps a question about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u312	That's right. I always struggle a little with the PVV's motions. This is what I'm wondering. If you close the borders for asylum seekers from Islamic countries, it could also be the Christian teacher from Iran or the homosexual teacher from Iraq. I don't suppose the PVV won't let those people in. Now's my chance to ask. Why do you do that this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u313	Actually, we always take two steps in the motion. It's a motion we've filed before, as the Secretary of State can confirm. We want to close the borders for all asylum seekers, because we do not discriminate. All asylum seekers. And we want to close the borders for all immigrants from Islamic countries. So that could also be knowledge migrants or migrant workers. So we do not necessarily want to close the border for a migrant worker from Eastern Europe, which was mentioned today in this debate. We would like them to work here with employment permits. So indeed, all asylum seekers, without distinction, because, again, we are not going... The Netherlands has already had its share. The region needs to accommodate people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u314	Thank you. It was a question. Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u315	I get that. It's a wonderful explanation. I've heard more wonderful things here tonight. I just want to make it clear, because we also have to vote in favour of these motions. For the PVV this also means that for example simply Christian people who are persecuted in Islamic countries cannot go here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u316	Fortunately, a country like Hungary is close. I think they are prepared to receive Christian refugees from Islamic countries. The PVV says that people who are at risk, wherever in the world, must be taken care of in their region. We very much want people to live in security and freedom, but if people do not come from this region, they do not need to be taken care of in this region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u317	Clear. A new, different question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u318	I just want to make something right. Mr Markuszower says: we do not discriminate. But he does discriminate by tabling a motion with the text 'no asylum seekers from Islamic countries'. If you say "no asylum seekers," it is consistent. But if you say 'no asylum seekers from Islamic countries', then you discriminate, so be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u319	No, I'm being honest. Maybe I didn't put it right, but I actually think I did. We close the borders for all asylum seekers wherever they come from. For immigrants from Islamic countries, "immigrants" and "asylum seekers" are something else we want to close the border. We believe that this is not necessarily a discriminatory measure, but rather a measure that keeps the Netherlands safe. That is the most important thing Members of Parliament should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u320	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering the questions. I would also like to congratulate Mr Boulakjar on his maiden speech, of course. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Aedes suggests that consideration should be given to how social housing in the private sector can also be used for the housing of attention groups;]] [[Whereas there is a serious shortage of social housing;]] [[calls on the government to consider how private stock of social housing can be used for housing attention groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Aedes points to the fact that many social housing units in new construction projects have an initial rent (net) below the liberalisation limit and additional requirements, thus not being assigned to attention groups;]] [[calls on the government to direct within the housing market incentives funds to a larger and effective share of social housing housing in which attention groups can also be housed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Red Cross and Refugee Work indicate that the quality of the (emergency) shelter is inadequate;]] [[noting that this would be caused, inter alia, by lack of medical attention, privacy or well-being;]] [[calls on the Government to implement early improvement measures to improve the quality of emergency care and to report back to the Court before the end of the year, addressing the concerns of the Red Cross and Refugee Work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research into the living conditions of 5,000 asylum seekers shows that the conditions under which refugees are staying in temporary shelters, such as sports and events halls, boats, barracks and tents, fall below the humanitarian threshold;]] [[noting that, according to the refugee organisation, these emergency places are "specially unsuitable" for children;]] [[noting that this would be caused, inter alia, by lack of medical attention, privacy or well-being;]] [[calls on the Government to identify more suitable locations for the reception of refugees as soon as possible and therefore to close emergency reception sites as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2792]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2793]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2794]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2795]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u322	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Boulakjar. I would like to thank Mr Eerdmans, who wanted to clarify his position vis-à-vis other parties. Thank you for that. I would like to ask him if he can add to that with Van Haga, BBB and SGP, because you have to understand that it is sometimes very difficult from the left to see exactly what those positions are like. Sometimes we don't see the forest through the trees anymore. Perhaps you'd like to make an ash. Then we can see how we see it. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the government's response. I have a motion on the miserable situation in Ter Apel. A justified addition by Mrs van der Plas; it is indeed also about the train. In fact, the abuse we heard took place at Emmen's station. So the motion is just about public transport in the area around Ter Apel, Westerwolde and Emmen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there have been too many incidents in public transport around Ter Apel, Zwolle and Emmen, and OP personnel are even at home through violence and intimidation;]] [[noting that many of the incidents are related to the presence or absence of transport tickets;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to sit down with trade unions, transporters, provinces and mayors as soon as possible and to work out solutions with a view to ensuring safety on buses and preventing incidents rather than curing and prioritising financial resources if necessary;]] [[invites the Cabinet to inform the Chamber of the options arising from this by the end of January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Valstar and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2796]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u323	I would like to add, of course, that the Secretary of State said, in our little debate on the interruption, that we should update the developments before Christmas, given the urgency of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u324	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Boulakjar of D66. In fact, I should give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy, but I have not seen him since he spoke. So I don't think it's going to contribute to this debate anymore. I call Mr Boulakjar of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u325	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for their fine words on my maiden speech. Thank you also to the Secretary of State and the Minister for reply. As far as D66 is concerned, we take the real refugees humanely. Once people have a right of residence, we are also trying to organise decent housing. I indicated in my contribution that close cooperation between the Empire and the local authorities is actually crucial. Consensual municipalities also take up their responsibilities. I am again advertising the Baronie region in Brabant, where several municipalities together provide temporary homes. I had asked a number of questions about this, but they have not been answered. Are there more such examples where regional cooperation works well? What more can the Minister do to encourage such cooperation? I had a motion in preparation for an inventory of vacant property, but the Secretary of State and the Minister have already agreed to do so. That makes the motion unnecessary. That saves another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u326	I'd say hold on to that. We're happy about that. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u327	Thank you. I do not quite understand what Mr Van Dijk said about a left-hand block and a right-hand block and that he could not properly place how we are in it. I came to The Hague on 18 March 2021 with the tractor. A day later, the Bureau told me where my place was. That was right there. I'm on the right, but I have no idea why. Anyway, long story short, 'cause my time is running out. During the formation negotiations with Mr Tjeenk Willink, I proposed that parties should be confused. Because I think it's really weird that you have a left and a right block. You're already polarizing. We literally set each other against each other. I always thought that was weird. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u328	It's easier for me to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u329	Yes, I understand that, but I didn't come here to make it easy for Mrs Bergkamp as President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u330	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u331	Anyway, my time, my time. I just want to make one more thing right. I've been talking about Indonesians in my speech. I usually call them Indian Dutch. This was a slip of the pen. So just for the Indian Dutch in the Netherlands: I meant the Indian Dutch. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State, following the Van der Plas motion, has taken stock of which buildings of the government can be made suitable for reception of Afghans or other refugees from war zones;]] [[noting that the State Secretary concludes that some state buildings are not suitable for emergency care;]] [[calls on the Minister of the Interior to evaluate, in the state buildings which prove not suitable for the purpose of Van der Plas motion, whether they can be suitable as temporary housing for students to reduce the housing shortage, so that there is at least a small lighting on that side of the housing market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2797]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u332	I do not have time for the other motion, but I am sure there will be other debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u333	Sure. Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u334	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thanks to the rulers for their response to the questions. For some you might want a little more substance, but I have good hope that the two motions I am about to table can be described as "support policy." This also allows the Chamber to make a clear statement in the direction of the next cabinet period. To clear up a misunderstanding, it is not just about Ernst & Young's screening, it is also about a reflection of the administrative driver in Wind against tide, in which valuable statements have been made regarding the asylum chain. The two motions I am going to table concern the points that we have just raised in the debate on the interruption, albeit slightly different. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an independent screening of the asylum chain concludes that there is currently insufficient flexibility to cope with peaks in the asylum influx;]] [[Whereas a robust and manoeuvrable asylum chain begins with structural investments in implementing organisations within this chain;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify the structural investments needed to achieve a robust and manoeuvrable chain, with a view to scaling up as a result of asylum influx peaks, as recommended in the independent screening, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 March 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2798]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u335	So that actually goes a step further than what the Secretary of State is already doing. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that much of the knowledge of the past on the housing of status holders has been lost or fragmented and is no longer readily available;]] [[noting that the Housing Status Holders Chasing Team recommends the establishment of a knowledge centre;]] [[Whereas sharing of knowledge and experience with regard to the housing of status holders is of great importance both for the purpose of the assignment of housing but also for the creation of local support and good integration of this group into society;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a knowledge centre bringing together knowledge, expertise and good examples on the housing of status holders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2799]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u337	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of me, too, I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions. Mr. Chairman. We had a debate here today entitled 'the housing of status holders' and a number of parties actually gave the impression all the time that the shortage of housing was caused by the reception of refugees in the Netherlands. And I think it would be a good idea to get the facts straight at the end of the debate. Last year, 4.3% of social housing went to refugees. This year, that's 8%. It is also not true that status holders are given priority in the housing market throughout the Netherlands. Of the 352 municipalities, 151 municipalities give urgency to refugees. 201 municipalities don't do that. Today we heard arguments from parties to amend the Refugee Convention, to close the borders and to expel people who have already received asylum. We even heard the plea to make a difference between Dutch. That colleague went home four hours ago, because he apparently found the debate somewhat less interesting for the rest. The housing shortage in the Netherlands is not due to the fact that we offer a safe haven to refugees. Nor would it have been resolved if we closed the borders tomorrow. It is a consequence of the policy that not enough has been done to overcome a decent roof for all Dutch people and anyone who has the right to stay. And I don't think it matters if you became Dutch a month ago or if you were born here or not, because everyone is entitled to a safe home. Finally, Mr President. The most painful thing is that people whose employers this cabinet was, those who served with our soldiers in Afghanistan, for example as an interpreter, are now being welcomed to an unsafe place in the Netherlands with their families. And it's certainly unsafe if you're caught with a thousand men without privacy. That's not how we're supposed to deal with people like this, people who've served for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u339	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Valstar of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my term, I have not yet taken advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Mr Boulakjar on his fine speech. Although we are always dealing with topicality here, with today's news and with next week's events, it appears that there are many generations going over it and that migration has a much longer context and history. You may not expect it directly from the VVD, but I would also like to thank the COA, the IND and the municipalities from this place. Although we believe that it is too high an influx, it is the organisations and the municipalities that are currently able to support it. Mr Van Dijk has just made a motion on behalf of our party. The Secretary of State just said in the debate with Mr Van Dijk that she is doing everything she can. I hope she sees this motion as an incentive to do more. Despite all the measures taken, despite the toolbox available, the nuisance remains unabated. On average, this is more than one incident a day. That's just too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u341	Thank you, Mr. Valstar. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. You have heard Mr Van Dijk submit a motion for a resolution. It is about the point I made in the first term, namely that bus drivers on lines such as line 73 to Ter Apel, but also on the Zwolle-Emmen line, are dealing with intimidation and threats. I have also heard stories that drivers and passengers were shaking on their legs because of the threats and intimidation they were experiencing by safe people, who are not allowed to stay here. It is important that we act against them and that we actually tackle them, but it is also important that these people are safe and feel safe. That is why, together with Mr Valstar, I am under Mr Van Dijk's motion. We need to see with the partners how we make these people feel safe. Mr. Chairman. When I look at Ter Apel and the peak there is now, I see that the Secretary of State and the services are working hard to ensure that there are enough places for Christmas. The municipalities and provinces are already being asked to deliver. Of course, they've known about this for a while. There are municipalities and provinces that have delivered and perhaps there are provinces and municipalities that have delivered a little less. I would like to avoid that the urgency, the pressure, is again so high that there is only then a breakthrough. I hope that these municipalities are going to deliver at the moment, to prevent Ter Apel from having to deal with another one of these peaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of me too, I would like to thank the directors for the answers. I agree with what Mr Piri said: this debate has dealt a great deal with the question of whether you are more entitled to live with a Dutch passport or a Dutch residence permit. I very much hope that this is the last debate on this subject. That shouldn't matter. It doesn't make any sense either, because it doesn't solve the crisis in the housing market. It does not do justice to the value we must attach to fundamental rights and human rights protection. Then I have a few more questions, especially to the Secretary of State. I took up what she quite rightly said, namely that people who are in the shelter are safe in the shelter. It's precisely in that context that I'm a little concerned about the emergency care. I very much appreciate that steps are being taken with regard to attention officials when it comes to Ihbti and converts. At the same time, I read in the answers to written questions about this, and also in the WODC report, that there is not much that can be done by those attention officers about violence at a location or violence in the home. What are we going to do about it? Can we stop everything? Can we really not consider making a distinction, as we are trying to do with families and amvs? I have another question. I heard the Secretary of State say all the municipalities have to contribute. That's what I agree with. But I also mentioned in my speech that we should use the best practices of the municipalities. We need to exchange them with each other, precisely so that we can perhaps see the thresholds and experience them earlier. The question to the Secretary of State is: do we really do that enough? That is also the reason why I mentioned You're welcome, for example, to show that some municipalities are already dealing with this and can do it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u345	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. A number of things have come to the fore. Some things had nothing to do with the debate about the housing of status holders, for example when you are Dutch or not. But this is very often the case when it comes to asylum and migration. I often point out that I do so again, and I would very much like us to talk about people in a more moderate tone. In addition, I keep the adage: treat people as you would like to be treated yourself. I think that leads to very positive results. I've had some answers from the rulers. Thank you for that. I still have one big concern. That is what I mentioned earlier in the interruptions. That's the buffer capacity. If next year it turns out that we are not taking the necessary steps now to achieve sufficient capacity, I do not mean to add part of the buffer capacity, then we will probably have this debate again next year. We're all there. I hope that, as a cabinet, we will also learn from the discussion on this issue and the challenges that exist. I hope that steps can also be taken and that we, as a Chamber, will check this carefully, so that this does not happen. But again, we're all there. I'd like to leave it at that. I thank everyone for the debate. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u347	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. This brings us to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u348	The next item is the second term of office. I would ask the members to take their place again: Mr. Markuszower, Mr. Ceder, Mr. Valstar and Mrs. Kuik. We're gonna start again. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u349	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to answer one more question and comment on the motions that I see in my policy area. Mr Boulakjar had asked another question about regional cooperation for temporary housing. That is indeed a very relevant point. There's this temporary arrangement encouraging housing license holders. So we have now been able to agree with a number of municipalities on financial support for these joint intermediate services. That is precisely where the regional approach is important. I will give further information in the letter to the Court on how we can work with such initiatives and how they can indeed serve as an example for other initiatives. I think that is exactly what Mr Boulakjar pointed out. In addition, we are building a support structure for the municipalities, so that they can benefit from the examples that already exist. Mr Boulakjar also said that he had not tabled a motion that saw an inventory of vacant real estate. Indeed, his interpretation is correct. The National Real Estate Company has already done this inventory, both of buildings and land that are of the National Real Estate Company itself and wider, of other suitable properties in itself. So we make the knowledge and expertise of the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf available. I will come to a motion on this later. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. The first motion, the motion in part No. 2787 by Mr Eerdmans. This calls for a dashboard on which it becomes clear how many social rental homes are released each year and how many of them go to status holders. First of all, I would like to join Mrs Piri in saying in my first term that licence holders are not the cause of the housing shortage. There are many factors that play a part in the current housing shortage. I am very much in favour of the fastest possible accommodation of licence holders, because this is important for integration and because it also creates room for refugees who are still in the asylum procedure. So that accommodation is needed. This also requires a mandate. I think that is an honest way to divide that. For that reason, I simply want to keep that mission. I believe that this can be done very well within the current information available. That doesn't take much more than we're doing right now, so I'm not recommending the motion. Excuse me. I actually have the motion in part number. 2789 dissuade. Sorry, I got two motions mixed up. The first motion, the one in part No. 2787, saw on the dashboard. From the dashboard, I would like to say that the task is transparent and can also be found monthly. I don't want to make an extra dashboard. The task as such, in its system, I do not want to abolish. That is why I do not recommend the motions on the items Nos. 2787 and 2789. I'm sorry for the confusion. Then the motion to part No. Mrs Broekers-Knol will, of course, come back to everything I have missed. It asks to examine how private stock of social housing can be used. I'm willing to investigate that. I would like it to be involved in the drafting of the Grinwis motion. This is a motion which focuses on whether attention groups can be sufficiently spread across the neighbourhoods and whether the municipalities have sufficient instruments. I would like to see how we can involve this private rent and how that could take shape. With that explanation, I'd like to give the judgment room. In the motion in part No. In fact, 2793 by Mr Van Baarle is referred to in the first part as the liberalization limit. I find it difficult to see what is being asked in this motion. I would really like to look into that more closely, and we are actually doing that, because I have also promised this in connection with the Grinwis motion. As long as I don't have that in my mind, I can't admit what's in this motion. That's why I have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 2797 is Mrs. Van der Plas' healthy mind, so to speak. It asks to see if what we have inventoried of state buildings and so on, where they are not suitable for the shelter, could perhaps be made suitable for students. I think in practice we look very often at mixed habitation, through different attention groups. That's consistent with Ter Haar's report. As far as the locations that are inventoried are suitable for housing, I can agree with the direction of thought of the motion. I'm gonna have to take a good look. I would like to make a reservation about the legal frameworks within which the State real estate company, the state aid issues and so on, must also operate. So I can't promise anything, but I'd like to use this explanation to give the motion judgment chamber. Then the motion to part No. 2799. That's the last motion I'm going to say anything about. That is the motion by Mr Bishop asking for a centre of knowledge. That's about that accumulated expertise on status holders' housing. Indeed, we can see that there is a shortage of this expertise in some municipalities. So they need it. On the advice of the accommodation permit holders chasing team, it is Ms Kriens, who has done so, we are working on the development of an appropriate support structure for the municipalities. I can very well imagine that this structure can also have that knowledge function, so that is how I interpret Mr Bishop's motion. So I'd like to give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u350	Then I would like to thank the Minister for her appreciation and for answering a number of questions. There will be a little cleaning first and then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the motions first and then answer a few more questions. First of all, the motion in part No. 2788 by Mr Eerdmans, second motion by Mr Eerdmans. It is about abolishing the residence permit for an indefinite period. That is a motion that may sound nice, but we do not think we should do that. I think it is important to provide people who come here to the Netherlands, who ask for asylum and for protection from war and violence, and who ultimately want to integrate and participate in Dutch society after a period of five years, with a view to the possibility of staying indefinitely in our country. So I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 2790 over an opt-out clause. Mr Eerdmans refers to Denmark. Unfortunately, it can't be anymore. If the Netherlands wanted an opt-out, then we should have done it at the time, years ago, when that was the issue in the European Union. The United Kingdom, then still a member of the European Union, also made an opt-out. Denmark has also done so. But the current EU rules do not offer that possibility, so it is no longer possible. Then the motion to part No. 2791 by Mr Markuszower. Mr Markuszower already knows what I'm going to say. I have often said that the Netherlands receives people seeking asylum because they are fleeing war and violence and that we do not impose restrictions on them by closing the borders. Do you mind if I quote Cato? He said after every debate: Carthaginem esse verdelendam. In other words, Carthage must be destroyed. Perhaps Mr Markuszower is a bit in that spirit. Eventually, Carthage was destroyed, so, yeah, I don't know if he wants to go that way. Then the motion to part No. 2794 by Mr Van Baarle. He wants an investigation to improve emergency care. I will certainly do so in the light of the views of Refugee Work Netherlands and the Red Cross. But I don't want to anticipate that. That's why I advise against this motion. Then there is the Van Baarle motion on part No. 2795. I share the ambition of the motion, but of course I do need the municipalities to do so. So I cannot simply give substance to the motion. They're working on that, too, but I'm gonna have to dissuade her anyway. Then the motion to part No. 2796 on public transport around Ter Apel, Zwolle and Emmen. I share the concern expressed by the motion. I made that clear after Mr Van Dijk reminded me again of what happened today. I informed your Chamber yesterday and today about the issue and indicated that the safety of passengers and staff must be guaranteed at all times. In order to deal effectively with the nuisance in public transport, joint efforts by different parties are needed, while ensuring a safe working environment is primarily an employer's responsibility. In the last part of the operative part, the motion asks me to inform your Chamber of options for improvement. I think that's a very reasonable request. I have just promised you a letter on this matter in the first term. In the first part, however, the way in which the cabinet should come up with these options and that the cabinet should sit down with the trade unions. I don't think that's appropriate. I can say that the chain sailor will be sitting with the unions tomorrow, but I do not think that is appropriate for the cabinet. This really seems to me to be the case with the carriers, who, as employers, have the primary responsibility. For the rest we will certainly do so and we will quickly sit around the table with each other to make sure that we can really banish this. If Mr Van Dijk, Mr Valstar and Mrs Kuik, the authors of the motion, are prepared to give me freedom in the way in which we come to these options, and we will, of course, discuss them as much as possible, and we will inform the Chamber about them, then I can leave the motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u352	Let me take a look at Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u353	I'm sure we'll figure it out. I actually think that the trade unions should be involved, because of their great commitment. Anyway, the Secretary of State asked for some room in there, and I think we'll figure it out. I would just like to mention one small detail. We're gonna change the motion. The word "buses" in the first operative part will be replaced by "public transport" to make it clear that it is also about trains.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u354	You mean the Battle Valley Line. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u355	In any case, you are not advising on the motion in part No. 2796 in this literal form. Mr Jasper van Dijk says he is going to look at the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u356	No. If nothing changes about that motion... I just said the cabinet isn't gonna sit down with the unions. We do have the chain Marine, as I just said. He's already talking to the unions tomorrow. Otherwise, however, we are going to talk to as many people as possible, because we need to come up with good solutions that solve the problem. If that's the case, I can give the motion judgment chamber. I think it would be fine to replace "buses" with "public transport."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u357	I would like to look at Mr Jasper van Dijk to see if he can agree with that interpretation, otherwise we will get a lack of clarity about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u358	Well, that's a question of conscience, isn't it? The three of us are gonna see how we're gonna work this out, but the motion is definitely gonna be put to the vote. I am convinced of the good will of the Secretary of State. We'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u359	I'm assuming we'll hear if anything changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u360	I have clearly indicated the position of the cabinet on that one point. Then there is the Bishop's motion in part No. 2798. If Mr Bishop is prepared to release the hard deadline of 1 March, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. I think it is very good to include this question in the ongoing EY process, but we should be able to do that properly. That might take a little more time, possibly until the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u361	I'm always in favour of a proper trajectory. That was exactly my question. If it's okay for the summer, I don't have a problem with that. Then we'll adjust it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u362	Thank you. Then I can give the motion judgment chamber. There were a few more questions and one comment from Mrs Van der Plas. I'm gonna have to fall back on my old job anyway. I've been chairman of the First Chamber for six years. I can tell Mrs. Van der Plas that in the First Chamber everyone is mixed up. Pretty good, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u363	And what am I supposed to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u364	You should know that, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u365	That's entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u366	That's indeed entrapment. I did not mean, of course, that all Members of Parliament should be confused, but the parties. I was thinking about that later. It would be less easy for the President-in-Office of the Council. But I meant the parties. That's very good, and I think I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u367	I like that very much, I can tell you. It's not such a mess as it's suggested, as if everyone's just sitting around somewhere. No, there's a pick of D66 and there's a pick of VVD or a pick of GroenLinks. They sit together as much as possible, but it is not the case that the government parties are sitting here and there the opposition parties or that is sitting here on the left and there on the right. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u368	That's something to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u369	In context: there are very few motions that are dealt with in the First Chamber. That's maybe two per... That's okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u370	Sorry. The danger that this debate will end...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u371	I'm in. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u372	It's an interesting subject. Does it matter whether BBB sits there and the President of the Chamber should call it BBB or whether BBB sits there and calls the President of the Chamber BBB? I don't think that matters very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u373	In your case, it wouldn't have mattered at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u374	I have two further questions from Mrs Koekkoek van Volt and one from Mr Ceder. Mrs Volt has asked a question about Ihbti. Did I say Mrs. Volt? Oh, sorry! Well, I guess that's going to be... I'm losing my touch. Mrs Koekkoek asked a question about Ihbti. In the event of actual violence, it is necessary to report it. The COA stimulates that. The attention officers also do that. Then it is primarily the criminal justice chain's move. What I meant by "safe" was mostly: safe on the run from war and violence. Another question from Mrs Koekkoek van Volt concerns the exchange of expertise and best practices. That certainly has our attention. This runs partly through the COA but also directly through, for example, the provincial control tables, the VNG and other forms of intergovernmental gremina.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u375	There is a question from Mrs Koekkoek of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u376	To clarify, it was certainly not meant to be a sneer in the sense of "people are still not safe." The point is that there is an eye for safety at the shelter. I understand the need to file a report, but that doesn't change anything in the housing situation. That's what my question was about. I had understood from the WODC report and from the answer to the written questions that nothing can be changed, not even by the attention managers in the azc's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u377	It is considered whether people in a difficult situation can be found a bit safer place or whether people can share a room or something like that if they are both converts. But a separate building for the reception of, for example, lhbti'ers is also contrary to the values of our Dutch society. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u378	Indeed, I read that in the reply. We can argue about that, but I understand the reasoning. But then evil has already been done. Then there has already been violence and then it is dealt with. Can we, despite the fact that there are no separate units possible, do something to really prevent violence? That's what the question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u379	This is being worked very hard, among other things by the attention officers, also by the COA itself in its overall width. Something does not necessarily have to happen if a measure is to be taken to help those vulnerable. No, when one sees that someone is very vulnerable to that background, without anything having happened, it is also taken into account, as far as it is possible, of course, under the circumstances. Mr Ceder's comment on buffer capacity. That is a broad point of attention in the Chamber, and rightly so, because we take it seriously. I was talking about a buffer of 2,500. But it turns out it's about 2,000 we've had so far but it's been used up. Around 20 million is allocated to this buffer, but we agreed that we should review the state of play in the spring note and, with the new data, look at the need for buffering capacity for a debt instrument to re-use the word "robuuster" completely in order to ensure that we really have a serious buffer, given the developments we have seen recently. That brings me to the end of my response to the motions and the answers to the last questions. I hope that I have given an adequate response to what has been asked by the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u380	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the directors for their reply and presence, the MPs and the viewers at home. I would also like to thank the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u381	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. This brings us to the end of this evening in the plenary.
