ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, the MPs and the viewers at home. The next item is the debate on a return regime for Syrian refugees. I would like to agree with the Members that we are doing a maximum of two interruptions in two. The same will apply to the debate with the Secretary of State. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Members of the staff, Chairman. The Netherlands has always been a country that, out of humanity, took care of the fate of war victims worldwide. But the support for the aid we are willing to offer is being structurally undermined. We see how the right of asylum is being abused, how temporary asylum in the Netherlands is being turned into a permanent residence with playful ease and how the massive immigration resulting from it disrupts our social system, makes our shared culture disappear and puts our social life under extreme pressure, not to mention the ever-increasing population growth, which is making our country so full, ever more full. We're pretty much the most densely populated country on Earth by now. In our view, care in the region is always better than care in the Netherlands. It's better for us, but it's better for the people who are looking for shelter. Reception there is cheaper, allowing you to accommodate more people, and culturally the differences are, of course, less large. But if there are refugees coming to the Netherlands, as happened with Syrians in 2015 and 2016, it must always be temporary. Once the situation in the country of origin has improved and conditions allow it, those people must be helped to return. That is precisely why we requested this debate almost two years ago. Because while parts of Syria are now safe and the Syrian government has even invited Syrians to return and rebuild the country, here in the Netherlands we give Syrians who have been given temporary shelter now Dutch passports, so they can stay in our country forever. That is incomprehensible and very unwise. Two years ago, we rang the bell, because then we could have sent almost all of them back. Indeed, in 2015, the largest flow of asylum has started in recent decades. Millions of Syrians, including many non-Syrians, went to Europe. 80,000 of them received a temporary residence permit in the Netherlands. After five years they automatically get a permanent residence permit; this is how our system works. So the Syrians who came here in 2015 all got permanent status last year. Two years ago, when I asked for this debate, the situation that is now taking place could have been avoided. Thanks to CDA and VVD that didn't happen. It's like they don't feel the urgency at all. Every week we wait, hundreds to thousands of permanent residence permits are issued. And now, two years and tens of thousands of permits ahead, this debate is finally scheduled. I am glad that we have now scheduled this debate, but of course it should have been done much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	I am listening to Mr Baudet's speech and I am curious how he sees it. We also have international rules. They're about not sending back refugees who received shelter here if there's another dangerous situation. There is still a regime that has persecuted and tortured people. How does Mr Baudet see it? Is he gonna send those people back to the regime that got them tortured? I don't quite see that clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	Indeed, that was exactly the reason for me to request this debate two years ago. The Syrian regime itself made a warm invitation to people who fled to come back and help build the country. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ayman Soussan stated that in November 2018, and also after that, Assad himself declared this. There are also country reports. The Netherlands also has... That is interesting: one of the reasons for your party to hold this debate for so long was that we had to wait for the country report. Well, that country report was published in July 2019. It states: "Since the Syrian government regained full control of the provinces of Damascus in May 2018, Rif Damascus has virtually disappeared from violence. There have been no shelling." In short, in large parts of Syria peace has simply returned. That is why, for example, Denmark is simply sending people back; that became known two or three weeks ago. So there are plenty of ways to do this in a safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr Baudet spoke of "a warm invitation to come back." It is about the dictator who used poison gas against his own people. I hope that we are critical of people who attack their own people. I'd like a response to that. And then I still have the question of exactly how Mr Baudet sees it, because if you are going to deport people, you must have intensive cooperation with that country. People have been tortured by this regime who fled from it. What indication does Mr Baudet have that all this would be safe again? Because the Secretary of State has also indicated that people really need to fear for their lives. I am therefore curious to see exactly how Mr Baudet sees this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	Of course, there are all kinds of different categories of people from Syria who have come here. A few will have been a political refugee, but a very large part has simply fled because of bombing and has no political involvement and some has deserted. That is a criminal offence in itself in Syria, but it can be bought off. That's $8,000. Also in the country report of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs it says that it costs $8,000 to buy off that offence. These are things that the Netherlands can easily assist in; I will also be tabling motions on this subject later. We're gonna buy that off, and we're gonna help someone come back. There are all kinds of options for that. If it is not possible to arrange this from here, in the Netherlands, I think we should go there, we should fly to Damascus and make a deal. You just need to sit down at the table with someone like that and you need to fix this. There is also something Denmark is doing and we can also look at it. Denmark is just looking at the individual case and if for whatever reason it is really not possible to send someone back to Syria safely, Denmark will talk to countries there in the region to at least help people to go back to the region, but they will not stay in Europe, not in the Netherlands or in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mrs. Kuik, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	Perhaps for the sake of clarification, Denmark has not yet sent back Syrians. Denmark can't do that. It does have some tough talk, but of course there's a tactic behind it. That tactic is that people don't go that way. That's the tactic. But I don't think this is about trusting the government and being able to live up to what you're saying. Denmark has not yet been able to send people back, precisely because of that principle of non-refoulement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	There are countless indicators, I have just mentioned the country report, but I also mentioned statements by the Syrian Government and so on that large parts of Syria are simply safe. The regime or government of Assad wants people to return to help build the country. If there is a category of people who are actually being prosecuted, it is a separate category for which all kinds of solutions can be found, such as the purchase of the service I mentioned there we can assist in or the search for opportunities to make a deal with Assad on an amnesty arrangement. That's what we can do. Thirdly, and finally, there is the possibility of having talks or negotiations in the region, so that people can go back there. I also have a final proposal, which I will explain in a moment and for which I also have a motion for a resolution. If all this really does not work out, but then we want a very detailed report from the Secretary of State, from the Government, on why this is not possible; I just really want us to go there and talk to that government, and then we need an amendment to the Immigration Act, so that temporary residence status can be extended and not converted into permanent residence status, so that that return is simply postponed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	I was actually pleased to catch Mr Baudet trusting a Syrian, but the one he trusts is a cruel dictator. Two years ago, Syrians who, after a violent civil war broke out, were invited to come back to Europe and the rest of the world, but they also used poison gas against their own people. And we also know that an estimated 2,000 people have returned to Syria in the last two years and have been arrested and tortured there. Is that what you want the Syrians to return to Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	No. If that is what Mr Kuzu is trying to ask: I am an opponent of torture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Baudet called for these people to return to Syria at the invitation of a cruel dictator. Does he realize that these people when they arrive in Syria are being abused and tortured in Syrian prisons, because they are opponents of the regime he is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	No, that's not the case at all. It is not the case that the 80,000 Syrians who have come to the Netherlands are all political activists who have been armed against Assad. And if that were the case, we would have to scratch behind our ears and seriously wonder whether we find it so pleasant that armed warriors have come to the Netherlands. There are all kinds of reasons why people fled, but one of the reasons is that there was a war at the time. And indeed, I am glad that the Netherlands, partly under the influence of Donald Trump's presidency, seems to have stopped actively undermining the government-Assad and actively stimulating Al-Nusra and other dubious rebel groups. Five years ago, when I was just sitting here, I already argued in the Chamber that order is better than chaos. A change in the political regime in the Middle East has brought very little good, not in Iraq, not in Libya. We have seen in so many states there that it only became more chaotic, that it only got worse after the order there was disturbed and there is a "bad dictator," as Mr Kuzu puts it. I think it is better for the Assad government to stay there and restore order than for an everlasting civil war to come against all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you. Mr Kuzu's second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	I hear an extensive geopolitical exercise by Mr Baudet on the Assad regime...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	... that doesn't touch either side. My question was about the people, about the Syrians who are currently in the Netherlands. If they return to Syria, they will find themselves in an unsafe situation. I know that you have eaten little cheese from international law and from international conventions or from international organisations active in promoting human rights, but they all indicate that Syria is unsafe. We see it in the country report of the Netherlands, we see it in the European Union's report and we see it indicate the UNHCR and human rights organisations: it is not safe in Syria. Then why do you consciously want to send back people of Syrian descent who have left home and have come here, forced to return is also against international law and put their lives at risk, Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	I think this is a classic example of a loaded question. I don't want to put their lives in danger. What Mr Kuzu is saying is the country report: it is not safe, it is not safe. On the contrary. I just quoted a sentence from the July 2019 country report. In parts of Syria it is still very restless, but a large part of Syria is safe. Moreover, the government offered this and said: return, come back. I also said: let us make a distinction between the people. The people who fled bombs and grenades are category one. Those are the apolitical refugees. Two: the people who fled because they refused military service. And three: the people who were actually armed fighters and fought against Assad. Well, those three categories. We must, of course, map all of that. You need to figure that out, you need to look into that, you need to actually look at that. And for that third category you can help organise a shelter in the region. And if that doesn't work either, but then we want a detailed report of it, why it doesn't work out and how big that group is, then we can extend the temporary residence status. But under no circumstances should permanent status be given to these people, who come from Syria and who eventually have to return to Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you. Mr Kuzu, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	My final point, Mr President. Factfree politicians, that is what Mr Baudet is known for. 86 pages of the Secretary of State, of the Dutch Government, explaining in detail that the security situation in Syria is simply not sufficient, so that people cannot return. I would like to mention the Syrian Government's forces; local militias; foreign Shiite militias, including the Lebanese Hezbollah; Russian forces, you are also very much in favour of this, we already know...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	... extremist Islamic groups, IS, HTS; groups bundled under the SNA, the Syrian democratic forces; the YPG. We see the US-led international coalition, Iran...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	...Israel, Turkey. They're all in the middle of a war there. And you dare to say here with dry eyes, and also grinning and smiling...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	Grinning and laughing, President, Mr Baudet is smiling that the situation in Syria is safe. I ask, through you, Chairman, did he fall on the back of his head?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	Yes, a large part of Syria is indeed safe. There are people who just live there. Terraces, cafes, working environments, beaches: all open. Life goes on in large parts of Syria in a normal way. That does not mean that there are not certain areas, certain places, where there is still unrest; I do not deny that either. But a large part is just safe, and that is also evident from the country report. As I have just read, there have been virtually no military violence in Damascus province, and no shelling has taken place. So the order is largely restored, and I hope it recovers even further. I think there is no alternative to the Assad administration, so I think there should be a realpolitik, that we say: we do business with it; that is the authority in that country. And the people who came here to get temporary shelter, we all need to talk to them. We need to look at how can we help you get back? That remains my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u28	You said that a few times. Mrs. Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Baudet seems to know very well what the security situation is in Syria at the moment, so a very simple question: what is the current travel advice of our own Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the whole of Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u30	I suspect that's the same travel advice as the travel advice for France.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u31	I find it very interesting to hear Mr Baudet say 'I suspect', because I just heard him make a speech in which he was absolutely certain of the security situation in Syria. So again: what is the current security situation in Syria, what is the travel advice for the Dutch, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u32	Well, right now it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u33	One more second. Mrs. Koekkoek was not quite finished with her sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u34	Well, I thought I'd help Mr Baudet a little bit. But, Mr. Chairman, please let him answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u35	At the moment, the travel advice for all countries in the world is kind of negative, because we are in a corona hysteria. I certainly wouldn't call it a "pandemic," but I would call it a "hysteria," a global obsession with a flu variant. So I'm guessing that's also true for Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u36	Again, I am surprised that you are so sure of how safe it is in Syria, but absolutely not know what the travel advice for Syria is and what is on the page itself, namely: civil war throughout the country. And that's why it's red.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u37	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u38	I wasn't finished. Then the question to Mr Baudet: why do you want to treat Dutch people in a very different way than Syrian refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u39	I want to treat refugees in a different way than the Dutch, yes. That makes sense, doesn't it? I believe that asylum, if offered, should be temporary and not permanent. I believe that our immigration policy should be aimed at the people we want here, who we can use here, and not at the sadness of the circumstances that people experience in any part of the world. I think you should help people on the ground. I think you should facilitate reception in the region, but I do not think we should go to some sort of quasi-world citizenship in which everyone has the same rights in the Netherlands as everyone else. I believe that Dutch citizenship entails rights and obligations and that we must deal with them very selectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mrs. Koekkoek, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u41	If Mr Baudet wanted to talk about the rights and obligations and the objectives of our asylum procedures, he should have applied for that debate, but he has requested a debate on the return regime for Syrian refugees. Returning means people are going to that country. The travel advice of the Netherlands is currently red. No Dutchman is advised to return to it. Then why Syrian refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u42	I think you can differentiate. Such travel advice, as I said with regard to France, is a very rough, blunt way of looking at countries. I think we can say very well: we are going to see where these people can go; we are going to look, in conversation with the government there, what we can achieve by agreements. If all this really doesn't work out, then we're going to help these people get back to a country in the region. If that doesn't work either, we're going to extend the temporary status, so they're going to have a temporary status for longer, but they're not going to have permanent status, they're not going to have Dutch citizenship. Because that should be reserved for people we select on the basis of qualities and on the basis of a certain necessity, if we believe that there is such a need. I would argue that the residence permit of a person who first receives asylum because of a particular situation in the country, not just silently, gradually, should automatically become permanent. I don't think that's the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr Baudet pretends that it is safe for Syrians to return to the country where there is still a dictator. We know what that dictator has done in recent years. 6.6 million people fled that country and 0.5 million people were killed, killed, killed, killed by this dictator. Mr Baudet pretends that Syrians who fled for good reason can now return safely. But the fact is that research carried out by Amnesty International shows that three-quarters of the people who have returned have been harassed or tortured.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u44	Yes, past achievements do not guarantee the future. Whether or not this report from the past is true, it is absolutely not true that in the future people who will return... 6.6 million is very much. It is completely ridiculous to think that if there were now 6.6 million people returning to Syria, all 6.6 million would end up in prison and all 6.6 million would be assigned a personal executioner. That's God's impossible and totally ridiculous. That's not reality. The reality is that, thank God, fortunately, the government finally has a great deal of control back over that country and that not ISIS, Al-Nusra and so on have very large parts of Syria under control. Of course, since Biden arrived, the situation in the Middle East has become much more unstable. Of course, there is still unrest around the border with Turkey and in other parts. I recognize that, too. But we need to talk to the government. We need to see what reason these people fled from, what region they come from, and whether they can return. Other countries do, too. Denmark is also working on it: how are we going to help these people return? That must be the line of the Dutch government. We must stop letting a temporary residence permit become permanent automatically. We must help as many of these people as possible to return as soon as possible. They have to build their country!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u45	Not for nothing have all the European countries and the Commissioner been very critical of this intention of Denmark, which, as Mrs Kuik said, cannot be put into practice at all, because you cannot allow those people to return. The most important thing is that Mr Baudet walks away from the facts. The facts are that not a fraction of the number of people returning will be in trouble, but that three-quarters of the people who have already returned will be tortured or harassed. You have to face facts. Syria is not a safe country. We have a responsibility to take responsibility for the people who fled for reason and who simply cannot return to Syria. Mr Baudet cannot run away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u46	I would like to say three things about this. One: Denmark would not succeed. Denmark announced two weeks ago that they are going to do this. That is why the timing of this debate is happy in a certain way, even if it is two years too late. That will have to be proved; I think they will succeed. So far there have been all kinds of difficulties, but I think they will succeed and I think it is very good that it is happening. And I think other countries should do the same. That's one. Two: Syria is not a safe country. Well, Israel isn't a safe country either. There are a lot of countries where things really happen in certain places that are unpleasant, dangerous, risky, and so on. But Syria is a very large country and there are large parts of Syria where it is safe, where there are no violence, where the order has been restored, where the Syrian government has regained control. Those are parts that people can go to. It is simply not true that all those 6.6 million people who fled Syria were all armed fighters against the Assad regime. A great deal has simply fled women, children, other people for bombs and grenades; I have already said that. A second part is deserters and you can buy them off. Those are not people who are political enemies of the regime. I met them here in Holland. Those are people who say, "I have no political motives at all, I was a student in Damascus, I was terrified, I had to go into the army, I fled. If there were now a return arrangement and agreements were to be made, I would go back." I know those people. It's just bullshit that they're all armored political opponents. And then there is a third category. Those are the armed or non-armed fighters against Assad. Those are jihadists, they are other people who have manu militants opposed that regime. They have sometimes also come along in those refugee flows. I recognize that that is a separate category...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u48	... but those aren't 6.6 million Syrians. It just isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr. Baudet, there are still some interruptions. I would like to ask whether you can be shorter, because you have already said a lot of things and also repeated a number of things. So I'd like to ask if you could be a little shorter and more concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u50	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u52	I agree with Mr Baudet that return is important, provided that it is safe and careful. I think there is exactly the example of Denmark where it goes wrong. Because that is where the question is whether it is happening carefully and whether it is safe. So the question is: do we do ourselves a service by following that example very easily, or do we run into the light that we can't actually do that? If you quote the country report, on page 74 there is indeed Syria's attitude. But it also states, of course, that the government there, the government, the Assad regime, will not simply facilitate return. In Lebanon we see that people sometimes return there, sometimes under conditions. Sometimes you don't hear anything for six months and then suddenly you get taken and tortured. So it's not without it. That's what the country report says. I think those two are important. You take one part out of it; part of it I can go along with. But that also includes the fact that this care is also important in order to achieve it. Denmark can't do it, so we have to put that care into one. Shouldn't we put that on one in the country report, which comes in the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u53	What we need to put on one side is to limit immigration and the need to make real progress on this. That is of course what we have missed completely at the VVD in the last ten years. They've ruled and under your prime minister they've just broken immigration records every year. Every year more people who came to the Netherlands, while we have all those problems we have, while our country starts to get so full that we just burst out of our joints. This is the first priority. Our first priority is for the Netherlands, for our country, and protecting our country, our people, our identity. The second point is indeed that this needs to be dealt with in an orderly, careful, serious manner. I have a number of specific proposals for this, which I have mentioned a number of times. But I really want to distance myself from the claim that Denmark can't do it. Denmark announced this two and a half weeks ago and, of course, that is not something you can realize tomorrow. Because you have to go there, you have to make agreements, and so on, and so on. But I can do that. Assad is a man who deals with. Assad is a rational government. It's not a heavily religious-driven regime. It's not a genocidal regime. It is not a regime that has a very strong political ideology. It is a regime where there is tolerance towards Christians, towards other minority groups. That is what we need to do to serve the first goal that we should all have: to limit immigration and to send people back who can return.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u54	If there is one person who has destroyed stability in Syria, it is Assad. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of people have been killed. That man does not belong at the negotiating table, but he belongs in the defendant's bank, preferably here in The Hague. But that aside. Mr Baudet first mentions a whole row about immigration. We can always talk about that, sure, and also about how the VVD put that in. But it was just a matter of care and the country report. We have also said together in this Chamber: we want different organisations and bodies to give the best picture of the situation on the ground and to base our judgement on it, because we will help people to return faster but also give a fair picture of security, not only in the country, but also in the region. That's what we're trying to do. But I note that Mr Baudet is selectively shopping from such a country report. I hope that, if we have a substantive discussion on this, he will say: you must indeed consider the other side. I would also point out that Denmark is getting over that very quickly and has no business there. If we do that, we don't have our business either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u55	I advocate customization. I advocate customization, while the VVD wants to wait until the whole country is safe. Turkey is not a completely safe country either. Turkey also has border disputes. Most serious countries have conflicts. Most serious world leaders aren't sweethearts. I'm not saying Assad is some kind of bambi. Of course that's a very serious tough guy. I really do understand that. But in that region... why don't you stand by it? Why don't you come up with an alternative? How good is the alternative to Kaddafi? How good is the alternative to Saddam Hussein? I seriously doubt that. The same applies to Assad in Syria. Thus, the regime there was not in absolute terms, not compared to the Netherlands or Luxembourg, but moderate and orderly for that region. There was tolerance for minorities, also for Christians, people that we should really stand up for here, instead of always subsidising our enemies like ISIS and Al-Nusra, as Rutte has done. I'm not saying it's become some kind of Efteling, but we need to see how we can do it with customization. There are simply large regions of Syria where peace, order and stability have returned. You can make arrangements with that government. If you keep pleading "he's got to be in the dock, he's got to break, he's got to break," that's not exactly a nice opening of the negotiations. I'd say accept reality. Syria is an extremely complex country. This government and this man have the power. It's the only option for an orderly, normal kind of government there, so we have to do business with that. We're gonna have to deal with that. Why don't you put that on the table and make some arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Baudet, you promised me you'd be a little shorter. I understand there are a lot of interruptions, but you've been standing there for almost half an hour, so I'd like to ask you to keep it really shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u57	One time I'm not around enough again, then I'm talking too long. It's never good!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u58	Well, I'm glad you're here. There's a lot of interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u59	Are there any splits, by the way, in the meantime I'm talking here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u60	I listened very carefully to Mr Baudet. He just indicated in reply to Mr Ellemeet that there are several countries currently sending Syrian refugees back. Which "multiple countries" are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u61	So those are countries that are working on it. Apart from Denmark, a number of countries in the region are also discussing this. Some of the people from Syria have come to Europe, but a significant part has also gone to neighbouring countries of Syria: Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and all of them. It's not like we're inventing something completely new right now. This is a continuous process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u62	I am asking because Mr Baudet is now pretending to be some kind of new movement, whereas at the moment only Denmark is doing so. I think it is good for the listeners of this debate to have that clear. I would like to ask a follow-up question. Mr Baudet always quotes a review from 2019, as if it were the most recent information on the security situation in Syria. But this secretary of state had an investigation done last year. There was only one cliff-and-ready answer from that study on Syria. Could he perhaps summarize that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u63	At the moment, the Ministry has indeed given Syria the status "unsafe'. That was the question before. But I'm telling you, that's what happened to the blunt axe. You can now also say about Israel that it is an unsafe country. You can say that about Turkey. If you take as a criterion that armed struggles are taking place somewhere in the territory of such a country, you can therefore declare almost any serious country in the world unsafe. I'm pleading for customization. I say, "Let's see which parts are safe. Where did the people who came from here? Why and why did they come here? What categories can we make? And how can we talk to these people, so they can go back when they can go back?" What I'm facing here is a reluctant room. The Chamber simply says: waiting for country reports, there are shellings, that's tortured. That's just saying "no, no, no." But I want to hear from the Secretary of State: "I've done everything I can. I did this and I did that, and so many thousand people can just go back and want to go back. Of so many thousand people, we've paid off the service, so they can go back now. For so many thousand people, we have provided shelter in the region. Maybe that's where they live. Maybe that's where they live. And for the last category, which really can't go back and for which we really can't come up with anything, we extended the temporary status. For them, we're going to try again in two years." That's the rational approach, isn't it? If your goal is not to sneak around and facilitate mass immigration again, then this is what every rational government of the Netherlands should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u64	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u66	But I think you've already said a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u67	Yes. I shall return to my four solutions. But not until I have repeated that several country reports have appeared. So there is not one, as was just said mistakenly, but there are several. They all report that large parts of Syria are safe. You can check that, too. You can control it by just Google. Look at people's social media accounts in Syria. It is not the case that all of Syria is one large shelter, that all of Syria constantly drive tanks through streets and everyone is shot at all the day. That's just not true. Large parts of Syria are safe. That is the reason why Denmark, as well as other countries, I have already mentioned this, and have to go. We praise that very much and encourage it. So our four points are next. I also mentioned them in the interruptions. First of all... Syrians who can return to the safe parts of Syria, must return. If there is a problem, the Minister or Secretary of State must travel to Damascus with a delegation to make a deal with the government. The Syrian Government itself has repeatedly expressed its desire to see its nationals return. The Syrian Government has also indicated to other parties that military service, if it is an objection, can therefore be bought off at $8,000. This can be read on page 23 of the Syrian thematic ministry report of May 2020. We do not want permanent residence permits anymore, but we want temporary residence permits to be extended if necessary. And we also want to try to house Syrians in the region, as we always advocate. Not asylum seekers from Africa and the Middle East to Europe, but to encourage and facilitate reception in the region. I would very much like to hear how the rest of the Chamber sees it, although I have already been able to derive a little bit from the interruptions. But I am also very curious about the views of the Secretary of State. In the second term, we will come up with motions that give concrete hands and feet to our suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u68	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I've met a lot of very special people in recent years. One of those people is the Syrian entrepreneur Nawaaz. Nawaaz fled from Aleppo to the Netherlands in 2015 and has a nice shop on Schiedamseweg in Rotterdam, Al Malek Sweets. That really is one of the most popular shops in the beautiful Delfshaven. This story of Nawaaz is not on its own. This is one of the hundreds of success stories of Dutch Syrians who came here after the civil war broke out in 2015. Despite their war traumas, the majority of the people went to work here after they arrived in the Netherlands. One learned the language, followed an education or just went to work. I've met Syrian Dutch as ambitious people with a drive for entrepreneurship. They are people who want to mean something to themselves, to their families, to their surroundings and to the country in which they live: the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. We welcomed the Syrian refugees with open arms in the Netherlands, while others called for them not to be admitted. Parties such as the PVV and Forum for Democracy painted these people as foreign invaders and pariahs. They like to be inspired by Denmark's cynical system, where they prefer to see all refugees disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u70	An interruption by Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u71	Was Mr Kuzu's qualification of the positions of my party, the Forum for Democracy, a quote? "Parias"? Where did we ever say that? Where did we ever put it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u72	Well, it is characteristic of the contribution that Mr Baudet has just made here for 45 minutes that these people are simply not welcome here, that they are profiteers, that they are intruders, that they do not hear here and that they should return as soon as possible. I take the qualification for my own account, but that is my own interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u73	I think it's very important to correct that time and time again. The containment of immigration, certainly of uncontrolled immigration, is completely independent of the idea that we have that our national identity can be open to people from distant regions. Anyone who loves the Netherlands and can contribute to our society is equal, is fully part of it and we are going to shape the future together. But that's something completely different. I think you have missed the essence of my speech. We say: the qualification for asylum is how pathetic, pathetic, miserable someone has it in his or her country of origin. Then you may or may not be able to help. But that is a completely different qualification, a completely different criterion, than whether it is someone to give work in the Netherlands and offer permanent residence. That needs to be pulled apart. That has nothing to do with those people who think they're inferior or bad or what you put me in front of things. I really want to distance myself from that, because I am done with that! It is something that has been happening for decades by people like you and people from your previous party, the Labour Party, to smother that immigration debate and to make it impossible to have this conversation. If these people can go back, they want to go back in a lot of cases. We just need to help them with that. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u74	Firstly, I think that the definition of the national identity of the Netherlands by Mr Baudet and my definition are really miles apart. Let me give you an example. People who left their homes in 2015 and came here for a safe return, we are not going to send back to a country that is currently unsafe, according to the ministry report, international organisations and human rights organisations, and where a cruel dictator is very much at home. In recent years, 4.1% of the people who were in the region have voluntarily returned to Syria. 75% of them have been tortured, tortured, etc. If that is the national identity of Mr Baudet, then I will refrain from doing so. My national identity is that we as the Netherlands are a brave country, that we stand up for people in need, that we offer them a safe way and that we let them get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u75	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, the news came out that Denmark is about to deport hundreds of Syrian refugees. Residence permits are withdrawn, rights are taken away, families are pulled apart. This cynical experiment by the Danish government seriously endangers the lives of thousands of people. Meanwhile, several authoritative international organisations, including UNHCR, the European Commission, experts and human rights organisations, have strongly criticised the unscrupulous plans to send people back to unsafe Syria. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she will condemn this unscrupulous decision of the Danish government and vote in favour of the protection of Syrian refugees in the direction of Denmark but also in a wider EU context. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who does not leave voluntarily will be transferred to horrible inhumane temporary employment centres, which the Red Cross calls prisons. That is what Mr Baudet is taking as an example: put those people in prisons where refugees are deprived of their status, their work, their training and their rights. But a European Member State that places people in centres where they are not allowed anything and is de facto obliged to return independently is in breach of the international principle of non-refoulement. Will the Secretary of State watch these people be oppressed by the Danish government? Does the Secretary of State agree with the fact that her European counterpart is circumventing international law? Is the Secretary of State prepared to criticize, address and advocate a yellow card for Denmark in the European context during a subsequent European consultation? Mr. Chairman. The situation in Syria is extremely dangerous due to the many conflicts between the Syrian authorities and various armed groups. It is a geopolitical battlefield, where unfortunately, to this day, a proxy war is being fought. Once crossed the border, Syrians also face the risk of torture, detention and other serious human rights violations. Syrians live in wretched conditions in Syria itself; the vast majority of them below the poverty line defined by the UNHCR. In the meantime, the UN has also warned against famine. This can't be a safe country, can it? Mr. Chairman. In recent answers to parliamentary questions on this subject, the Secretary of State states that the overall security situation remains entirely worrying. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to maintain the current policy as long as the situation in Syria has not actually improved and Syria is not safe for return. My final advice to the Secretary of State is: do not be blackmailed by the extreme right and populist right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you. JA21 is not a supporter of asylum reception in the Netherlands. That is what we say, because asylum seekers should, as far as we are concerned, be taken care of in their own region. As far as we are concerned, everyone who is on the run is entitled to safe accommodation, but there is no rational reason why that accommodation should be on the other side of the world, in our country. Reception in the region is the best option for both logistics and cultural as well as financial. But if you do receive asylum seekers, it should be temporary in our view. After all, as soon as it is safe, there is no longer any reason for care. Then you'll return and help rebuild your country. A country like Denmark, we've talked about it, and we understand that. Meanwhile, several hundred Syrian asylum seekers in Denmark have been told that their temporary residence status is not being extended and that they must return to their country of origin. This is possible because the Danish authorities consider the Syrian regions Damascus and Rif Dimashq, which together account for some 5 million inhabitants, as safe again. I just printed it from Wikipedia: this is Syria. In this corner, these two regions, which is about 10% of the country, account for some 5 million inhabitants, where the Danish authorities say it is safe to stay. That doesn't mean that all of Syria is safe. Why do the Danes think it is justified at least to let people go back there? It is also in line with the UNHCR, which has already sent 100,000 Syrian refugees back to their country of origin. JA21 believes that this example deserves to be followed, because I do not think Denmark is a banana republic, but simply an EU Member State. What is happening there in Denmark, even through a social democratic government, we can do as well. We believe that this is a matter of showing courage and going against the flow of left-wing and subsidised asylum industries. Mr. Chairman. The question is why our Secretary of State doesn't do that, doesn't dare. In response to my questions, received the day before yesterday, she says: yes, I am waiting for a new advice. There's new posts coming up, and a country advice. Why don't you look into the Danish situation? My main question is: have you had contact with your Danish colleague to talk about this? If so, what are their considerations, what is the basis for them and, if so, what was the outcome of that consultation and why do you apparently not share those conclusions? So you're waiting for a new post, this summer, is what we read in the answers. There will be a new assessment of the situation in Syria, which will all take some time. We are going from a phase to a phase, and indeed, if it is up to this Secretary of State, we will not make a new assessment for the time being. In short: a process that doesn't go through the noise barrier and in which it doesn't get out of hand seems to be the main motto. In short, we of JA21 think that we should not delay, that we should not wait any longer, because each day waiting and stalling brings in a new group of Syrians, who are ultimately afraid that we will be able to face a status for an indefinite period of time. Because I understand from your answers that a number of 17,040 have been waiting for an indefinite residence permit for at least four years, so that within a year they will be in possession of that permanent residence permit, for which we want to watch over JA21, also because society cannot bear this burden. That is the fact on which we base ourselves, in many areas. Last month, research conducted by the CBS revealed that half of the Syrians in the Netherlands are now on assistance. Those people come in here and they're actually just going with a one-way ticket to the city assistance. That is not to be justified and is it not social? There's simply no way to work with that. We are not talking about the housing shortage and all kinds of other facilities, but I think the Secretary of State understands and will see that society can no longer afford to house so many newcomers in a decent way. In short, this way, unbridled immigration is detrimental to social cohesion. I will conclude by making the appeal again: Secretary of State, do not hide behind that new message of office, look at Denmark. In this way we hope that we will soon be able to allow many Syrians to return to their country of origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you, Mr President. The pimply rich Gulf States must enjoy themselves for the stupidity of the Rutte Cabinets. Those countries have barely put a finger on their Syrian blood brothers in need. They didn't have to do that either, because Secretary of State Broekers-Knol, the sugar aunt of everyone who calls the word "asylum" and his family members, generously grants residence permits to all those Syrians, 100,000 by now. Almost silently, these temporary residence permits are converted into permanent residence permits and tens of thousands of Syrians, including terrorists, war criminals, spies, jihadists and criminals are even rewarded with a Dutch passport. With all the consequences, Mr. Chairman. Dutch women and young girls have already been raped by those Syrians. Syrians have already committed terrorist attacks in the Netherlands. They've been suspected of a crime three times as many times now. They do get homes, while the ordinary Dutchman suffers from a huge shortage of homes. 70% of them are eating out of our welfare spot, leaving less for the real Dutchman who needs it badly. Mr. Chairman. In fact, the PVV has one key question for the sugar aunt of the Syrians in the Netherlands, for the Secretary of State. What are all those Syrians still doing in the Netherlands? Hundreds of thousands of Syrians have now returned to their own country. It has also been said: countries like Denmark also recognise that Syria is now safe enough and no longer extend residence permits for Syrians. Why doesn't the Netherlands do that? The Secretary of State can send almost 47,000 Syrians straight home anyway. Let those foreign invaders know today that they are going back to Syria tomorrow and that they are going to rebuild their country there. The Secretary of State really has to do that, because they won't leave on their own. Our Secretary of State is pampering and coddling the Syrians in such a way that they would be crazy to want to leave our beautiful country. They're getting houses from the pet queen Broekers-Knol. They get free care and free money. They don't need anything and can do anything, while the ordinary Dutchman has to work hard for it and pay for at least 10 billion euros a year for the insane, culturally suicidal open borders policy of Rutte and his cronies. Mr. Chairman. Last month, a Syrian terrorist suspect was arrested in an azc. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible that the Netherlands cannot even send terrorists back to Syria. What is the Secretary of State doing to our country? Why does the Secretary of State deliberately make our country more unsafe? How many terrorists and war criminals are actually among those 100,000 Syrians? Do you have any idea? You can see what those Syrians have done to their own country. Surely it is not so difficult to imagine what Syrians can do with our country and our inhabitants? Mr. Chairman. Apart from the prosperity that this Syrian wave of immigration is costing our country, and apart from the enormous security problem that this group poses, these Syrians are also creating more Islamization in our country, so they are creating more women's hatred, more hatred of Jews, more hatred of Christians and non-Muslims, more homophobia, greater intolerance, greater danger of cultural suicide and the risk of becoming a minority in our own country. Secretary of State, trooper of the Syrians, don't let all this happen. Do as Denmark: declare Syria safe, send the Syrians back to their own country and close the borders for all asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP. But we're gonna clean up first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. I do not say it quickly, but the debate is quite unopposed. The applicant for the debate wanted to talk about a possible return regime for Syrian refugees. Yeah, there's no chance. I fully support the government's view that this is not a good idea. That's the end of the debate, you might say. Anyway, that's not how it works. The idea must be that if a country is safe, you can return to it. Syria is obviously not safe. That's what countless reports show. And then, as far as my party is concerned, the Netherlands has a duty to take up its fair share of refugees. It is quite simple: people in need deserve protection, people in and out of Syria are in need, so the Netherlands can contribute its fair share. The moment Syria is safe again, we're going to work on returning. That is absolutely not the case now. Denmark would be of the opinion that Syria is safe, and that is what the applicant for the debate, Mr Baudet, has used to pay considerable attention to this for a few hours now. But, Mr President, Denmark, too, does not send Syrians back to Syria at all. That's out of the question. Listen to this quote from Trouw: "The decision of the Danes is controversial. The Danish Immigration Service spoke with a dozen researchers and experts to draw up the report to support that parts of Syria are safe for return. Of the twelve researchers questioned, eleven publicly distanced themselves from the conclusions. Only a general of President Assad's Syrian army still supports the conclusion that it is safe again in the capital." Yeah, fucking hell, that general! I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I think we are in complete agreement. This is, of course, very dangerous. If you, as a Syrian, go back to Syria now, you're just gonna be tracked down by the regime and you're not gonna have a good time in prison. So let's get this over with. A debate on migration policy, on the other hand, is always good. A great deal can be done to improve current policies, for example the improvement of return policy in general. The Secretary of State knows that, too. I always like to debate that with her. Think of the return of people from safe countries such as Tunisia and Morocco. The Secretary of State does not succeed in improving the return policy to those countries. Can she give an update? How is it going with possible visa measures and other sanctions that you can take to improve the return to those countries? You can also improve the procedures and eliminate the delays with the IND. How's that going? Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to topicality, because the spokesmen have undoubtedly seen the very worrying reports about thousands of migrants who are once again travelling on shaky boats towards Europe, to Lampedusa and towards the Spanish enclaves in Morocco. That is what is happening at the moment, and that is very worrying. Has the Secretary of State seen the article in the General Journal of 17 May which states that President Erdogan is putting pressure on the EU by opening the migration crane? He's using the Libya route. Refugees are a toy in the hands of this president. What does the Secretary of State do to stop that? Then you are talking about European asylum and migration policy, which, of course, is working far too poorly at the moment. I would like to receive an update on this point, because we must prevent thousands of people from dying as drowning on the Mediterranean. That is the task we are facing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr President, thank you. When you run from war, violence or persecution, you must find safe places to stay elsewhere. It is known that the VVD sees the reception of refugees primarily in its own region. We think it should take place there. That is the best answer to smuggling mafias who make big money on life-threatening crossings, but it is also the best way to return more quickly when it is safe again and everyone is needed to rebuild the country for a better future. For a densely populated, prosperous country like ours, it is also the way to maintain support in case of emergency in order to accommodate people here and to continue to provide help. If refugees still come to the Netherlands and a residence permit is strengthened, the VVD wants it to be as temporary as possible. We would therefore have preferred to deal here with the legislative proposal that would reduce the temporary residence permit from five to three years, so that you could also look several times at whether a residence permit can be withdrawn or whether there are situations in countries that give rise to consideration. But a majority in this Chamber has unfortunately declared that legislative proposal controversial. That's too bad. Mr. Chairman. Then Syria. Hundreds of thousands of Syrians have fled in recent years. 80,000 of them have come to the Netherlands to apply for asylum since 2013. Many of these people got a temporary stay here and thus a free and safe accommodation. But this stay requires a lot of Dutch society. That has just been said by a number of others. In my group's view, if we want to maintain support for aid to refugees, it is important that status holders return when the country has become safe. But the question of how and when deserves care. Mr. Chairman. It has been a number of years since large groups came here. It's still happening, but the situation is definitely different than it was then. That is why two points are important to us: a better picture of the Syrians coming to the Netherlands and a better picture of Syria and the different regions in Syria. I'll start with the last one. The VVD considers it an important step for people to return to the country of origin or certain parts of it after a temporary residence permit, provided that such a region can actually be regarded as safe. Denmark is now taking a first step, well, "step" could be said to be part or part of Syria. And then it doesn't even work. It's more humming than biting. As far as we are concerned, this may give the Netherlands the opportunity to follow such an example in the next country policy, but we are not there yet. My group is also curious to see to what extent it is possible to give a good assessment of which areas in Syria are and are not safe and whether this also applies to both men and women and children. I would also like to hear whether it is clear what Denmark is basing it on, because you do hear the stories about which have just been mentioned. There are a lot of new spokesmen here. Maybe it is therefore good to talk in general about how country policy works, how it works, what sources are used for it, how comparison with other countries is done, how often something is adjusted and when there is reason to reconsider the assessment of such a country. Could this, in this case in Syria, also be a specific region? It is true that the situation in specific regions is different from that in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u85	I think you're almost at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u86	This is the first point. I have a second point to make after this. This is perfect timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u87	Perfect. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u88	I believe that in the speech of the honourable Member of the VVD he would, in principle, be in favour of it, as we would, if people could go back to Syria. He's got more ifs and buts, if I hear it right, and he's more careful, but he's basically positive about that. Would he be in favour if the Secretary of State, the Dutch Government, called Denmark and said: "Joh, basically a very good plan. We've got some ifs and buts, but can we hang out together? How can we help each other?"? Would he be in favour of that? We can also table a motion for this together, or we can ask it as a promise from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u89	Two aspects. The first was, in part, a compliment, or it was a hoped compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u90	Partly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u91	They are always welcome; I like to collect them. But there's also a kind of assumption, and we're just a little different on that. Your assumption is: it is safe, it will be so, so how can we incorporate that into our country policy here? I've got one step ahead of that. We agree on return, but I can imagine that this must be carefully done, which is in the interest of ensuring that the return is successful. I hope we can agree on that. So Denmark is not going to be able to do it. That's where people are in detention. They are motivated to leave there voluntarily. This is already in breach of all kinds of ECHR rules. There are a lot of complicated aspects to that. I am therefore in favour of asking the Secretary of State what sources Denmark uses. So what information do we need to get a more specific picture of the region in Syria and can we include it in the country's policy? I think that comes in the summer, I saw in answers to questions from JA21. How this information is obtained, I'll leave it to the cabinet. Calling, e-mailing, all kinds of sources; I think it is a combination of different sources that follow country policy. So my question is also whether you can make that regional image even more specific in the various sources.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr Baudet, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u93	My question was a little different. It was not so much how we could get information on what Denmark is planning. My question was how we can help Denmark. Can't we hang out together? Could Mr Wiersma be in favour of this proposal together, or could we try to forge an even wider coalition to call on the Dutch Government to do the following? "Maybe it's very difficult what Denmark wants to do and maybe there are all kinds of hooks and eyes on and all kinds of bears on the road, but call your officeman there and say: can we hang out together, how can we strengthen each other and can we search together for opportunities?" So that's not passively waiting for them to do it, but proactively to see if we can help make it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u94	I'm also trying to put it so proactively towards the Secretary of State. That is also my question, so I am curious about the answers. We share the ideal of return. I hope that it will be done carefully in the case of Denmark, but I also see the reports that this is not the case. Hence my question as to what is needed for us to get the right information and to do it carefully with the right resources, preferably more than in Denmark, so that we can establish a fair and good picture of this, preferably in the next country policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u95	Unfortunately, Mr. Baudet, you've been through your interruptions. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u96	I hear Mr Wiersma say: I hope that Denmark will rely on the right figures and information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u97	Well, I said that a little cynical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mrs Ellemeet has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u99	Okay. That is very good, because I find this either extremely naive and looking away from the facts or cynical. Fortunately, Mr Wiersma has indicated this, because there is, of course, an enormous amount of information about the situation in Syria. Fortunately, we are not the only country to examine it periodically; this is happening in all European countries. Nor is it for nothing that EU Commissioner Johansson has been very critical of Denmark, which is based on facts. I therefore assume that Mr Wiersma fully supports that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u100	I just said "I hope" too. That is what I meant cynically, because I said immediately after that: but I fear that these sources are so limited that I think you will come to that conclusion. That's also the conclusion I'm drawing right now. I can see that, too. But I do have a curiosity. I want to know what this is about, because the situation in Syria is different than before. I believe that we have a duty and a responsibility to each other, including for people who come here in the years to come, to give as accurate and fair a picture as possible of the situation and the safety there. It's also about different people. Sometimes you run from war, sometimes from the regime, sometimes from persecution. We need to make that more fine-meshed. Now I miss that fine-meshed; we don't have that right now. I get that, because we don't have all the intelligence on the floor there in the country. But I do hope that we will be able to get a clearer picture of this in the near future, because that also helps us to separate sense and nonsense from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mrs. Ellemeet, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr Wiersma continued to suggest that it would still be possible for Denmark to rely on good sources and thus make a legitimate choice. I believe that we can remove that fear here, because the European Union has made it quite clear, on the basis of facts and investigations, that what Denmark is proposing is unworkable and undesirable. Not only did the European Union do this; on 13 March the United States, Germany, France, Italy and England made a statement. I do not know if Mr Wiersma is aware of this. In that statement, exactly ten years after the peaceful protests started under the Assad regime against that regime, they say: we support the people, we reject the Assad regime and we also recognise that the situation in Syria is not safe. Does Mr Wiersma agree with this statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u103	We acknowledge that the situation is not safe. I just did, but I think that's also the information from the cabinet. There's no pin in there, I'd say. I'm curious about the next country report. I have some questions about that. I don't think it's wrong for me to ask those questions. I almost get the feeling that this is wrong, but we are therefore having this debate. For part of the Chamber, it's very clear. That actually says: I don't even need sources; I want those people to go back. There is also a part of the Chamber that says: I may not need sources; I do not want those people to go back. I think it's relevant if the situation changes in Syria. And that's what we see; that's what the country report points out. In some parts the government's grip is back, bigger or different. This has all kinds of consequences, in all kinds of areas, but we do not have an adequate picture of it. I think you should look not only at that very large country of Syria, but also at those specific regions. It's supposed to be in a country notice. That is what we have done with Afghanistan, and that is what we have done with Iraq. That's in the interest of a fair story to people who come here. It has already been mentioned: look at the pressure on housing alone, with 27,000 people looking for a home. We must also be honest: if the expectations are that we have neither a fine-meshed picture of the situation in Syria nor a fine-meshed picture of the Syrians themselves, then it will be a difficult issue to keep it sustainable and honest with people. I'm trying to get a handle on that with my questions. They're sincere questions. I have no opinion of it, as some parties here do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u104	I would also like to ask you to communicate a little shorter and more concisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u105	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u106	I think you've already had two interruptions, Mrs Ellemeet. Yeah, excuse me. Everyone has two interruptions in two. There's been an interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u107	I do have one more block, but I do not think that matters to Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u108	No, definitely not. There are two aspects. As a PVV, we think all those Syrians can go back. But the VVD could at least now argue in favour of sending back, for example, spies who are here yesterday, there was a big article in the newspaper about this or terrorists who are here? The Secretary of State is not even able to send back Syrian terrorists who are here. We are talking about sending back, but another point is that we still let Syrians in. There are at least five safe countries between Syria and the Netherlands and yet your VVD and your Secretary of State still bring Syrians to the Netherlands, from safe countries. Could you also highlight these two aspects?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u109	On the first point: in such a country report, attention is also paid to these groups. There are therefore exceptions to this when it comes to terrorists. In the past, our group has also tabled motions for re-evaluation of specific groups. I read in the Sliedrecht newspaper this morning about someone in the neighborhood with such a case of someone who was very close to the regime and who was in pictures of his brother, with guns. Here he walks freely and lives in a neighborhood with people fleeing war and violence. Again, we have requested those reviews. Relatively little came out of that. I'm sorry to hear that, too. I would prefer that we do so as clearly as possible, but we will be sharper on those assessments and also on those reviews, so that we know if there is indeed a war criminal here, but in some cases we know when it might be safe to let someone return. I will devote my next heading to that, and I may be tabling a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u110	I am interrupting you, because I also have a second point. It's not about being sharper on country reports or anything. You're the VVD, the biggest party. The Secretary of State is your party. You can simply table a motion today or support ours to at least send those terrorists back. They don't have to be here at all. You do not have to wait for a country report, a post or whatever we call it. They can just leave now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u111	I used a number of our proposals to make it clear that we agree that we do not want these terrorists here and that there are opportunities to simply... Not only opportunities; I believe that the commitment is aimed at sending them back. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u112	Your second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u113	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u114	I mentioned another point. Syrians are still coming in. They travel through at least five safe countries and yet here they get asylum from the Secretary of State of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u115	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u116	I share that analysis. That's what I started my speech with. There's a whole different flight path for us. I also think we share them: you catch people at the external borders and then we may welcome them at our invitation, but it is not the other way around, where everyone just drops in here. All our efforts are therefore aimed at preventing this and thus at having a completely different system, which often has to be European. Our ideal is therefore very different and far from what it is like now, but you will also hear the debate in the Chamber. We still have some work to do to get a larger part of the Chamber into it. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about assessing an application for asylum in the first instance. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State to what extent that is a full assessment, because that would immediately make it clear whether a status holder would be entitled to a residence permit only on general or sometimes on special individual grounds. This is also important for the question of whether the assessment of Syria as safe, should that ever happen, can also lead to the return of Syrians, or whether a full re-evaluation should be carried out first, at the expense of speed. I'm considering a motion on that point. Finally, Mr President. In the budgetary procedure, my colleague Mr Becker also asked the government to work with like-minded countries to strengthen Schengen and also to identify what is necessary in order to keep a grip on its own borders in the Netherlands in crisis time. How's that going? Returning to a country that may have become safe is an important step, but preventing the migration crisis from happening again is at least as important a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u117	I've been waiting for Mr Wiersma's story. There is something that remains a bit above the market and I would like to ask. Does the VVD colleague agree with me that we cannot send people back to a country where a dictator uses chemical weapons against them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u118	I have made a first interruption on this point with Mr Baudet. The report, in the country report, also states that Syria cannot in any way be seen as a rule of law. That is an integral part of Syria's assessment, and I think that is entirely right. In this case, Assad has the greatest instability on his conscience and has killed hundreds of thousands of people. I told you, he should be in the dock, not at the negotiating table. The opinion of the cabinet, based on the country report and sources, is also that it is not safe. There's another message coming. Well, I'll wait and see. I have questions about that. I don't see the point you're looking for. Perhaps I should add that this kind of situation can, of course, change over time and that we should also be aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u119	Sure. On that last point, I fully agree with Mr Wiersma. Only that situation doesn't seem to have changed at all. It is still the case that in Syria people can be picked up and tortured at random at the moment. And yet you ask questions, such as: can we not discuss with Denmark how they do that? Exactly what clarity about torture and so on do you not have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u120	Now we are going in a direction that can almost lead us to decide here at the end of a meeting whether Syria is a safe country or not. My whole point is that we do not decide that here. I'd say that's unwise. That also destroys what we've set up with each other. We have set up a whole process so that we can rely on the assessments of people and organisations. We have given them the mandate to draw a conclusion on this basis: is it safe or not? But if, based on the information I read in this Chamber, I say "it's safe" or "it's not safe," that doesn't feel comfortable to me. I don't think we should want that with each other either. I do think it is our role to be critical of what information is contained in such a country report. Earlier, I mentioned Afghanistan and Iraq. Sometimes there is reason to include images of specific regions and areas in the assessment. Even if you have specific information about Syria, it doesn't seem weird to me. My question is therefore also what information Denmark has, what information we have and whether we can get a more precise picture of Syria in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u121	The VVD's voice is, I think, crucial for a change of policy. The same applies to the CDA. If you want to get a majority for another immigration policy, especially when it comes to the return of people who have come in here, and who really want to achieve it, then you have to go through with it. Denmark is choosing a very difficult road. We know that. Several parties have now put the right questions to the Secretary of State: Is that possible? And if that's possible, that's good. I think that from this job block, here behind me, everyone prefers to come in to the left, even though they can go back to a safe country or to a safe area. I think we have asked questions about Denmark together, but my question is as follows. Suppose the VVD should choose between granting permanent residence permits or, instead, issuing temporary permits and possibly extending them until the situation is safe again so that people who have arrived here can return. Would that last one be something that appeals to the VVD? Can we work with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u122	Our ideal is that they get a three-year permit and then go back to the country of origin or to a region nearby. That is our commitment nationally and internationally. We also see that this is sometimes quite complicated. What comes closest to that is the bill we have now. In the procedural meeting, but also earlier, we had contact about shortening the five-year period of the licence to three years, after which there is another new moment. I believe that this is important and we agree on it, but we will have to do our best to get the majority of the Chamber to do so, because it has declared this controversial. I'm sorry, just like you. But that was the first step we could have taken here. And I also hope that we can quickly put them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u123	But the status is now: once you are here five years, it is a permanent permit and then "certain time" becomes "uncertain time." People are in fact just Dutch. Do you agree that we can extend it better, if necessary, to the length of years? At least you'll have a stick behind the door. If a region is safe or if shelter is possible in the region, then we can send them back if it comes out in the Netherlands. Is that something that appeals to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u124	I repeat, because it may not be clear how we see it, namely that it is a three-year permit and that you then, ideally, go back to the country of origin or the region, but that you may then submit a repeated application, but of course not at the time when you receive a permanent application. But again, that's in a bill, and I hope we deal with it quickly. As soon as there's a cabinet, maybe we'll get it done soon. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will also speak on behalf of Mrs Piri of the Labour Party. On the early morning of April 4, 2017, the village of Idlib will be bombed.I hope I pronounce it well.Khan Sheikhoun in the Syrian province of Idlib. People in the village soon get cold feet and hands, and a slow heartbeat. Then they get a seizure, foam comes out of their mouths, they throw up and eventually their breathing becomes paralyzed. 89 people get killed and another 541 people get hurt. The survey carried out by the OPCW and the United Nations is unambiguous: dictator Bashar al-Assad is responsible. A year later, on 7 April 2018, the Syrian city of Douma is also hit by a poison gas attack. The number of deaths is estimated to be between 40 and 50. And also this time hundreds of people are injured. They are two of the worst war crimes committed by the Assad regime, but there were many more. Almost half a million people were killed in the Syrian civil war, most of which are attributed to Assad. Six million Syrians, I have already said, have fled the violence, the vast majority of which is taken up in neighbouring countries such as Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. It is known that parties such as the PVV and Forum prefer to turn their backs on Syrian refugees who have managed to escape the violence of Assad. And no, we can't catch everyone in the world fleeing war, and we don't. The Netherlands makes a modest contribution to the reception of people in need. If the situation in the country of origin becomes safer, international law will allow people to look back. Most people want that too; people want to go back to their own country, where they have their roots. But Syria is unsafe and will remain unsafe as long as the Assad regime continues to sway. We know from information from Amnesty, among others, that Syrians who have returned on their own initiative will receive a so-called security check upon return. Despite Assad's promise of forgiveness for opponents of his regime, three-quarters of the returned Syrians are harassed, tortured, imprisoned, forced or arrested in military service. And then we are here in the plenary to have a debate because PVV and Forum are jumping to send thousands of Syrians back into the clutches of Assad. Mr President, I cannot understand with the best will of the world that for some xenophobia goes so far as to act with enthusiasm as an accomplice of a war criminal. The words Mr Baudet used:'reasonable; a man with whom you can do business can make agreements; ensures stability in the region'. I didn't believe my ears! And "Denmark wants it too," I hear yelling. It is not for nothing that Denmark has been targeted by almost all the organisations that understand migration, including the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u127	This calls for a response from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u128	Well, I think the PPV was mentioned in conjunction with the word 'xenophobia'. The PVV and I don't hate anyone at all; certainly not strangers, but nobody at all. We do love the Netherlands and the Dutch very much, and we understand that the whole world cannot live here in the Netherlands. And we also understand that if there are problems in a region very far away and people are fleeing from, indeed, a cruel dictator, they should do so nicely in the region. Because yes, that is their region, and when the problems in that country are over, they can also return to their own country more quickly. Hundreds of thousands of Syrians staying in the region also go back to that country, because it is safer there in some parts of the country...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u129	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u130	Well, my point is that, of course, we can differ on what is the best solution to accommodate refugees. We say: in the region, and not here in the Netherlands. But to put xenophobia on our party and me is far from the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u131	I take this as a long point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u132	I will respond briefly. I've been following the PVV for years, and with me many others, and I see how they stand up to people fleeing war and violence. The vast majority of them are taken care of in the region and some people are taken care of here. That is also our task, our responsibility; that is international solidarity. The PVV just wants to send them back directly, even to unsafe areas. That's where we part ways, very clearly. Mr. Chairman. I have two questions for the Cabinet, to the Secretary of State. Is the Netherlands prepared to fully support the EU Commissioner, Mrs Johansson, in her criticism of Denmark? Is the cabinet also prepared to exert bilateral pressure on Denmark to stop withdrawing Syrian permits? My second question is: is the Netherlands prepared to join the declaration of France, Germany, Italy, England and the United States of America last March, in which they clearly state that Syria is not safe for refugees? I'd like a response. If the government is not prepared to do so, how does that relate to the diplomatic note of 18 September 2020, in which the Netherlands holds Assad's regime liable for war crimes? In short, does the government want to say clearly that we are not abandoning the Syrian refugees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Werf van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Syria, there is currently dictator Assad. He tortures his opponents and uses chemical weapons against civilians. There is a lack of any form of rule of law. People get arrested at random. I can therefore be brief on this. As far as D66 is concerned, it is unacceptable to even consider sending Syrian refugees back. Fortunately, the cabinet agrees with us because it confirmed this position in its letter of June last year. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State that she's still in favour of this. For a country in which the government uses chemical weapons against its own people, in which a ruthless dictator declares all its opponents outlawed, in which the reason for your flight is still in power, refugees should not be sent back to it at all. Can the Secretary of State confirm this? D66 is in favour of a humane and effective migration policy. This means, in concrete terms, that people who are entitled to protection are allowed to stay here and be able to participate quickly, but that also means that people who do not have it will have to leave. People who flee war and violence always deserve a place in the Netherlands. In this case, it means protecting Syrian refugees in the Netherlands from the atrocities of Assad. Let us also be clear about this as a Chamber, because the suggestion that they may have to return is causing a lot of unrest and concern among Syrians in the Netherlands at the moment. It distracts them from integration, education and work, and that is not good for anyone. Finally, Mr President, I would like to return to where it all begins. Because it is still hard for refugees to risk their lives on shaky boats and put their fate in the hands of smugglers in order to get to a safe place. We are pleased that our country can be a safe home for these Syrians, but safe routes to flee are also needed. Both the Netherlands and the EU must continue their efforts in this regard. Can the Secretary of State explain the recent developments at EU level on this issue, including in the context of the new migration pact? Has the Netherlands taken any initiatives on this issue recently? Is the Secretary of State prepared to work with her European colleagues to ensure that this issue is given priority? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u136	That is clear language of D66: people in need have the right to protection, including in the Netherlands. There are parties in the Chamber, and we have just heard their speech, saying: we should stop; the whole right to asylum in the Netherlands is out of date; people need to be taken up in the region, and the Netherlands will never have to receive an asylum seeker again. Is that an unacceptable position for D66 as for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u137	Yes. I think it is quite clear that we are trying to see what we can do here in the Netherlands for people who are entitled to a stay. But I also just made a point about legal migration routes. This means that you are also looking together with countries at what is possible to ensure that people can come to Europe in a safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u138	Sure, that's a whole different story. We can also have a debate on this. However, I am concerned that, for example, the VVD has the view that you should actually abolish the right to asylum in the Netherlands; people should be taken care of in the region. Suppose it is hypothetical that D66 is negotiating with the VVD on this matter, can I assume that Mrs Van der Werf and her party are going to go against that and then say: "No, we are not going to do that, the right to asylum in the Netherlands continues to exist, period"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u139	My colleague, Mr Van Dijk, has heard very clearly what D66 says in this. I'm not going to anticipate any negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you, Mrs Van der Werf. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons van Bij1 for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u141	Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to what is actually happening here today. Nota bene in the centre of Dutch democracy is why we are holding a debate on the return of refugees to dictatorial regimes and unsafe areas. That actually only means that right-wing extremistism in the Netherlands simply does its work successfully. Human rights will be the subject of discussion. There is a debate on the conditions under which people can be returned. It is being discussed whether or not we want to sacrifice people for the xenophobic political agenda of the far right. But what is left of humanity, of our achievements, of democracy, when the basic rights of people, refugees, of security, residence and protection are being called into question again? I really do not need to explain again here that Assad's regime is still guilty of arbitrary arrests, disappearances and torture, that the UNHCR still sees Syria as unsafe because of the widespread human rights violations and the ongoing conflict, but that, according to the principle of non-refoulement, it should not be possible for one person to be sent back to Syria. That has already been made very clear by my colleagues from DENK, the SP and GroenLinks here today. No. My question to this Chamber is: let us look at ourselves in the mirror and ask ourselves to what extent as a parliament we allow the extreme right to dominate the political agenda with debates that really should not be conducted at all, in order to undermine the freedoms, rights and equality that form the basis of this rule of law. I ask the Chamber, don't let it happen, please. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u142	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u143	In fact, I am very much in agreement with Mrs Simons. Sending Syrian refugees back to Syria is ridiculous. I hope that we will soon finish this debate and that the Secretary of State will share it with us. But as a spokesperson, I have been working on the issue of migration for a number of years. That is not easy, I can tell you. I would like to ask Mrs Simons how they are capable of doing that. Because sending people back to Syria is a bad idea, but if a country is safe, for example Tunisia or another country, and someone from that country is applying for asylum in the Netherlands, should your party say they should return?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u144	To Mr Van Dijk's example, I would actually like to answer that we should always look at personal circumstances. A country that is safe from one is not necessarily for the other. I would not like to give a general answer to that, but I would just like to continue to stress that the humanity, the humanity, of people who apply for asylum here must be paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u145	I think that is a very fair answer. A fair, humanitarian asylum policy also requires that. We're looking at the person. Everyone has the right to ask for asylum, but the question is whether BE1 also believes that the Netherlands should at some point be able to say: "One has the right to asylum. The other one has asked for asylum. We have carefully assessed it and we cannot find any grounds on which that person should be granted asylum." Should that person then return according to BE1?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u146	You are actually asking two different questions: admission and return. When returning, of course, the situation also plays a role that has developed in the Netherlands. For example, if there are children in the situation that may have been born here or are rooted here, then of course you will look again at the personal circumstances. This also applies to people seeking asylum from a country that we may say is safe for most people, but perhaps not for this particular person. So the answer remains a bit the same, I'm afraid, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u147	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA. After the first term, we'll suspend for half an hour. Then the Secretary of State will have time to answer the questions. That includes lunch break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been ten years since the war started in Syria. There's still a fight going on. The regime that systematically violates human rights is still in power. A lot of people have fled war and violence. Previously, the Secretary of State also indicated that systematic torture is taking place on a large scale. When I look at the reports, I do not have the impression that a different picture will arise in the short term. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she assesses the situation. When is a country safe and when isn't it? When it comes to migration, as a CDA, we are strict but just. We cannot accommodate everyone who sees a chance here for a better life, also because of our own level of provision, that we want to maintain. And yes, of course it is also important that the own population of a country like Syria is essential to rebuild it. So a good conversation with people, and also with the IOM, is of course crucial. We need to know what it takes when a country is safe again. I ask the Secretary of State how this is organised in a broad sense. But let me be clear. Now and in the future, we are always offering help and protection to refugees who are really in need. That's our moral compass. The principle of non-refoulement is beyond question. Syria is not safe for many people who have fled war and violence. So we don't send them back to a place where explosions, attacks, fighting and torture take place. Most of them can't go back, even if they want to. People sometimes ended up in Syrian prison four times for criticizing Assad's regime before fleeing this regime. I wonder what the story is when the Netherlands sends such a person back to a country where that regime is still in place. Mr. Chairman. For the people who have been here a bit longer, it is of course also an important point that we will really do something with their acquired competences. Because they are not coming to their senses at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Of course, it is important for Syrians to help them rebuild their country, but the situation really does not allow it for the time being. That's sad. But the CDA protects the people who are on the run and cannot return to their country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt. She's the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr. Chairman. We are having this debate today because a number of parties would like to follow the Danish example. This is an example where Syrian refugees are being deported to a country that according to the Dutch ministry is far from safe, a country that is in ruins and we do not know if a revival of IS is lurking. It is a country where returners are at risk of being taken into account by Assad's security forces, with which they are subjected to torture or even worse. In short, it is a country that is still very dangerous. I can therefore be brief on Volt's behalf: no way that we take this seriously at Volt. Mr. Chairman. The fact that there are Member States within our European Union which are now operating so cross-border without shame should scare us all, and certainly not inspire us. Those who study the Danish approach see that in practice Syrian Danes cannot actually be sent back. And what is the Danish solution? Secure Syrians in a hopeless detention center, hoping that they will opt for so-called "voluntary return." There is a word for that, Mr President, namely'smoking out'. Therefore, from Volt the following questions to the Secretary of State. What is your evaluation of your Danish colleague's approach? Have you, by any chance, spoken to your Danish colleague on this subject before and made it clear that you are far from your policy? And if not, could you undertake to do so? Can you promise that refugees in the Netherlands will not suffer the same fate and will not be put under pressure to return so-called "voluntarily" by not extending residence permits? And what does the Secretary of State actually do to ensure that this does not become a standard policy in Europe, as long as it is not already unofficially so? We are already seeing similar situations on the southern borders of the continent, for example, with a refugee camp, a detention centre called Moria, refugee shelter which has been increasingly closed off from the outside world in recent years. Can the Secretary of State undertake that the Danish example is not a preselection of how European migration policy will take shape in the coming years? I ask the same question for the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State provide insight into the method used to write the new statement of office on the security situation in Syria, and the consequences this has for the interpretation of Syria as a safe return country for refugees? And can the Secretary of State guarantee that the message and the Terms of Reference, in line with UNICEF's opinion, contain up-to-date and complete information on the situation of children? Can the Secretary of State therefore provide transparency on the questions submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Terms of Reference of the Secretary of State for Syria? I would also like to mention the problem of monitoring, or rather the lack of monitoring. Can the Secretary of State tell me how the Dutch Government can know that it is safe to return if there is no monitoring at the moment or is possible? Mr. Chairman. While we have been discussing the perverse idea of sending recognised war refugees to a demonstrably unsafe home country for a long time, we are not talking about countries such as Morocco and Turkey, which in recent weeks have been using people of flesh and blood as a means of blackmail against Europe by opening up borders. As far as Volt is concerned, it would be much more useful to discuss this with each other. Because how do we prevent people from being abused in a power struggle between our continent and neighbouring countries for whatever reason? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, Mr President. Volt likes to hold the debate on humane return arrangements for processed asylum seekers who do not have the right to stay, but under no circumstances about the back of the Syrian refugee. For no time should we frighten people into being sent back. These people are completely unrelated. We're talking about war refugees here. Together, we have a moral duty to give them a safe home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u151	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:35 p.m. That'll include lunch break.
