ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u1	Then we will continue the debate on a return regime for Syrian refugees. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security for her answer in the first term. I would like to meet with Members, as announced earlier: two interruptions in two, short and concise. Then anyone can come to their senses. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today there is a debate with your Chamber on Syria's country-related asylum policy, also following a recent adjustment of Syria's asylum policy in Denmark. Before I answer your specific questions, I shall first deal with the development of country policy in general. For important countries of origin, country-related asylum policy is being developed. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' official messages form an important basis for the country-specific asylum policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the capacity to prepare about 15 official messages per year. An official message shall contain factual and objective country information. The notice itself contains no conclusions on foreign policy. On the basis of the statement of office and other relevant sources, I shall draw up, within the framework of the international right of asylum, the country-related asylum policy. I refer to the information on the overall security situation, the position of specific groups and the role of relevant authorities in the country or parts of the country concerned. If the notice gives rise to a policy adjustment, a letter will follow to the House of Representatives, which I will then discuss with your Chamber. In the short term, I will receive the statement of office of Syria from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition to the country information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the IND uses country information from other sources and its own IND country reports in its daily decision-making practice. At my request, the ACVZ (Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs) advised in the report on the use of this country information in asylum practice. In the cabinet response of 2 July 2020, a comprehensive response was given to this opinion and I indicated what recommendations I follow in order to improve transparency, traceability and clarity with regard to the country information used in the IND. During the consultation with your Chamber on 24 September 2020 and in my subsequent letters to your Chamber of 18 November 2020 and 8 March 2021, I informed you in detail about the ACVZ opinion and the implementation of the related motion of Members Grotehuizen and Voordewind on peer review EASO and country information researchers of immigration services from other EU Member States. I can also tell you that the IND has now followed up all the promised measures. Now to the policy for Syrian foreigners in the Netherlands, and then to the developments in Denmark. The current country-based asylum policy for Syria is based on the assumption that people from Syria returning from abroad are at real risk of serious harm. This means that an asylum seeker from Syria in the Netherlands is generally granted an asylum permit. I therefore confirm that Mrs Van der Werf is not going back. Exception applies to the so-called 1Fs or active supporters of the Syrian regime. This Dutch policy is based in particular on the reports of the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The latest general statement by the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs of May 2020 shows that the overall security situation and human rights violations committed by the Syrian regime and other parties are entirely worrying. I am, of course, following the situation in Syria very closely. Whether the situation in Syria is safe enough to return is assessed by me on the basis of facts from objective sources about the situation there, including the ministry of Foreign Affairs. I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to prepare a new general report on the situation in Syria. The Foreign Office's statement is due before next summer. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has indicated that it will involve the Danish report on the situation in Syria in the preparation of the post. I give that answer to Mr Eerdmans and Mr Wiersma. On the basis of the facts in that letter of office, I will assess whether the asylum policy for Syria needs adjustments, but I am not getting ahead of that. I will then inform your Chamber as to whether there is any reason to change the asylum policy with regard to Syria. In assessing country policy, the policies of our neighbouring Member States are involved. The Dutch asylum policy for Syria is currently in line with the policies pursued by most of the other EU Member States. Denmark has adapted its country policy towards Syria, so much has become clear. A return risk as defined in Article 3 of the ECHR shall no longer be assumed for any Syrian alien. In the cases of Syrians from Denmark seeking asylum protection in the Netherlands, the procedures in force will be followed. In principle, this group is not eligible for stay in the Netherlands. These cases are transferred to the responsible Member State on the basis of the principle of interstate trust, which is Denmark. Like the Netherlands, Denmark is a member of the European Union and a party to the Refugee Convention and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the ECHR. On the basis of the principle of interstate trust, I can trust that Denmark will not return an asylum seeker to Syria without any assessment of whether this is contrary to any of the refoulement bans laid down in the aforementioned conventions. I am not aware of any specific facts and circumstances which would indicate that there are system-related shortcomings in the Danish asylum procedure. For example, if I point out shortcomings, they could be that in the Danish asylum procedure it would not be possible to determine carefully whether they actually run the risks mentioned in the Refugee Convention and the ECHR if they had to return to Syria. If an application for asylum is rejected, or if the authorisation previously granted is withdrawn, the applicant may appeal against that refusal or withdrawal in Denmark to the Refugee Appeals Board. That's Danish. By way of illustration, it can be noted that in a significant number of cases, the Refugee Appeals Board in Denmark considered that the withdrawal in the individual cases in question could not be maintained. If all national Danish remedies have been exhausted, a foreigner can still apply from Denmark to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, if he or she feels that Denmark has violated his or her human rights. This sufficiently guarantees a judicial check on asylum decisions within the Danish system. Within the normative frameworks of these conventions, Member States have the scope to weigh their own policy on the basis of the country information available to them. I would therefore be reluctant to appreciate the Danish policy choices and their appreciation by the Danish appeal bodies. I see no reason to assume that Denmark would no longer feel bound by the rights laid down in the above-mentioned conventions, namely the Refugee Convention and the ECHR. The role of the Netherlands as a Member State is therefore really different from the role of the European Commission, for example, because the European Commission is the guardian of the treaties, the guardian of the acquis. That is a different role from that of a fellow Member State. Within this division of roles, it is not appropriate for us to stand alongside the Commission and judge Denmark's policy choice, because, as I said, Member States have their own policy balance on the basis of the country information available to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u3	I would like to look at the Secretary of State for a more detailed explanation. It's finished now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u5	First, I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21 and then to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had the Secretary of State make a point in this block. I see a development here. I believe that the Secretary of State is right to point out that Denmark does not go beyond all kinds of unfair state situations in its actions. That gives me the impression that you are actually looking positively at the way in which Denmark operates. At least you're not strongly opposed to it. You want to have a look at it and let us know if that example can be followed in the Netherlands. Do you see, in view of the many parties on the right who support that feeling and say that you need to make haste with it, a chance to see as soon as possible whether the Netherlands is prepared to send people back from Syria if that is safe? Would you like to hurry with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u7	I hear various questions and comments from Mr Eerdmans. The question is, of course, whether we are interfering with the situation as described by Denmark and dealing with it. Whether that is also an action perspective for the Netherlands? We are based on the country report and that foreign affairs report is also taken into account the Danish situation and how they came to do so. Until then, the 2020 country report that we have in the Netherlands is valid. Until then, nothing changes. If Denmark believes that there is a different situation, it is Denmark's. The fact that the European Commission is taking action is because the European Commission is the guardian of the Treaties and believes that it should appeal to Denmark on this basis. The second part of Mr Eerdmans' question is, I understand, whether the Netherlands is going to send Syrians back to Syria. Did I get that correctly, Mr. Chairman? Was that the question? Then I come back to what I said: at the moment, the country report of 2020 is in force in the Netherlands. We're not sending Syrians back to Syria. We are waiting for the new country report and we will see what the outcome will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u8	I'm just trying to wait and see. Do you not think that this should be done as soon as possible? Nor do we have to wait months to see if the part of Syria I have argued for is safe. I think it makes sense for everyone to find out quickly. So my question is when you will come up with that new message saying whether or not we can send Syrians back to the safe parts of Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u9	I have said that the Foreign Office's report will be here before the summer and as soon as possible. For the summer is quite smooth. We have June and mid-July and then the summer begins. In about six or eight weeks' time we will have that country report, at least that is my estimate when I say: before the summer. It is incredibly important that we base ourselves on the data from all the sources used for this purpose. It can't be that I'm thinking personally, "Oh, it might be possible." I'm not an authority in that area. Those who know about it provide data. On that basis, the Foreign Office shall draw up this statement of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u10	It seemed that the Secretary of State was actually defending Danish policy. I understand that very well, because the attitude of this cabinet is that it is up to individual Member States to shape asylum policy. Moreover, Denmark also has an opt-out within the European Union on this issue, which is so important, which undermines the acceptance within Europe, but does not do so. The Secretary of State made procedural observations, but could she instead say what she thinks of Danish policy? I cannot escape the impression that the Secretary of State also has an opinion on what, for example, international human rights organisations indicate about Danish policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u11	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Kuzu that it seems as if I am defending Danish policy, far from me. I said that a country has its own national policy considerations, but abides by the treaties. That's what I'm looking at. I'm not going to land. If I take the measure of Denmark today or do not take the measure, another country is going to take the measure of me next time or not take the measure. It's not like that. We also have an interstate principle of trust in this respect. That's the first thing. Could you repeat the second part of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u12	What you think of the policy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u13	Yeah, what I think of the policy in Denmark. Actually, that's what I just said. We have the Refugee Convention, we have the ECHR and we have all the European treaties, in which Denmark has a special position. That's right. I admit that in the direction of Mr Kuzu. Nevertheless, country policy is something that a country itself can fill out on the basis of objective data provided for it. It may be that one country estimates the net slightly differently from the other. In the Netherlands we have the country reports, the foreign affairs reports. These are determined on the basis of a reasonable number of objective sources. We understand that in this case the Danish situation and what has brought Denmark to that policy is also involved by the Foreign Affairs Committee. Our country policy is based on these objective data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u14	My criticism is also not of the country policy of the Netherlands, because that just looks good. This is indeed based on many sources, which also clearly state that Syria is an unsafe country. At the same time, Denmark does not deviate a little from the country policy of the Netherlands. No, it is very different because it also clearly indicates that Syria is safe at the moment. As a result, hundreds of people are sent back, or at least there is a threat that they will have to go back to Syria, above the heads of many Syrian families. So that's not a minor deviation, it's a significant deviation. I would like to ask the Secretary of State why she cannot further underline the criticism of the Commissioner, Mrs Johansson. Why doesn't she force it instead of saying "yes, but I'm not going to criticize my colleague"? I think we do this enough often when it comes to Hungary or Poland, for example. Last week, during oral Question Time, we had another debate on the pushbacks of Croatia and other countries. We're allowed to criticize that, aren't we? The Secretary of State could be critical of that, couldn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u15	In my view, Mr Kuzu remembers very well that last week, in the debate on pushbacks, I said that what is happening there cannot be done. That's not good at all. We'll talk to the people about that. You can never compare two different things. It is quite clear that country policy is a matter that determines a country such as Denmark or any other country itself on the basis of the data I assume that these are objective data that that country has. I must also correct what Mr Kuzu said, namely that, according to Denmark, Syria is safe. No, Denmark says some parts of the country are safe. That is an assessment by Denmark, as the Netherlands is currently assessing that Syria is a country where we are not sending people back. We're waiting for the new assessment we're getting. I also talked extensively here last week about the pushbacks. I'm not going back to that. But here's the situation: we're waiting for a new message of office. The Netherlands says, and that is all that matters: Syrians we have in the Netherlands, who have applied for asylum in the Netherlands, are subject to country policy. That's what it's for. In 2020, we said in country policy that Syrians will not be returned. That is the situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u16	Your second interruption, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u17	Actually, I missed part of the answer. I asked the Secretary of State why she did not support Commissioner Johansson's criticism, rather than saying that Denmark itself is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u18	In the first part I said that the Commission is the guardian of the Treaties. From this position, which is to monitor the acquis communautaire of the European Union, Mrs Johansson, the European Commissioner, speaks to Denmark. That is not the position of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a fellow Member State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u19	I have two questions for the Secretary of State. Thank you for your previous answers. My first question is: do you know how many cases are currently under way in Denmark at the Refugee Appeals Board? How many Syrian refugees in total have been eligible for voluntary return in Denmark? I am very much looking for the relationship and how you see it in the context of the effectiveness of taking over this policy by the Netherlands. That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u20	I don't have that information here. However, I can tell Mrs Koekkoek that a total of 1,650 asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark last year. So that's all the asylum seekers who came. So I do not know how many Syrians that has been and how many asylum seekers from other countries. For comparison: in the Netherlands we are around 25,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thank you for this. I was looking for the relationship because I want to find out how effective Danish policy is, also because we as Member States still want to learn from each other and I am very curious whether the Netherlands intends to learn from Denmark in this case, of which I personally would not be in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u22	The Netherlands has its own country policy. We're gonna ask for that on a notice to the State Department. The information that the State Department uses is objective. All kinds of sources are used for this. As a result, the IND defines country policy. So I don't need Denmark for that. We do that ourselves, on the basis of our own information, which we get from the State Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u23	Your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u24	That is my second question: how does the message come about and what sources are used for it? One of my questions is whether the criticism of the European Commission, as guardian of the Treaty, as you yourself said, is being taken into account as one of the sources in our own Dutch message of office. Is the quantity of rejected cases in Denmark included as one of the sources in our notice of office?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u25	The report is about the survey of the situation in a country. It is about whether the situation is very bad or better, or what happens for terrible or not terrible in a country. Taking into account whether requests are allocated or rejected in another Member State does not seem to me to be an assessment of the situation in the country we are talking about, for example Syria. On the basis of objective sources, the ministry report looks at the situation there in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u26	I understand. My other question was: is the strong criticism of the European Commission as guardian of the Treaty also seen as one of the sources for the message from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u27	You are asking for the Commission's strong criticism as guardian of the Treaties in the notice of office. The post is about the situation in the country we're talking about. The European Commission's assessment of whether a country complies with the European Treaties is a different situation than the assessment of the situation in a country by objective sources consulted by Foreign Affairs. In this case, that of Syria and Denmark, Foreign Affairs has indicated that they are also going to consult the sources which have apparently been consulted by Denmark to see how they have come to do so and what they seem to have there for sources that we do not have. But you have to distinguish between two things: infringe the treaties and the objective assessment of a situation in a country by sources that deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u28	I wanted to return to the discussion the Secretary of State had with Mr Kuzu. It is not really a question of whether we are legally in a position to address Denmark on its policy, because I follow the Secretary of State, but of course the Secretary of State is free to have an opinion on what is happening in Denmark. What does she think of Danish policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u29	It is not quite clear to me what Mrs Ellemeet wants with my opinion on Danish policy. I have said that country policy is up to the country itself. The same applies to the Netherlands. Perhaps we will find something safe somewhere somewhere that can be anything, while another country does not find it at all. However, I would like to say again and again that, on the basis of objective sources, the Foreign Affairs Committee draws up a notice of office. That message of office is very important for the country policy pursued by the IND. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u30	I believe that the Secretary of State does not do justice to her own knowledge and information position. We have a lot of data and data. Fortunately, we are not the only country that collects that information either. We see a lot of information being collected in all kinds of European countries. We also see that all European Member States follow the same line and that Denmark is now derogating from it. Then it can't be that the Secretary of State claims that she can't make a judgment on that? It can have an opinion on the basis of all the information it has on the basis of international data, right? And I hope that is the same opinion as that of GroenLinks, namely that what Denmark is doing now is undesirable and inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u31	What is important is the situation in the Netherlands. The Netherlands does not do this. The Netherlands has the post of office of 2020 and we do not send Syrians back to Syria. I think that's the most important thing that's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u32	However, I find this disappointing, because we are part of the European Union together. The EU Commissioner has given her opinion and a reprimand to Denmark for a reason. We are even more open to it, and I think that is part of our responsibility to express our opinion on matters of concern to us. And that is also asylum and migration policy. We also do this in other areas. We express ourselves when there are abuses in other European countries. Why don't you do that here now? There are now people who are suffering from this policy in Denmark. I believe that we are free, even more so, to express our opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u33	I have said that the Foreign Affairs Committee is also involved in Denmark's report. I think that is important, because it also gives me the opportunity to hear from that letter of office on which Denmark has based its considerations in order to reach this decision. Then I can objectively establish that. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr Wiersma asked about making the situation clear by region in the post. If the security situation in the country and parts of the country gives rise to this, the report will certainly address the situation by region. The statement of office shall be drawn up on the basis of the information requirements of my Ministry. It will vary by country of origin, but for Syria I expect that distinction to be made by region. In the end, it is the responsibility of Foreign Affairs to arrive at an objective and factual country message. I'm now awaiting the official's notice. As I said, that will be before the summer. Mr Baudet and Mr Eerdmans asked that after five years of residence on the basis of a temporary authorisation, asylum status holders should no longer be granted an automatic permanent authorisation. I need to clear up a misunderstanding first. After five years, an indefinite licence does not automatically follow and certainly not naturalisation. A number of conditions must be met. They are assessed individually, on a case-by-case basis. An important condition in this context is that the obligation to integrate must also be met. It has been a conscious choice of the cabinet to give a foreigner, after five years of temporary and lawful residence, the opportunity to stay here permanently and thus provide security for the future. It is very important that a foreigner who is legally resident here for a long time should be given a perspective. These people, including families, can therefore trust that they can build up their lives in the Netherlands and contribute to Dutch society. This is governed by laws and other regulations and also has its basis in Union law. Mr Wiersma asked how the Syrian asylum applications had been reviewed by the IND and what that would mean for a possible re-evaluation if a policy change was decided on in respect of Syria. The IND test in asylum applications is always about a number of general aspects: identity, nationality and the possible applicability of Article 1F and security risks. It also examines whether another Member State is responsible for the Dublin Regulation, whether the person concerned is of another nationality and whether there is a possible safe third country. In the substantive test on Syrian asylum applications, the IND looks at the following aspects. It checks whether there are active supporters of the regime, as they are not eligible for authorisation under the policy. Individual motivations are asked to determine whether one is eligible for refugee status. This is the case, for example, with men of conscript age. If this is the case, so in those cases, there is no request for any other grounds. This also applies to any other A-ground for refugee status; even then there is no request for refugee status. If there is no A-ground to grant an asylum authorisation, in general in Syrian cases an asylum permit has been granted on the B-ground................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr Wiersma also had a question about the Becker motion on mini-Schengen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u36	The answer given by the Secretary of State does not exactly correspond to the image I get from the field, which shows that it is precisely not soon clear which status holders should return to the country of origin when the conflict is resolved and who is still entitled to asylum, for example because of sexual orientation or political activity in the country of origin. So I would like to ask you more specifically whether you can indicate how many of the Syrian status holders could return if they were no longer at risk because of the conflict and therefore are not themselves at risk of being prosecuted by the regime. How many are there? That's what my question is about getting a finer picture of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr Wiersma is asking for a quantitative number from me. I can tell you that this is not the way to keep track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u38	No, the question is also whether it could be in terms of information. If there is no number, but the information is there, then my question is answered. But if that information is not available, my question is how much time it will take to re-assess, for example, temporary Syrian status holders when the security situation in the country changes. What we are looking for is, of course, that you immediately have as good a picture as possible in the event of a new influx, so that you do not have to do a whole re-evaluation procedure at a later date when that security situation changes. We are getting the signal from the field that further clarification and an extension are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u39	That indeed requires clarification and refinement. If you ask me whether you can do that today, the answer is: no, I cannot do that. That's not how it's kept. That is the situation, but I will certainly see if there are more possibilities to specify this better, because I see the importance of what Mr Wiersma is putting forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u40	Second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u41	Thank you. I see it as a commitment to better reflect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u42	As far as it's possible, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u43	Exactly. As far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u44	I was referring to Mr Wiersma's comment on the Becker motion on'mini-Schengen'. The Netherlands regularly consults with neighbouring countries and similar states, including Schengen. For example, the representatives of the Netherlands attended several consultations between Member States on internal border control. At present, there is broad agreement on the need to strengthen external borders and improve return. That is also in all the thoughts about the new migration pact. There will be a new Schengen strategy from the Commission. I hope, therefore, that I will be able to inform your Chamber further in the run-up to the forthcoming JHA Council. Mr Van Dijk refers to an article in the daily newspaper. I must say that I cannot verify the statements made by anonymous individual officials. However, it is extremely cynical to use human lives as a geopolitical tool. Unfortunately, that's something we've been seeing over the centuries. The developments over the past period on the three main migration routes, recently in Lampedusa and around the Spanish enclaves, reaffirm the importance, both at European and national level, of actively seeking and maintaining cooperation with the Mediterranean neighbours. As we all know, so do we. The Commission is engaged in intensive consultations with these countries. We must be realistic as a Union, but the Union is also cooperating with the Member States as much as possible. So they're working hard on that. Mrs Van der Werf asks whether the Netherlands is prepared to sign the declaration of 13 March by France and Germany, among others. That's how I understood her question. The statement of 13 March, mentioned by Mrs Van der Werf, concerns a much broader story than asylum policy or migration. The declaration is therefore more in the area of Foreign Affairs Ministers and Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. In her speech at an international EU and UN conference on the Syria region, which was held on 30 March last, Minister Kaag spoke in similar terms about the situation in Syria, but that speech was not specifically about the issue of migration that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u45	Just to be sure, I was eagerly reading back my questions, but that question was not asked by me. I think those were my colleague Ellemeet's. Just for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u46	Yes, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u47	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u48	It could have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u49	Could have, could have. Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Van der Werf, excuse me. But at least the question has been answered. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u50	And, to my satisfaction, it seems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u51	And now I am going to ask you very carefully: is it true that Mrs Van der Werf has asked what is the state of play in legal immigration measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u52	Yes, that was Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u53	Yes, that was Mrs. Van der Werf. The Cabinet underlines the need for broad, tailor-made partnerships with key countries of origin, transit and reception that have added value for both parties. In line with the Integrated Agenda on Migration, the Partnerships would include cooperation on: addressing root causes, irregular migration, tackling trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings, the deployment of border management, improving return cooperation with and support to reception countries, asylum seekers and refugees in need, and promoting legal migration routes with country and region-specific relevance. In the progress report on the integrated migration agenda, I informed your Chamber about the cabinet position. Measures outside the existing framework to further promote legal migration to the Netherlands are in the hands of the next cabinet, but it is clearly one of the issues addressed in the European Pact on Migration. So it's something we're all working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u54	An interruption by Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u55	I have a question. I hear the Secretary of State say that she wants to wait for the next country's report or an official report on this in six weeks or eight weeks or something like that and that Syria's status has so far been "unsafe'. But the latter is really a political choice, because previous country reports already distinguish between different regions and some regions are declared safe. My question is: why does the Secretary of State make the political choice to declare Syria as a whole unsafe, while the posts so far have been much more nuanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u56	In the country policy that was put out in 2020, Syria is referred to as a country where we do not send people back. And I base myself on that. That's my perspective of action right now, and I'm waiting for the new one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u57	That's exactly not what I asked for. Why do you not look, as I say through the President, at the breakdown by regions? This is already being done in these country reports. A country which is indeed very large, which has been involved in a civil war and where it was restless in parts of it, you do not have to regard it as one country in this respect? You can say that a large part is safe, but not another part? That's a political choice, isn't it? Isn't that something you can shift off to civil servants or others who make that report? That report is nuanced enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u58	I always base myself on the foreign affairs reports and the information we get about them. The report, country policy 2020, reports that Syria is unsafe. We're not sending people back to Syria. This is objectively stated in the information we have received from the Foreign Office. That's what we've been given. A next fact will come before the summer, if I have a new message of office, but until then, I will be working with the message of office from 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u59	I'll try again. It is a political choice to talk about a country, to say that the whole country is binary or not safe. You're gonna split it up, you're gonna have a lot more options to send people back. Can you at least ensure that this distinction is made in the country report which comes in four, six or eight weeks' time? Then you don't have to come to one binary choice -- Syria safe? Yes/no: safe/unsafe for all those regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u60	Foreign Affairs is looking specifically at the situation that has now been assessed by Denmark. What they are basing it on is that it is to certain regions which I understand is taken into account in the statement of office of Foreign Affairs. I believe that a distinction is made between parts, provinces or areas in the country. That's where I'm heading. And by the way, if Mr Baudet had the suggestion that we never do this: there are some countries, for example Afghanistan, with which we do. But as far as Syria is concerned, the conclusion so far, on the objective data we have, is that Syria as a whole is not a country where we are sending people back. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u61	Yeah, and that's the wrong conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u62	I want to focus on this, because I asked a question about this too. I just understood that the Secretary of State said in reply to my question: we are also trying to have as clear a picture as possible of regions. This is indeed common practice in the notice, and this can therefore also be involved in the assessment. So I understand that the next post is indeed looking at an even more finer picture, not of Syria as a whole, but of specific regions within Syria, so that we can therefore take a better picture into account in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u63	Whether the Foreign Office's statement, or so to speak, has the map of Syria in front of it and assesses each individual region and province separately? I cannot tell Mr Wiersma that this is how it happens. What I can imagine is that the Foreign Office, based on the data, the objective data they have received, says: Region X is safe, region Y is safe, but not... I don't know how many regions Syria knows, but if it knows 55, I don't think they all go off, one at a time. Okay? Then Mr Wiersma and I understood each other very well, and then I think it is clear to Mr Baudet as well. Then a question has been asked by Mrs Koekkoek about the Terms of Reference: are they made public? When the notice is published, the underlying Terms of Reference shall also be made public. A question from Mrs Koekkoek was also: does the report address the position of children? The answer to that is yes. The statement of office shall be drawn up on the basis of the information requirements of my Ministry. The so-called Terms of Reference, which are the basis of the post, also raises questions about the position of children, for example about recruitment, about education, about documents and that sort of thing. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to arrive at an objective, factually-based country report. And I am now awaiting it, as I have already said, from the post, which will appear before the summer. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u64	Let me just look at the Members, see if there is a need for a second term. Yeah? I had a hunch. But Mr Markuszower also needs an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yeah, and I'd like a second term, too, so I can file motions. I had first put this question to the VVD Group, but also to the Secretary of State. I understand that the Secretary of State does not want to do anything about all those Syrians who are here in the Netherlands, and is waiting quietly for a new message of office, which will certainly say that the Secretary of State does not have to do anything about all those Syrians in the Netherlands. But we also have a number of Syrians in the Netherlands who are terrorists, or who are spies, or who are rapists. Can the Secretary of State at least make an exception for that category? Again, as far as we are concerned, all those Syrians can leave, but can the Secretary of State at least send terrorists, who are simply a danger to Dutch society, to Syria, or anywhere else, or at least leave the Netherlands? We think: just go back to Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u66	First of all, in reply to Mr Markuszower: 1Fers and people who have held positions of this kind for very different reasons are looked at very thoroughly. And we need to be able to recognise in good time whether or not such a person can obtain a residence permit if there are reasonable grounds for doing so. This is happening throughout the asylum process. And if that is the case, if there is information available about it, or if any information will be available later on that someone can, for example, be called 1F against it, then a further investigation will be carried out. And if that is indeed the case, if there is indeed a 1F in force, then either an authorisation is granted or an authorisation is withdrawn. This applies in general to all applicants for asylum, but that also applies to Syrians. The important question asked by Mr Markuszower is whether we can then send someone back. The answer is: that is the intention, but we often run into Article 3 of the ECHR. I think Mr Markuszower knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u67	Of course, you can just quit that ECHR, can't you? A word about that first part of the State Secretary's reply: I think we're talking a little bit past each other. Because, of course, there are terrorists that we have let in or maybe we look closely at people and we don't let people who have a certain status in. That's how I understood the Secretary of State's answer. But I am also talking about Syrians who are already in the Netherlands, who live under the State Secretary's residence permit and who have committed attacks here in the Netherlands. We have Malek F., who stabbed three people in The Hague with a knife. We have Osama I., a Syrian status holder who committed a double homicide. We have, of course, in my view, a court case there today about a terrorist who has committed several attacks on the Jewish, kosher restaurant HaCarmel. We have Ahmed al-K. in the Zeeland Chapelle: also a terrorist. So we have people here in the Netherlands who are already terrorists and who have already committed attacks here. At least they can get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u68	There are laws and regulations for this too. It contains precisely the measures of punishment: the measure of punishment, etc., and the offences that can be withdrawn. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you. Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u70	That's not gonna happen. Then I have one specific question: how many terrorists of Syrian origin have been sent back? The Secretary of State just said that's what's happening. Then I ask: how many times has that happened in the last six years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u71	That is information that we are very careful with and we prefer not to give. It is not in the hundreds or thousands at all, but it is in a limited number of cases. They can then be traced back to persons. We're not giving it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the Secretary of State's first term. I have seen that there is a need for a second term. Mr Baudet needs a little more time for his administration, so first of all I would like to give the floor to Mr Kuzu for his second term. Well, at least we can keep going. After Mr Kuzu I give the floor to Mr Baudet. Sorry, Mr. Kuzu, Mr. Baudet is just in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u73	But I'm willing to trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u74	Well, no, Mr Baudet is just in time. Let us do it in the right order, thanks to Mr Kuzu for his flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u75	A miracle of flexibility. The Secretary of State says we could have a relationship. That, too. It's a latting relationship. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Denmark has recently planned to return Syrian asylum seekers to the parts of Syria which have declared it safe, namely Damascus and its surrounding areas;]] [[noting that the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs has consistently declared, in several country reports, exactly the same areas safe;]] [[Considering that the Netherlands is facing similar integration problems as Denmark, due to the massive influx of Syrian asylum seekers since 2015;]] [[calls on the government to join forces with Denmark and to look proactively at the possibilities of achieving a safe return of Syrians to the Netherlands as soon as possible, and in good cooperation with each other,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2727]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u76	Then I have more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum seekers who are granted a temporary residence permit for any reason will receive a Dutch passport after five years in 97% of cases;]] [[whereas it is undesirable that people we temporarily receive here should automatically be able to stay in the Netherlands forever after only five years;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that asylum seekers who cannot return home after five years receive a temporary residence permit again instead of a permanent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the situation has been safe and stable for a long time in large parts of Syria;]] [[Considering that the Syrian Government has repeatedly invited Syrian refugees to return;]] [[Whereas Syrian refugees in Syria are urgently needed to rebuild their country;]] [[Considering that several EU countries, such as Denmark and Poland, have already sent a delegation to Damascus to see how best to achieve a return of Syrians;]] [[calls on the Government to send a Dutch delegation to Damascus to reach a return policy in consultation with the Syrian Government, excluding or paying off rare cases of possible criminal prosecution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2728]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2729]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u77	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the country report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has declared Syria as a whole unsafe;]] [[calls on the government, like Denmark, to assess by region whether or not it is safe rather than merely as a country as a whole,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2730]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u78	I'm sorry, but thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Chamber for this debate which I requested two weeks ago. I'm very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u79	Look, that's what we like to hear. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you, Mr President. The DENK Group broadly agrees with the policy of this Secretary of State when it comes to Syria. We're not sending people back to Syria, at least not until the next country report. I am already holding my heart, but if all objective data are indeed collected, I think there can only be one outcome, looking at the situation now. And that is that Syria is not safe. Mr. Chairman. There are two motions from the group of DENK. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Danish Government has partially declared Syria "safe" and intends to return Syrian refugees to Syria;]] [[Whereas numerous international organisations and human rights organisations indicate that Syria is not safe;]] [[Considering that returned Syrians have been identified by the Assad regime as traitors and are involved in torture and abuse;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to convey to its Danish counterpart that the Netherlands condemns the Danish attitude towards the plan to send Syrians back, and to obtain support for this position at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Simons, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2731]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the Secretary of State's argument not to do so, I would like to remind her that the Dutch Government has criticised Malta's position, Hungary's position, on Poland's position. So we do, and this Secretary of State could do the same. Then there's my second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas numerous international organisations and human rights organisations indicate that Syria is not safe;]] [[Considering that returned Syrians have been identified by the Assad regime as traitors and are involved in torture and abuse;]] [[Whereas Assad is a criminal and murderous dictator;]] [[declares that Syria is not a safe country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2732]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answers. Good to know that at least within six weeks there will be clarity from the cabinet about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u84	I hear the Secretary of State say about six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u85	Oh. And now I hear eight weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u86	Before the summer, she indicates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u87	That summer can wait a little while, if I look out like that. Actually, before July 10th? Let's say something like that; I have that impression. Anyway, we would like to thank her for that. However, I still have two requests to pass on to the Secretary of State, to the Cabinet. Hopefully they'll be supported by the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of sound research, Denmark considers parts of Syria to be safe;]] [[noting that this allows Denmark not to renew Syrian asylum seekers' residence permits but to use them on return;]] [[having noted that in the Netherlands there are almost 50,000 Syrians with a fixed-term asylum permit, of whom more than 17,000 are entitled to an indefinite residence permit within one year;]] [[Whereas, in this context, it is desirable and urgent that Syrians return to their own countries in the Netherlands as soon as possible;]] [[noting that Danish policy is taken into account only as one of many sources in the preparation of the new report on the situation in Syria;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to engage with her Danish colleague as soon as possible in order to learn from the Danish assessment of the security situation in Syrian regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2733]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u88	The second motion concerns the granting of asylum permits for an indefinite period. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nearly 50,000 Syrians currently have a fixed-term residence permit in the Netherlands;]] [[having noted that more than 17,000 of them are entitled to an indefinite residence permit within one year;]] [[Considering that, on the basis of sound research, Denmark considers parts of Syria to be safe and, in that context, does not extend temporary residence permits for Syrians, but instead focuses on return;]] [[Whereas the security of (parts of) Syria has also resulted in the loss of the asylum ground for Syrians in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas the Netherlands should follow the Danish example;]] [[calls on the Government to stop granting residence permits for an indefinite period to Syrians,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2734]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV. Will you hand over your motions, Mr. Eerdmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for replying and for honesty. It was clear: we are not going to send Syrians back. The answer was clear and honest: nothing is actually going to happen. The VVD made some noise and said that it has to happen anyway, but it doesn't, so nothing's gonna happen. Everything stays a bit the way it was. There will be a new message of office, a new country message, and it is likely that in the future the Secretary of State will continue to grant residence permits to Syrians and also Dutch passports in the long term. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Denmark considers Syria to be safe and intends to return Syrian asylum seekers to their homes;]] [[considers that Syrian asylum seekers in the Netherlands should and can return to their own country;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the temporary residence permits of Syrians residing in the Netherlands, to send these people back to Syria and to close the borders for all asylum seekers and for all migrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2735]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u91	That was in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u92	Sure, very neat, thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr President, thank you. I have one motion; I'll get to that in a minute. Apart from that, I think that this debate has at least resulted in us knowing that the country report is coming and that we also know what specific points from the Chamber are important for this. A large part of the Chamber has referred to the regional information, so hopefully we will find it in that message. Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower mentioned something of noise I had made. I also made a motion for a resolution. I'm going to read it to you now. I'm already hearing appreciation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that persons with temporary residence status must return asylum to their country of origin if this has been declared safe for them;]] [[Considering that, in order to withdraw or not renew the asylum authorisation, it should be clear whether the country is safe for an individual, but that a rapid assessment when granting asylum status does not always make it fully clear on which grounds an asylum status should be granted;]] [[Whereas this method contributes to the effectiveness of granting asylum status but requires a more time-intensive assessment if return is possible;]] [[calls on the Government to work out whether and how a more comprehensive assessment can initially contribute to smooth return when the country of origin is declared safe and what its disadvantages are, and to reflect on the following country policy in Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2736]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u94	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u95	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the Secretary of State for her answers. I continue to find it very disappointing that she does not want to comment on the situation in Denmark. I think she has every opportunity to do so and she has all the knowledge and information to do so. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mr Kuzu's motion. I will also endorse Mrs Koekkoek's motion, which deals more with the position of children and how we can better take that into account in a general sense, not only in relation to Syria. However, I would like to conclude with a kind of expression of sadness that we need to have this debate and that we are talking in this way about vulnerable groups that we have included in the Netherlands because there is no alternative. I also very much agree with Mrs Simons. We've got to keep our course. We must stay close to ourselves when it comes to the values we stand for in the Netherlands. We must remain united. We need to stay inviting to those people who need us very much. GroenLinks will continue to stand for this in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u97	I also heard this story from GroenLinks in the first term. You are very merciful about the arrival of people from faraway places, but what I never hear about is about the pressure that this puts on the Netherlands. It is very easy to say: we should welcome everyone, because that is very supportive of the rest of the world. But where is the concern of GroenLinks, and of your constituents, by the way, for the big cities, to name but a few, who see people coming here with a one-way ticket from Syria, getting into welfare, just sitting in a disadvantaged area, barely getting out of their homes, having no work, not going to school and barely integrating? Where is GroenLinks' concern when it comes to this? Is that what you're for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u98	A new party in the Chamber. I would like to say 'a new sound', but it is not a new sound, because the sound fits very well with the parties on the right of this Chamber: magnifying, ridiculing situations, taking facts out of context. It is very clear what GroenLinks stands for: where possible shelter in the region, where necessary shelter in our country and always keep an eye on all residents, including the Dutch. This also means that the right-wing policy should be changed when it comes to housing, housing for everyone and support where it is necessary for people to be able to work. We must guide everyone, whether you are from abroad and have the right to stay here, or whether you were born in the Netherlands. That's the point. And let me tell you something. It's possible. It can be done if we make the right political choices, so let's not let all those listeners here be fooled: it can be done differently. Those possibilities are there. It's just about political choices. That's where we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u99	It is very typical that you are saying this now in response to a question from JA21, while for the rest you are always chasing after Mrs Simons and playing the holy Samaritan here, while this is precisely the concern of many people. We always have to throw in a disclaimer. And 'we', indeed, I say on behalf of the parties on the right of JA21. We must always lay down the disclaimer that we love the whole world, but that we do so in order to reduce the pressure here on the Dutch rule of law on our solidarity in the Netherlands. We always have to say that. But you're always such a nice freeshopper, keeping the story that everyone's welcome. You will only respond when I ask GroenLinks what it does with solidarity among the Dutch if we keep the borders open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. Right neoliberal policy of the past few years has destroyed a lot in the Netherlands, not only for people who fled war and violence, but also for people who were born here. We should do something about that and it will benefit all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Werf van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her answer to the most important question I believe, namely: has it really become safe in Syria at this time? It's not that. That is also why we are not sending people back to Syria. That was a very clear statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you. I see that Mrs Simons from BET1 is not in the Chamber. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA. The messengers are very fast with the cleaning; that is really fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I have one more motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that a country's own population should return when possible, so that it can be rebuilt;]] [[noting that the principle of non-refoulement states that people are not returned to unsafe areas and that therefore status holders are forced to remain in the Netherlands and to build a life here;]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of the Netherlands and the status holder that the competences and talents they bring with them be used;]] [[calls on the government to identify and, where possible, remove bottlenecks in the integration of status holders so that competences of status holders acquired elsewhere can be used in Dutch society, and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2737]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been a great deal here today about a post coming up. An official message is as good as the sources that have been consulted and the research questions that have been asked. Previously, organisations such as UNICEF Netherlands have indicated that child-specific questions are not sufficiently asked in previous Terms of Reference. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that UNICEF Netherlands states that the general messages of office do not pay sufficient attention to the specific situation of children;]] [[Whereas up-to-date knowledge of child-specific circumstances in a country, and in particular of the Child Protection System, is necessary to be able to decide whether a child could return safely and responsibly;]] [[calls on the Government to include full and up-to-date information on the situation of children and vulnerable groups, including information on the Child Protection System, in accordance with UNICEF's Child Notice methodology,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2738]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. The Secretary of State has indicated that she needs about seven minutes to give the motions an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u109	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for her appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the Baudet motion on item No. 2727 on Denmark. Unfortunately, I have to discourage them, because I have explained how I operate. I'm judging on the basis of the notice. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The second motion by Mr Baudet in part No. 2728 no longer requests automatic permanent authorisation after five years of residence with a temporary authorisation. I've got to get out of the way of a misunderstanding first. After five years, an indefinite permit does not automatically follow, even for naturalisation. A number of conditions will have to be met. They are assessed individually on a case-by-case basis. I refer to what I said in the debate. But I must advise against that motion. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. 2729. At the moment, the return of Syrians from the Netherlands is not on the agenda. For that reason alone, the mission to arrange return is not on the agenda. So I'm also gonna have to discourage that motion. Then there is Mr Baudet's fourth motion on item No. 2730. I also refer to the answer I gave to Mr Wiersma in the debate. The general policy assessment shall be carried out on the basis of the notice of office. I must therefore discourage the motion as put forward by Mr Baudet. I'm not getting ahead of the notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u111	I have a question for you anyway. The message of office is now being drawn up. Can the Secretary of State then read the motion in such a way that it makes the request to its officials who are in the process of sending that message of office to really identify very clearly the situation in each region, i.e. not to arrive at a judgment on Syria whether it is safe or not, but whether it is safe or not for each region?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u112	I have just said in the debate in response to an interruption by Mr Wiersma: if your idea is that Syria has 55 regions, I shall just mention what is called'something' and that each of them is marked with 'yes' or 'no', then that is not the intention. What does happen, and what is a very normal way of doing things, is that it is put in a post: the country itself is unsafe, but region x is safe. I gave that answer to Mr Wiersma. That answer is the usual practice in office messages, so I have nothing to add to that. But your question and your motion are as follows: all regions must be checked separately. I must advise against that, because that is not the issue. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu's motion for a resolution 2731 calls for a condemnation of Danish policy. In the first period, I indicated that it is not up to the Netherlands and therefore not for me to judge it. There is an orderly course of justice possible in Denmark. That's the route. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. Mr Kuzu's second motion for a resolution (Doc. 2732 is a speech-exmotion, so it's not up to the cabinet. Then there is Mr Eerdmans' motion for a resolution. 2733. I should also advise against this, because the Foreign Office will involve the Danish report in the drafting of the report. That seems to me to be the pure route. On that basis, I will judge. The Eerdmans motion in part No. 2734 states that I have to stop granting permanent permits. I must also discourage them, because as long as the policy is as it is now, people can obtain an indefinite permit if they meet the conditions. But it's not automatism. It is necessary to assess individually whether someone meets the conditions. I am not ahead of any new policy. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion, too. The Markuszower motion in part No. 2735 says I have to withdraw the temporary permits and close the borders. As far as the latter is concerned, Mr Markuszower knows the government's view on closing the borders. It can't be. We don't. As for the withdrawal of the temporary permits, I am making my policy assessment on the basis of the foreign minister's statement. I'm not getting ahead of myself, so I'm gonna have to discourage that motion. Then there is Mr Wiersma's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr Markuszower has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u114	Of course, closing the borders is possible. When things got a little tricky with corona, we did, too, so it's okay. It's a matter of not wanting to. I hope the Secretary of State agrees with me. I'd like to hear her opinion on that. The second point is the same. That's similar to that. Perhaps not on the basis of a notice of office, but if the Secretary of State really wants, residence permits can be withdrawn for a certain period of time. It would be nice if the Secretary of State were just honest about that and said: we do not want to do that; we would like to keep those Syrians here. Maybe the Secretary of State can change her answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u115	I think I went into that to a large extent during this debate. I have no need to go into that further. Then there is Mr Wiersma's motion. Perhaps there is a slight misunderstanding, so I would like to say very clearly that anyone who reports to the IND for asylum, from Syria or from any nationality is assessed individually. It is not so that it is said: someone comes from Syria, then he gets a permit. That's not how it works at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u116	In cabinet vocabulary, I hear "we're doing it" all the time. Well, then it's okay to ask as a Chamber, so I'm gonna do that here. Because there is, of course, still a difference between just a careful and individual assessment and collecting all that information at the time of that assessment, so that you do not need a re-evaluation later, when the security situation changes in Syria, and so much more time. We are getting signals that sometimes there is light in between and that you could have a good look at whether that is complete. If the Secretary of State says "it is," I'd say that the investigation was completed quickly and we can get an okay on that. Otherwise we will have another debate here in the Chamber: yes, we said it then, you said it was not. We'll just have a little kisses. So I'd say, if that's the case, then I think we've completed that investigation quickly. So my question is, can we do that quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u117	In his motion, Mr Wiersma asked the government to work out whether and how a more comprehensive assessment could initially contribute to a smooth return when the country of origin is declared safe. I'm just reading in there that people who report here seem to be labeled "to return it as soon as possible." That label does not have to be, because everyone is assessed very thoroughly individually. If a situation in a country is safe, then that means that those who come from that country and have asked for protection here can go back, must go back, if that protection is no longer necessary. They're getting word that they can return to that country. So from adding a separate tick of "as soon as it's okay with that country they have to go back" I say: that's the standing practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u118	Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u119	Of course, it started with me asking: can you indicate how many Syrian status holders would be able to return if they were no longer at risk of conflict and therefore are not at risk of being prosecuted by the regime? You said I didn't, maybe it's there, but I don't have it right now. You have just promised in the debate that you will put that together and send it to the Chamber. This question, this research is aimed at the following. Suppose it's someone who's running for war, but not so much from the regime, and who's not in danger of being prosecuted. In this procedure, do we have everything we need to do later, at a time when this finer picture of the countries is coming up that certain regions are safe, not to have to re-examine all the time? On the basis of this complete assessment in the first instance, we already have enough image to be able to act on. Our signals are that there may still be some profit to be made. I'd say, if the Secretary of State is so convinced that it isn't, okay, then so be it, then let's leave it to the Chamber. But I would hope that we could do another investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u120	In this respect, I must also point out to Mr Wiersma that even as he puts it, it is still possible for an individual asylum seeker to say: yes, but there are still other circumstances. So it comes with a repeated application for asylum. The information for a repeated asylum application may not be there at all in the first instance. This is without prejudice to the fact that this can still be done: a further procedure involving opposition, appeal and appeal, etc. In fact, I mention one repeated asylum application, but we see very often that there are several repeated asylum applications. In this respect, the IND is as careful as possible, as far as possible, in the individual assessment of asylum seekers. That's something I can vouch for. But we cannot prevent information from coming up and a repeated application for asylum being made when it appears that someone is being told 'you have to leave'. That's the legal system we're dealing with. So, unfortunately, I have to say to Mr Wiersma that I have the motion in part No. 2736 must be discouraged, because we are simply following this procedure. Then I have a motion from Mrs Kuik on part No. 2737 to identify the integration of the status holders. We are doing a great deal here. The Central Bureau of Statistics, the Central Planning Bureau and also the ACVZ map a lot. I must tell Mrs Kuik that this is the area of SZW's colleague. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I'm not going over this. It's really SZW. I regret to say that Mrs Koekkoek's motion on UNICEF's recommendations for the drafting of children's official messages is also to be discouraged, because a statement of office must be about the actual situation in the country. UNICEF's recommendations are more likely to play a role in policy-making. I find them less appropriate to a post of office, and for that reason, I advise against the motion. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-7.u121	That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, like the MPs and the viewers at home. We're going to vote on the motions next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. Then the debate on the European Summit begins.
