ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is a VSO Biotechnology and Gardening. The first speaker is Mrs Vestering of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cultivation of genetically modified crops in Europe is subject to strict rules and restrictions. It's different in North and South America. Among other things, genetically engineered soya is grown on a large scale for mainly animal feed. Of course, it's crazy to drag cattle feed halfway around the world, but there's another reason why we don't want to import this genetically engineered soy. The soya has been made resistant to three harmful agricultural poisons. In Europe, these genetically modified crops cannot be grown, but the EU is opening its borders to imports. The environment and the health of people and animals have checked, but also the farmers. While we are encouraging our farmers with the National Protein Strategy to grow local protein crops for animal feed, they are facing this cheap and harmful soy from America. And of course our farmers cannot compete against that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union has opened its borders to a new generation of genetically modified soya;]] [[Whereas this soya has been genetically made tolerant against a cocktail of various agricultural poisons, which will make it widely used in cultivation, with all its consequences for the environment and health;]] [[noting that the cultivation of genetically modified soya is prohibited within the EU, which should encourage Dutch farmers to grow their own protein crops with an uneven playing field;]] [[calls on the government to promote an import ban on genetically modified soya,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-375]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I know what the confusion was in. I was just talking about energy, and then, of course, you're gonna link it to power collars very quickly. I've only been here a few days, but I've already received a lot of emails from the horticulture sector, including the ODE rates that have risen. There are even gardeners who reverse previous sustainability measures and switch back to gas, because the costs for them would otherwise be too high. I am therefore also pleased that the Cabinet has reserved 25 million per year for 2021 and 2022 to address these problems. But can the Minister also indicate the state of play in the development of this compensation scheme? And how are the talks with the sector going right now? When can these companies claim these promised funds? Mr. Chairman. During the written round, the CDA drew attention to the strengthening of the European plant variety right. The Netherlands has a huge innovative processing sector, in which almost 12,000 people work. This sector accounts for more than EUR 3 billion in exports of seeds and young plants. There is enough reason to protect this sector from illegal products from countries outside the Netherlands. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to strengthen the plant variety right;]] [[considers that public authorities and growers should be able to act against illegal products from third countries;]] [[calls on the government to enforce and amend legislation, or identify improvements to this, as a priority with the European Commission and seek support from other European Member States, and report to the Court on progress by 1 July 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Boswijk, Mr Geurts, Mr Bishop, Mr Grinwis, Mr Van Campen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yes, Mr. Chairman. First, Mrs. Vestering's motion. It is true that we are actually trying to ensure that we follow much more the protein strategy, in any case national, but also European, which makes us much less dependent on proteins that come from far away. I fully support that. We must also ensure that we can produce those proteins on our own continent from many points of view. There are many possibilities for this, which I always advocate in Europe. Here we are talking specifically about the ban on imports of genetically modified soya. I am not entirely the one talking about import bans; that really is with the foreign trade colleague, and even VWS is involved in this. But I would like to turn it around and at least not wait until we have an import ban before we can do this kind of thing. We are turning it around: we are already taking steps to make our own proteins more attractive and more attractive than anything that comes from afar. In this way, we will ensure that we can have a full alternative. From this light, I must discourage this motion. I can see where the motion came from. By the way, the concept of "genetically manipulated soya" is somewhat broad. As Mrs Vestering may know, there are really things that can be improved, even within Europe. I am referring, for example, to the discussion about CRISPR-Cas, a technology which is very promising and which makes it possible to move towards fewer plant protection products. Mrs Bromet is already gone; I may not be allowed to use that word from her, but I will. I think there are still differences here between the Animal Party and me as to what products we are talking about. We are fully committed to the protein strategy as we formulated it ourselves. In the very big discussion, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	From the Party for Animals we can also call it agricultural poison. In the absence of Mrs Bromet, that is, as far as I am concerned, a good alternative to that other word. Of course, we have to work together on the plant protein transition, but I do miss the Minister's feeling that we are assisting the grower in, for example, the cultivation of soya, which is very difficult to achieve in a good way in the Netherlands. The Minister considers that unfair competition with illegal products from outside the EU. I call on her to stand alongside these growers and make efforts at EU level to ensure that this cannot be imported.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	A product is not illegal if it is allowed on this market. This is laid down in different requirements. But again, this is a matter of food safety and therefore of VWS. We are also looking at the scientific basis and whether they are products you should want here. This is a discussion that is taking place in the farmer-to-board strategy, including with the European Parliament. So it starts in different places. But that is without prejudice to the fact that we ourselves must ensure that we have our protein strategy in order and produce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mrs. Vestering, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	Yes, indeed, very briefly. This product must not be grown in Europe. If it's illegal, we can't make it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	Then we are going to have a whole discussion about when something is allowed or not. This is particularly true of the question of food safety. I often have discussions with you about plant protection products that are allowed elsewhere and not here. Then it's also about the residues. But again, I'm not going to have this discussion all over again. It is a subject that is also being discussed between the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission in the context of the farmer-to-border strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	Second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	Then there's the second motion. I can be brief about that: I can give them a Chamber of Appeal. I do have one more point: as of 1 July 2021, I cannot report very much, because the evaluation of the plant variety right is scheduled for 2022. I hope that Mr Boswijk and the other signatories will give me some more time to make this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	I see him nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	Yeah, so judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	This brings us to the end of this VSO. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'll suspend for a few moments. But I see that Mr Boswijk has one more comment. Excuse me, I'm finishing up too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	I had another question about the compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	I need to think. To be honest, I don't have a topical answer to that. I think I have just sent a letter to the Chamber in which I indicated what steps we are now taking under this compensation scheme. But I've got to get that out of my head. On the one hand, we are in the process of getting state aid to Europe technically. We are looking at an arrangement that is best suited to what we mean: the companies. We are also in close consultation with the sectors on what fits best. If Mr Boswijk wants it more concretely, then I really will have to check it out, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	In response to questions from the SGP, it says that the government is working on the scheme, but that is a fairly broad concept. I understand you don't have the answer right now. If we could get that a little more concrete, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	I understand just now that there's a letter coming from EZK. They're the leading party here, so to speak. It's coming soon, I'm told. As I said, in the meantime, we are just talking to the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you.
